No.1 article:
The Surging Coronavirus Finds a Federal Leadership Vacuum

The winter wave has been anticipated for months. Now that it’s here, health officials worry once again about strategy and supplies.

WASHINGTON — When senior Food and Drug Administration officials held their morning call one day this week, they received a sobering warning from the agency’s chief, Dr. Stephen M. Hahn, who had just gotten off the phone with the White House: Block out “all the craziness” afoot and stay focused on fighting the pandemic, he said.

There are plenty of distractions. President Trump is pushing to overturn the results of the election and his only public statements about the coronavirus in the last few days were to make clear his pique that good news about a vaccine had not come until after Election Day — even as the number of new daily infections on Wednesday topped 140,000, average daily deaths shot past the 1,000 mark, and Covid-19 hospitalizations hit a record high of 65,368.

Vice President Mike Pence canceled a vacation at the last minute as the virus numbers grew worse, but the White House coronavirus task force that he leads has been all but publicly silent. Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff who is infected with the virus, declared last month, “We are not going to control the pandemic,” and said the focus should instead be on the longer-term goals of developing vaccines and treatments.

Since then, the White House political director, Brian Jack, and two other White House aides have become the latest administration officials to test positive for the virus, people familiar with the diagnosis said on Wednesday.

The pandemic caught the nation flat-footed in March, but epidemiologists have been warning for months of a fall and winter wave as people are driven indoors, schools resume in-person classes and Americans grow tired of months of precautions. Yet shortages of personal protective equipment are back, especially among rural hospitals, nursing homes and private medical practices that lack access to the supply networks that serve larger hospital chains.

The Strategic National Stockpile, the nation’s emergency reserve, has only 115 million N95 masks, far short of the 300 million the administration had hoped to amass by winter, Rear Adm. John Polowczyk, who retired on Monday as the national supply chain commander, said in a recent interview, though he added that the government is continuing to expand its supplies of protective gear.

Dr. Shikha Gupta, the executive director of Get Us PPE, a volunteer effort that matches available supplies to health care providers, said 70 percent of those requesting help from the organization last month reported being completely out of some gear, especially masks, gloves and disinfecting wipes.

“Health care workers are exhausted and frustrated, and it’s really hard to believe that on Nov. 10, it feels very much like the middle of March all over again,” she said.

Governors are once again competing with one another and big hospital chains for scarce gear. Nursing homes are grappling with staff shortages, which have left hospitals unable to discharge patients to their care. In Wisconsin, the situation is so severe that health officials are mulling a plan to train family members of nursing home residents to fill in at facilities that lack enough workers.

“We’re throwing every idea that we can conceivably think of to the state, but we really need bold action from the federal government,” said John Sauer, the president of LeadingAge Wisconsin, an association that represents nonprofit nursing homes and long-term care facilities. “We can’t muddle through this on our own.”

The United States is on somewhat better footing now than in the earliest days of the pandemic. States and hospitals have their own stockpiles, and Admiral Polowczyk said the federal government had met its goal of acquiring 153,000 ventilators.

But as the country enters what may be the most intense stage of the pandemic yet, the Trump administration remains largely disengaged. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is trying to assume a leadership mantle, with the appointment of a coronavirus advisory board and a call for all Americans to wear masks, but until his inauguration on Jan. 20, he lacks the authority to mobilize a federal response.

“With 1,000 deaths per day, it’s like two jumbo jets dropping from the sky,” said Dr. Carlos del Rio, an infectious disease specialist at Emory University. “If every day, two jumbo jets would drop from the sky and kill everybody, don’t you think that everybody would be in a panic?”

A White House spokesman, Brian Morgenstern, said Mr. Trump and his administration “remain focused on saving lives,” citing their efforts to produce a vaccine and therapeutics. He added that the task force “is in constant contact with state and local officials” to provide help when needed.

But Mr. Trump is at war with his own health officials. He was furious after the drug maker Pfizer announced Monday that early clinical trial data suggested its coronavirus vaccine was more than 90 percent effective. In a conversation with Dr. Hahn, a senior administration official said, the president accused the company and the F.D.A. of conspiring to delay news that could have bolstered his chances of re-election.

Aides said the president believed that Pfizer could have announced the success of its clinical trial before Nov. 3 but deliberately chose to hold up the news, possibly not to taint the company’s vaccine as a last-minute effort to save Mr. Trump’s re-election bid. White House aides were particularly incensed that Mr. Biden publicly said his public health advisers knew of Pfizer’s results on Sunday, before aides said the news had reached the White House.

Beyond Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed, the federal bully pulpit — an essential component of an effective infectious disease response — has largely gone silent. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert, said in an interview on Tuesday that the vaccine would be “a game changer” over time.

But a vaccine is not an immediate panacea, and until doses become widely available — likely in mid-2021 — the nation is in a “difficult situation,” he said, that calls for Americans to wear masks and social distance, and to avoid crowded settings, particularly indoors.

“My message to the American public is: Hang on, help is coming, a vaccine is on its way, we need to all pull together,” Dr. Fauci said.

Washington’s leadership void is raising anxiety in states and cities.

In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Wednesday that private indoor gatherings statewide would be limited to 10 people and that gyms, bars and restaurants must close each night at 10.

In Ohio, Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, announced a series of new measures, including one that escalated the state’s mask order by threatening to temporarily shut down retailers that fail to comply and another that demanded that private celebrants at events like weddings wear masks and refrain from dancing and games. He said the state would consider new restrictions on bars and restaurants a week from Thursday.

“Wear a mask,” he implored on Wednesday in an address to the state. “Wear a mask, so that your friends, neighbors and family members might live.”

In North Dakota, Gov. Doug Burgum said this week that the state’s hospitals were full and that even health workers who test positive for the virus but do not display symptoms would be allowed to work in wards dedicated to coronavirus patients.

Local officials say they feel as if they are struggling alone. New weekly cases among nursing home residents jumped fourfold from the end of May to late October, and deaths have more than doubled in 20 states, according to R. Tamara Konetzka and Rebecca J. Gorges, researchers at the University of Chicago who analyzed data from the C.D.C.

“The depressing message is that nothing much has changed since the spring,” Professor Konetzka said.

Even many large hospital chains, which say they have adequate supplies of medical gear, continue to operate in crisis mode. That often means requiring employees to repeatedly reuse respirator masks that are meant to be discarded after each use.

Deborah Burger, a president of National Nurses United, the largest organization of registered nurses, said the lack of clear guidance from the C.D.C. had allowed hospitals to create their own standards for reusing disposable protective gear, which she said put hospital workers and patients at increased risk of infection.

“We’re 11 months into the pandemic, and the administration is still not adequately addressing the safety of health care workers and the safety of our communities,” she said.

The White House has fixated on Operation Warp Speed, the administration’s crash vaccine and therapy development program, while its coronavirus task force has whittled down to rote weekly gatherings in the Situation Room. But far from celebrating the Pfizer news on Monday, the administration initiated a round of recriminations.

In a Twitter message on Monday, Mr. Trump said that Pfizer deliberately postponed announcing its good news, and that the F.D.A. had supported that delay.

In a meeting of the coronavirus task force on Monday afternoon, the health secretary, Alex M. Azar II, confronted Dr. Hahn about the Pfizer announcement and said the F.D.A.’s coordination with Pfizer and its exhaustive vaccine guidelines had delayed the news of the breakthrough, according to senior administration officials who witnessed the exchange.

He questioned Dr. Hahn’s timeline for an emergency authorization of Pfizer’s vaccine.

The president’s allies suspected that Pfizer could have obtained results from its trial earlier, but chose not to. Pfizer had in fact initially planned to request seeing the results from an independent safety monitoring board once 32 of its clinical trial participants who had received either the vaccine or a placebo had come down with Covid-19. That would have been the company’s first barometer of its effectiveness.

But weeks ago, Pfizer officials said, F.D.A. regulators had advised that they would be unlikely to issue an emergency use authorization for Pfizer’s vaccine based on just 32 cases in a trial with nearly 44,000 people.

Pfizer decided to wait for more cases. By last weekend, 94 subjects had tested positive for Covid-19, a sample seemingly more than sufficient to satisfy the F.D.A. The company said an early analysis showed the vaccine was more than 90 percent effective.

Pfizer has said it expects to apply for emergency use authorization by late November, and experts expect the F.D.A. to decide as early as mid-December. But Pfizer has said it has manufactured only a few million doses, and experts are hoping the government can step in to help speed up manufacturing. A second vaccine maker, Moderna, could soon seek F.D.A.’s review of its clinical trial results.

On Monday, the F.D.A. granted emergency authorization to Eli Lilly for an antibody treatment similar to a therapy given to Mr. Trump shortly after he contracted the coronavirus. The company has a limited number of doses and the treatment is only authorized for newly infected patients who have not been hospitalized.

Some in the agency took Dr. Hahn’s Tuesday warning to his senior staff members about “craziness” afoot as a sign that the president might fire him. Others said the commissioner was merely acknowledging the obvious: The postelection period will be rocky.





No.2 article:
Trump Stacks the Pentagon and Intel Agencies With Loyalists. To What End?

So far, there is no evidence the appointees harbor a secret agenda or arrived with an action plan. But their sudden appearance amounts to a purge of the Pentagon’s top civilian hierarchy without recent precedent.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s abrupt installation of a group of hard-line loyalists into senior jobs at the Pentagon has elevated officials who have pushed for more aggressive actions against Iran and for an imminent withdrawal of all American forces from Afghanistan over the objections of the military.

Mr. Trump made the appointments of four top Pentagon officials, including a new acting defense secretary, this week, leaving civilian and military officials to interpret whether this indicated a change in approach in the final two months of his presidency.

At the same time, Mr. Trump named Michael Ellis as a general counsel at the National Security Agency over the objections of the director, Gen. Paul M. Nakasone.

There is no evidence so far that these new appointees harbor a secret agenda on Iran or have taken up their posts with an action plan in hand. But their sudden appearance has been a purge of the Pentagon’s top civilian hierarchy without recent precedent.

Administration officials said the appointments were partly about Afghanistan, where the president has been frustrated by what he sees as a military moving too slowly to fulfill his promise that all American troops will be home by Christmas. The Pentagon announced on Wednesday that Douglas Macgregor, a retired Army colonel and fierce proponent of ending American involvement in Afghanistan, would serve as a senior adviser.

The hires come as Mr. Trump and some of his aides have been pressing to declassify documents that would describe sources of information inside the Kremlin. The president’s advocates have long argued that these could prove that four years of allegations about the 2016 actions by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in support of Mr. Trump’s candidacy were a hoax, despite the fact that Mr. Trump’s Justice Department has indicted Russian military intelligence officers.

Administration officials said that Gina Haspel, the director of the C.I.A., could be next on Mr. Trump’s list of dismissals because of her long-running effort to keep classified a series of documents on the agency’s information inside the Kremlin. Among her biggest recent critics is Donald Trump Jr.

Most of the officials and former officials interviewed over the past day agreed that there was a large element of score-settling and attention-grabbing by Mr. Trump and his aides as they have defied calls to concede to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Kashyap Patel, Anthony J. Tata and Ezra Cohen-Watnick — three aides whose promotions were announced in a Pentagon statement on Tuesday — are viewed as highly ideological Trump foot soldiers. Mr. Patel has a long history of trying to discredit the investigations into Russian interference, Mr. Tata’s nomination was withdrawn over the summer in part because he had called President Barack Obama a “terrorist leader,” and Mr. Cohen-Watnick was quietly eased out of the National Security Council in 2017 after clashes with Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, then the national security adviser.

The three are not believed to have the stature to bully Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the head of the military’s Central Command, into initiating operations, whether overt or secret, against Iran or other adversaries during the final days of Mr. Trump’s presidency.

And a senior official close to Christopher C. Miller, the new acting defense secretary appointed on Monday, said that it was clear from Mr. Miller’s meetings with Mr. Trump that the president has deep reluctance in launching offensive military operations as his time in office nears an end. That is not what his political base seeks, and it runs counter to Mr. Trump’s calls to get troops out of so-called forever wars in places like Afghanistan and Iraq.

During a meeting at the White House, Mr. Trump’s message to Mr. Miller, the official said, was to do nothing new or provocative.

When jobs open in the last days of an administration, they are usually filled by deputies, whose only charge is to keep the wheels of government turning at least until Inauguration Day.

It was a sign of the changed atmosphere that when James H. Anderson, an expert on military strategy and missile defense, left the Pentagon after being fired from the No. 3 position — acting under secretary for policy — he was “clapped out,” or applauded by officials lining the halls. A report on Twitter by William Kristol, the conservative commentator who has opposed Mr. Trump, said the White House sought the “names of any political appointees who joined in so they could be fired.”

It is possible, some officials say, that what is happening is no more than résumé padding, allowing some of Mr. Trump’s loyalists to claim they held top posts, albeit briefly, or to cement some policy changes before Mr. Biden can take office and seek to reverse them.

Several current and former Pentagon and administration officials expressed concern that the shake-up could usher in a period of instability and possibly even overseas adventurism. But others offered a more prosaic interpretation of some of the events this week.

“I’m only 2-on-a-scale-of-10 concerned,” said Kori Schake, who directs foreign and military policy studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute and served in the Pentagon under President George W. Bush. “It looks like the last gasp of vengefulness and cronyism from an administration that has always preferred unctuousness to qualifications.”

In his final weeks as president, Mr. Trump faces a series of decisions that could shape his legacy in national security. He must decide whether to leave Iran with far more nuclear material than it possessed when he entered office, a direct result of his decision to pull out of the 2015 nuclear deal that Mr. Biden has said he would seek to rejoin. Similarly, Mr. Trump confronts the likelihood that he will leave his successor with a North Korea armed with more nuclear weapons than it had before multiple summit meetings with the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and a China that is more expansionist, and more dismissive of legal constraints, than ever before.

Iran could also test the departing president. But if there are provocations, Mr. Miller, the new acting defense secretary, best knows one response: counterterrorism strikes. Mr. Miller, a career Army Special Forces officer who held counterterrorism staff jobs on the National Security Council and at the Pentagon this year before Mr. Trump tapped him to lead the National Counterterrorism Center in August, is facing a daunting challenge in assuming the helm of the Pentagon for which he has little training or experience at such a tumultuous moment.

Friends and colleagues say Mr. Miller is not an ideologue, but rather a career soldier and creative, unconventional thinker who impressed Mr. Trump and top White House officials with his deft handling of a portfolio at the National Security Council that centered on counterterrorism and hostage issues. On Mr. Miller’s watch at the council, a U.S. commando raid in October 2019 in northwestern Syria killed the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

After a brief afternoon at the Pentagon following his appointment on Monday, Mr. Miller spent Tuesday in meetings, including a weekly coronavirus update teleconference with the military’s combatant commanders around the globe. He also met with service secretaries and received several briefings. On Wednesday, Veterans Day, Mr. Miller gave his first speech as acting secretary at the opening of a new Army museum.

Pentagon officials point to one source of continuity, saying that, for now, General Milley’s job as chairman seems secure, despite his public apology after joining Mr. Trump in walking across Lafayette Square in June during the protests in Washington.

Aides have told Mr. Trump that he would face stiff resistance from both Republicans and Democrats in Congress to firing General Milley, who is in the middle of a four-year term as the military’s top officer. After the dismissal of Mark T. Esper as defense secretary on Monday, General Milley convened the Joint Chiefs and gave them a steady-as-she goes message. He did the same on a conference call later with the combatant commanders.

It is not impossible that the shake-up of Pentagon personnel could presage some volatile and dangerous period, to include even overt or covert operations against adversaries like Iran. But the push for any attack against Iran, for instance, would seem to need the heft of much more seasoned cabinet officers, such as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

It is possible, however, that Israel could see the next 70 days as a window to conduct significant attacks to set back Iran’s nuclear program. It is widely believed to have been responsible for an explosion in July at an advanced centrifuge facility. 

Any more significant strikes would presumably require a provocation, though the news that Iran now has enough material to produce about two weapons might be enough.

Rocket attacks by Iranian-backed militias in Iraq against bases where U.S. troops are situated have quieted in recent weeks, partly as Iraqi officials crack down in response to Mr. Pompeo’s threat to close the U.S. embassy in Baghdad, and partly because some power brokers in Iran want to give negotiations with the new Biden administration a chance.

“I’d be astonished if the D.O.D. firings were laying the predicate for military action, because there just isn’t time remaining in his term to get U.S. personnel out of theater,” Ms. Schake said. “And there’s the formidable bulwark of the American military, which would have concerns and surely consult the other civilian control, the Congress.”

John Gans, a former chief Pentagon speechwriter and author of “White House Warriors,” a history of the National Security Council, said Mr. Patel, Mr. Cohen-Watnick and Mr. Ellis were all veterans of what he called the Trump’s administration’s “war on government.”

The Pentagon, more than other departments, has resisted Mr. Trump’s directives, slowing the withdrawal of troops from Syria and Afghanistan, a breach that led to the resignation of Jim Mattis as defense secretary.

“The three men have risen, in good measure because they were successful at pushing back against the bureaucracy” Mr. Gans said. “These are the people who go in and do whatever they think is required to achieve his agenda,” he said. “They are true soldiers in the war on government, the war on what Trump calls the deep state.”





No.3 article:
Millions Face Loss of Jobless Aid: ‘Without It, I’m Dead in the Water’

Emergency federal programs to assist the unemployed in the pandemic will expire at year’s end if there is no congressional action.

Two critical unemployment programs are set to expire at the end of the year, potentially leaving millions of Americans vulnerable to eviction and hunger and threatening to short-circuit an economic recovery that has already lost momentum.

As many as 13 million people are receiving payments under the programs, which Congress created last spring to expand and extend the regular unemployment system during the coronavirus pandemic. Leaders of both major parties have expressed support for renewing the programs in some form, but Congress has been unable to reach a deal to do so. It remains unclear how the results of last week’s election will affect prospects for an agreement.

That means that for now at least, people like Randy Williams must prepare for the possibility that they are weeks away from losing their only income.

Mr. Williams, 56, lost his job as a manager at a Memphis-area Cracker Barrel in the first weeks of the pandemic. His state jobless benefits ran out last month, leaving him to rely on a 13-week extension under the federal Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, which ends in late December.

Already, Mr. Williams is struggling to get by on his $275 weekly benefit check, the maximum allowed in Tennessee. He has fallen behind on rent, racked up thousands of dollars in credit card debt and turned to a food pantry run by a church.

Even with the benefits, “I may have got behind on this or that, robbing Peter to pay Paul this month,” he said. “But without it, I’m dead in the water.”

The expanded unemployment programs are some of the last vestiges of the trillions of dollars in aid that Congress provided through a series of emergency measures in the spring. That spending — which included direct checks to most U.S. households, $600 a week in supplemental unemployment benefits and hundreds of billions of dollars in support for small businesses — offset the pandemic’s financial toll for many families, and helped fuel an economic recovery that was initially stronger than many forecasters expected.

Much of that assistance expired over the summer, however. Economic gains have slowed significantly since then, and studies have found that millions of Americans fell into poverty as aid dried up. Employment data released Friday showed that the number of people out of work for more than six months, the standard threshold for long-term unemployment, rose 1.2 million in October, to 3.6 million.

The year-end benefits cliff could be even more damaging. Many families have depleted any savings they built when the $600 supplement was available. A partial federal eviction moratorium is scheduled to expire at the end of the year, although it could be extended. And benefits checks won’t just shrink, as they did over the summer — they will disappear.

“The safety net still has kind of held up until now, and I think we have been maybe lulled into a sense of complacency,” said Andrew Stettner, an expert on unemployment benefits at the Century Foundation, a progressive policy research group. “We’re just putting people in this really precarious financial position where the damage of unemployment can just hit really hard.”

Nearly four million Americans are receiving benefits under the pandemic compensation program. That number has doubled in the past month and is expected to keep rising as more people reach the end of their state benefits, which last 26 weeks in most of the country.

If the program ends at the end of the year, some workers will be able to continue to receive benefits under a federal program not tied to the pandemic. But those benefits aren’t available in some states, including Tennessee, and don’t cover some types of workers, like freelancers.

Congress last spring created a separate emergency program, Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, to cover people left out of the normal unemployment system, such as freelancers and self-employed workers, as well as those unable to work because of pandemic-related child care issues and similar obstacles. There were 9.3 million people in that program in mid-October, according to federal data, although some experts on the unemployment system believe that figure overstates the total.

By any measure, millions are in danger of losing their benefits. Many economists warn that the harm would extend not just to individual workers but to the broader economy.

“Those households then have to dramatically cut back on their spending, they then fall further behind on their rent, and that means that their landlords suffer and the businesses that they would have been buying from will suffer,” said Jesse Rothstein, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley.

Conservative economists have long argued that unemployment benefits can be counterproductive because they discourage recipients from seeking or accepting jobs. That argument has been persuasive with many Republican lawmakers, who fought to end extended benefits during the last recession a decade ago and who have been skeptical of offering more generous benefits during the current crisis.

Progressives, including Mr. Rothstein, have countered that the disincentive effects of benefits are small, especially when jobs are scarce, and that giving workers a lifeline lets them seek out better jobs. In recent years, researchers have also used new data sources to study what happens when benefits run out, and have found clearer evidence that losing benefits creates significant hardship for families.

Bruce Meyer, a University of Chicago economist and longtime critic of unemployment benefits, said he remained unconvinced by many of the traditional progressive arguments for unemployment insurance. But he said he found the new data compelling.

“Unemployment insurance does not help you get a better job — it keeps you out of work and lets your skills deteriorate,” he said. “But it keeps you from starving.”

The threat of losing benefits is amplified during a pandemic. Matt Weis, chief program officer at the National Able Network, a Chicago-based nonprofit organization, said he had long counseled job seekers to look for a “survival job” — one that will pay the bills while they look for more permanent work. But that is a harder argument to make when many sources of stopgap work, like seasonal retail and fast food, could carry health risks.

“It’s just putting people in a really, really tricky situation,” Mr. Weis said. “Do I preserve my health and the health of my family by staying home and not working? OK, fine, how do I do that? I’ve got bills to pay.”

Gail Kulwicki, a home health aide in Muskegon, Mich., has a history of health problems, so when the coronavirus began spreading in the United States, her employer told her to stop coming into work. She has been unemployed ever since.

The $1,200 stimulus check and $600 a week in extra unemployment benefits were a help early on. Ms. Kulwicki, who is 71 and lives with her adult son, was able to pay off some bills and pad her savings. But with that money gone, she is getting by on her remaining unemployment benefits, plus Social Security and a small pension. It is enough to pay her bills, but barely.

“With the unemployment gone, we would have to find other ways to bring income in or we wouldn’t be able to pay the bills,” she said. “It would be pay the rent, pay the electric and, OK, I guess we’re eating ramen noodles for the month.”

With her health concerns, going back to work in home health care is off the table for the time being. So are many other types of work. So she and her son are driving for the food-delivery app DoorDash on alternating evenings, trying to cushion the loss of her benefits next month.

A registered Democrat, Ms. Kulwicki voted for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the presidential election, but is angry at both parties for failing to reach an agreement to help people like her.

“I don’t appreciate Washington playing politics with my life,” she said.

Congress may still extend the programs before they expire. Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said last week that a new aid package would be the Senate’s top priority now that the election was over, although he has provided few details on what would be included.

“Hopefully the partisan passions that prevented us from doing another rescue package will subside with the election,” he said. “And I think we need to do it, and I think we need to do it before the end of the year.”

But negotiations have repeatedly failed, and it remains far from certain that this attempt will succeed. The aftermath of the election — including President Trump’s refusal so far to accept the result, and runoff elections in Georgia that will decide control of the Senate — is likely to capture Washington’s attention for weeks, and Mr. Trump may see little incentive to push for a stimulus deal.  

Aneta Markowska, chief financial economist for the investment bank Jefferies, said that while she expected another aid package eventually, any delay could be costly, as businesses fail and workers leave the labor force, in some cases permanently.

“Timing does matter,” Ms. Markowska said. “There is the potential for permanent scarring during that time that is then that much harder to reverse. It’s not simply a matter of turning the lights back on.”

Victoria Passmore is trying to avoid letting short-term unemployment turn into a long-term setback.

When she lost her job at a health information company in June, Ms. Passmore, a 33-year-old single mother in Chicago, decided to take the opportunity to change careers. She has been working toward her certification as an information technology specialist, and has started a business with her sister selling healthy juices. She is counting on those to support her once her unemployment benefits run out.

“I hate to say it, I don’t really have too much faith in the government we have right now, so I am not expecting any extension,” Ms. Passmore said. “We have to figure it out for ourselves. There’s not much help coming from higher up.”





No.4 article:
Biden’s Policy Agenda Rests Heavily on Senate Outcome

Which party controls the Senate will largely dictate how ambitious President-elect Joe Biden can get on taxes, health care, climate change and other policy priorities.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s transition team is preparing multiple sets of policy proposals for the economy, health care, climate change and other domestic issues, including the ambitious agenda Mr. Biden laid out in his winning campaign, while acknowledging it may have to be pared back in recognition of divided government.

Where the incoming administration lands depends heavily on two Senate runoffs in Georgia in early January.

If Democrats win both races, close aides to Mr. Biden and economists who helped advise his campaign say the president-elect will try to push through a large stimulus plan for the flagging economic recovery — most likely along the lines of the $2.2 trillion that House Democrats approved this fall. His stimulus plan under such a scenario would include hundreds of billions of dollars for state and local governments that have lost tax revenue amid the pandemic recession, extended unemployment benefits for people who lost jobs during the crisis and a new round of aid for small businesses.

His team is also developing a government employment program — called the Public Health Jobs Corps — that would put 100,000 Americans to work on virus testing and contact tracing.

A narrow majority in the Senate would also give Mr. Biden the chance to push through his proposed tax increases on corporations and the rich — tax hikes that would be used to fund the president-elect’s more ambitious plans like rebuilding roads and bridges, speeding the transition to a carbon-free energy sector and helping Americans afford health care.

But if Republicans win even one of the Georgia seats, Mr. Biden will most likely need to settle for a wave of executive actions that would bring more incremental progress toward his policy goals, while trying to cut compromise deals with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.

Tax increases, even for the ultrarich, would almost certainly be off the table, as would be expanding the Affordable Care Act to give Americans the ability to buy into a government insurance program like Medicare. Mr. Biden would continue to push for infrastructure and health care bills, economists around him say, but he would be unlikely to win support for his full agenda in those areas.

In order to extend as much economic aid to people, businesses and state and local governments as his team believes is necessary to sustain the recovery, Mr. Biden could be forced into a creative reshuffling of unspent money from the previously approved stimulus package — the sort of move that Democrats criticized when President Trump acted this year to repurpose federal disaster funding for a supplemental unemployment benefit.

Mr. Biden’s aides say his transition team is working on a variety of contingency plans depending on economic conditions, including whether the recent surge of virus cases chills consumer spending, and on party control of the Senate. The team is also moving ahead with finalists for appointments to key cabinet positions and other posts, many of which will be announced before the Georgia runoff.

“President-elect Biden’s transition team is filled with experts who are, at this very moment, engaged in the work of fleshing out the Biden-Harris campaign policy proposals into actionable executive actions and legislative proposals,” said Stef Feldman, Mr. Biden’s campaign policy director. “The Biden-Harris administration will be prepared to act on Day 1 in all scenarios, including the different possible outcomes of the Georgia runoffs.”

Georgia is headed to a runoff because none of the candidates running for the two Senate seats won 50 percent of the vote, a legal threshold set by the state. On Jan. 5, the state will hold another election, with Senator David Perdue, a Republican, up against Jon Ossoff, a Democrat, and Kelly Loeffler, a Republican, up against the Rev. Raphael G. Warnock, a Democrat.

The races will be competitive and expensive, reflecting Georgia’s newfound status as a battleground state and the high stakes of the outcome. The presidential race there is still undecided, with Mr. Biden currently leading Mr. Trump by just over 14,000 votes in the state, which has voted Republican in every presidential election since 1992. On Wednesday, Georgia’s Republican secretary of state authorized a hand recount of the election — a move championed by Mr. Trump but one officials have said is unlikely to erase Mr. Biden’s narrow lead.

“A Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate would be the biggest difference maker to help President-elect Biden deliver for working families across the country,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.

Such a majority would give Democrats the ability to pass certain legislation without running the risk of a Republican filibuster by employing the same parliamentary maneuver that Mr. Trump and his party used to pass sweeping tax cuts in 2017 without a single Democratic vote. It would almost certainly be the vehicle for Mr. Biden to achieve most of his ambitions in areas like infrastructure, education and climate change. And it would allow him to raise taxes on companies and the rich, which Republicans would otherwise almost certainly block.

“It seems like it’s everything,” said Heidi Shierholz, a former Labor Department economist under President Barack Obama who is the policy director at the liberal Economic Policy Institute in Washington. “If it’s 50-50 in the Senate after the Georgia races, then the Democrats will be able to push something substantial through that will be a really key thing for boosting the economy. If not, it just doesn’t seem possible.”

While Mr. Biden’s campaign platform was less expensive and expansive than his Democratic primary race rivals’, it featured more new government spending and targeted tax increases — in dollar terms — than any Democratic nominee before him.

Much of his campaign’s domestic policy agenda would require acts of Congress, including many of the economic policies that Mr. Biden’s transition team has highlighted in recent days.

That list starts with a stimulus proposal that hews closely to the multitrillion-dollar package that House Democrats approved this fall, though they could not reach an agreement with Trump administration officials and Mr. McConnell in order to pass the bill into law.

Mr. Biden’s bigger-picture agenda also calls for new legislation. He wants to pass an infrastructure bill that includes expanding broadband internet to rural areas and increasing federal spending on clean energy research. He would fund universal prekindergarten, enhanced Social Security benefits and expanded tax credits for health insurance coverage. He would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour from $7.25 and make it easier for workers to form a labor union.

To offset that new spending, Mr. Biden would seek congressional approval to raise taxes on businesses, particularly multinational corporations, and individuals earning more than $400,000 a year.

Slivers of that agenda would remain possible for Mr. Biden without Senate control. Business groups remain hopeful that he and Mr. McConnell could reach agreement on a slimmed-down stimulus bill and a compromise infrastructure package, perhaps in the form of a new highway bill.

Mr. Biden could also push executive actions to reshape trade, financial regulation and energy policy, among others. His Treasury Department could use its regulatory authority to nibble at the edges of tax policy, including shifting enforcement efforts to focus more on high earners and companies that dodge tax liability, said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College in Oregon who provided tax policy advice to Mr. Biden’s campaign.

Mr. Biden’s campaign platform included a wide range of potential executive actions, such as placing new requirements on firms bidding for federal contracts to promote higher pay and racial equality. It also included a plan to direct $400 billion of federal procurement to products made in the United States and to impose strict new fuel economy standards to combat climate change. Transition advisers are also exploring how Mr. Biden might repurpose previously allocated, but unspent, stimulus funds to help people and businesses.

Liberal economists and many progressive activists fear that scenario would expose the economy to the risk of a sluggish recovery early in Mr. Biden’s term.

“Just being totally realistic and honest, it’s huge” for the fate of Mr. Biden’s agenda, said Michael Linden, the executive director of the Groundwork Collaborative, which promotes progressive policies. “That doesn’t mean that if Democrats win the Senate, they get all their wildest dreams. It does mean that instead of having to give everything they need to Mitch McConnell to get him to think about doing something, you could actually get some things passed to improve people’s lives.”

But business groups and many consultants in Washington are welcoming the possibility of a divided government with little threat of corporate tax increases.

“We have to lower the ceiling of expectations in that scenario” for Mr. Biden’s agenda, said John Gimigliano, a former Republican tax policy staff member in the House who is now at KPMG in Washington. “We’re looking at more modest, more bipartisan stuff. And to be honest, maybe that’s not the worst thing.”





No.5 article:
The President’s Backup Band

Absent connections to the world of celebrity, Donald J. Trump minted his own. His White House wasn’t Hollywood, but maybe that was the point.

In August, Kerry Washington, Eva Longoria, Tracee Ellis Ross and Julia Louis-Dreyfus took turns as M.C.s at the Democratic National Convention. They were picked seemingly for their ability to reach different groups of women voters and represented exactly what Hollywood and the party hoped to telegraph about itself: classy, inclusive, empathic.

Donald Trump never had the acceptance of this crowd.

Long after he became a famous developer, there remained about him a face-pressed-against-the-glass quality, at least among the establishment of Park Avenue and the glitziest people of Hollywood. Not for nothing did Fran Lebowitz once describe him as a “poor person’s idea of a rich person.”

He spent much of 1990 trying to get Madonna to perform at the opening of the Taj Mahal in Atlantic City, but the only thing he got was dissed when Interview asked her that year about rumors he was going to run for president and she responded by calling him “a wimp,” before adding that America should select someone “more handsome.”

When a Trump got invited onto the yachts of media and entertainment moguls like Barry Diller, David Geffen and Rupert Murdoch, her name was usually Ivanka.

It wasn’t a surprise that even the most apolitical stars in America felt the need to express disgust with Mr. Trump during and after his 2016 presidential run.

Hollywood is, after all, a bastion of liberalism, and the jet fuel of the outgoing president’s political career was a racist conspiracy theory he peddled about Barack Obama’s birthplace. Having Scott Baio and Antonio Sabato Jr. as supporters doesn’t really count as a big win, Janice Min, the former editorial director of The Hollywood Reporter, said in an interview.

But because Mr. Trump’s political ascent occurred after his hit reality show, “The Apprentice”; because he had a flair for the comic insult that is unrivaled in modern politics; and because — in the absence of real celebrity alliances — he essentially hatched a bunch of his own while in office, his presidency had an air of infotainment like no other.

More than masterminding the concept of alternative facts, Kellyanne Conway, Jason Miller and Steve Bannon created seemingly alternate realities. Everything was role playing. Even Paul Manafort’s hair was a show.

And with conventional, big-league stardom in decline and microcelebrity on ascent — hastened by Instagram, podcasting, Twitter and reality TV — Mr. Trump and his backup band of pugilistic pundits were right on schedule.

Jared Kushner and Stephen Miller, who at least in appearance resembled the austere, technocratic types who populated the Obama administration, took on important, but largely behind-the-scenes roles. The outward-facing men of Trumpworld tended to be big, scruffy and full of bluster.

Mr. Bannon, who helped found the right-wing media machine Breitbart and managed much of the first Trump campaign, seemed perpetually enraged. Brad Parscale, who worked on the first and managed much of the second, looked in a suit like a U.F.C. fighter on a job interview.

The women in his orbit, chief among them Ms. Conway — who described herself in 1998 to Harper’s Bazaar as a person whose broad mind and tiny waist never traded places — more often than not looked like Fox News hosts. And occasionally were.

Mr. Trump’s critics derided the men and women of his tribe as D-list. What they often failed to see, said Jose Antonio Vargas, the founder of Define American, a media advocacy organization that works with celebrities on changing the public perception of immigrants, was that this was what made them effective.

In an America filled with people accustomed to being disdained and dismissed, Mr. Vargas argued, voters in red states and swing states for the first time in a long while got to see a White House that was almost entirely devoid of mystique.

“Through the influencers in his orbit, Trump created a parallel reality for people who don’t need the validation of The New York Times, who don’t listen to NPR, and couldn’t give a hoot about the difference between New York magazine and The New Yorker,” he said.

“Who is on MSNBC?” Ms. Min said. “More often than not, it’s someone in Georgetown with carefully curated books on American history behind them. The person speaking for Trump on Fox News is loud, brash and may not have read a book in the last year, but it doesn’t matter. It’s from the gut.”

Twitter, where ideas get winnowed down to sound bites and fights get likes, has proved to be a forum remarkably like reality television, Ms. Min added. Not just because Mr. Trump could smack down enemies without adjudication by journalists, but because his habit of retweeting the most vitriolic attacks on his opponents amplified the voices of those making them, turning them into personalities and building the illusion of a populist uprising around what was mostly a cult of personality.

“It’s algorithmic behavior,” she said. “People like what you say, you get retweets and validation from the president, so you say more and more of it. It’s like in reality television, where you get rewarded for how outrageous your antics are, how bold you are, and also, how aggressively you’ll go after the opponent.”

Mr. Trump didn’t have to look far to find people who’d do this. His eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., a self-professed “social media troll” amassed a following of 6.2 million people by throwing down at people like Robert Mueller, Joe Biden and Elizabeth Warren. That led to a book, “Triggered,” a New York Times best seller.

It is dedicated to “the DEPLORABLES,” a description Hillary Clinton used during her 2016 presidential campaign to describe many Trump supporters, who reclaimed it as a badge of honor. “While the elite of the other party look down on you and would rather you stay silent, I salute your work ethic, patriotism and values,” wrote the younger Mr. Trump, whose girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, a cable news fixture of dubious distinction, became a speaker at the Republican National Convention this year.

Up was down. Down led up.

The gulf between the personalities Mr. Trump minted and the surrogates picked by the Biden campaign to help carry his message mirrors the changing identities of the parties, said Robert George, a right-leaning professor who serves as the McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence and director of the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions at Princeton University. The historically working class Democratic Party is now increasingly urban and college educated. The historically elite Republican Party, more and more, courts the working class, he noted.

Despite coddling white supremacists, Mr. Trump still sought approval from Black celebrities, including Kanye West and more recently, the rapper Lil Wayne, who said he endorsed Mr. Trump because of his stated intent to introduce a $500 billion “Platinum Plan” to help Black entrepreneurs get businesses off the ground.

Among Black activists, there was great skepticism about the plan being anything other than a cynical election ploy — and the photo op with Lil Wayne being little more than cover for Mr. Trump’s history of racist rhetoric and alleged history as a developer of mistreating Black residents at his properties.

It recalled, somewhat, Mr. Trump’s photo ops with Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson — two Black conservatives who called themselves Diamond and Silk and uploaded videos of themselves to YouTube, in which they expressed their admiration for Trump and threw shade at Hillary Clinton.

On the surface, said Rashad Robinson, the president of Color of Change, a progressive nonprofit civil rights organization that monitors media and works closely with Hollywood, public appearances by Diamond and Silk gave people who aren’t white a degree of permission to vote for Mr. Trump.

But their real function, he argued in an interview, was to provide psychological comfort to those who are, giving them a signal that their sense of persecution at the hands of woke America was rooted not in racism but clearheadedness. They also provided comic relief at rallies that took on a Coachella for Conservatives vibe, complete with crowd surfers like Vernon Jones, a Democratic former member of Georgia’s state legislature, who did this maskless at a campaign stop in Macon, Ga., last month, as the pandemic continued to surge.

“Trump created the cult that includes people who serve as court jesters there to entertain the monarch and augment his power,” Mr. Robinson said. “The court jester is not the most talented person in the village. It’s the clown. It’s the person willing to do the ‘thing’ to serve the monarch, the folks who will say crazy stuff and say it even more crazy than Trump would.”

Of course, he noted, the people who served in this function were not just Black.

Enter Richard Grenell, a telegenic, white, openly gay, right-wing Fox News contributor who in 2017 became the ambassador to Germany after staunchly supporting the president on air. In February he was named the acting director of National Intelligence, a temporary position that nevertheless gave him oversight of the National Security Agency, the C.I.A. and 15 other government agencies.

After the election, Mr. Grennell headed to Las Vegas to help with Mr. Trump’s baseless effort to uncover widespread voter fraud. There, he was captured on camera at a news conference dressing down an MSNBC reporter, simply because the reporter asked what evidence exists to back up the president’s claims of illegitimate voting. It established him as yet another member of the ever-revolving backup band that refuses to admit a majority of Americans have pulled the plug.

But Mr. Vargas of Define American said the coming end of the Trump presidency will not mark the end of the players within it. “As much as establishment Republicans recoil at Trump, they are still being very careful about critiquing him, because doing so isn’t just a decision to go up against him,” he said. “It’s a decision to go up against this whole media ecosystem he created that’s not going away.”





No.6 article:
Australia’s Struggle With ‘Bonk Bans’ and ‘Manterruptions’

Prime Minister Scott Morrison came under fire this week for abruptly interrupting a female senior minister who was asked what it’s like to be a woman in Parliament.

SYDNEY, Australia — It may go down in Australia as the “manterruption” of the year.

In the wake of a television investigation that revealed allegations of sexism and inappropriate behavior in Australia’s governing Liberal Party, Anne Ruston, the minister for families and social services, was asked at a news conference on Tuesday what it’s like to be a woman in Parliament.

But Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who appeared at her side, just couldn’t seem to let her answer the question.

Before she could speak a full sentence, Mr. Morrison jumped in to criticize a term used to describe a rule introduced by his predecessor in 2018 that prohibited sexual relations between staff and ministers. The term: “bonk ban,” which he insisted made light of a serious issue.

He carried on at full paternal volume, apparently without noticing that he had cut her off. When he was done, he gestured to her to carry on.

“It’s stunning,” said Nina Funnell, a leading Australian activist for survivors of sexual assault and harassment. “It’s stunning how oblivious he is to the way in which his own behavior reproduces the very problem that they are there to discuss, which is obvious systemic gender inequality.”

For many, Mr. Morrison had revealed himself to be exactly the kind of leader that many women had suspected: a bloke’s bloke who assumes he knows what’s best and works hard to protect his mates even if they are accused of misconduct.

Almost immediately, the video clip of his interruption took off online. In comments on Facebook, hundreds of women expressed exasperation.

“There he goes again, butting in with that arrogant dad voice,” one wrote.

“The arrogance of this is so frustrating,” wrote another.

Some critics on social media even compared the prime minister to a professional wrestler.

Mr. Morrison was addressing the accusations against two senior leaders — Attorney General Christian Porter and Alan Tudge, the population minister. Mostly he dismissed the claims as old news, noting that the alleged behavior had occurred before he became prime minister in 2018 through an intraparty revolt.

“They relate to circumstances that occurred that were pertinent to the prime minister at the time,” he said, adding that there would be no additional investigation from his government.

“These things happen in Australia,” he declared. “People do things and they regret them.”

The report from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s leading investigative program, “Four Corners,” emerged only after intense government pressure to kill the episode, according to producers. The investigation cited six witnesses who said they had seen Mr. Porter kissing and cuddling a young woman at a bar in Canberra in 2017.

The prime minister at the time, Malcolm Turnbull, said he had warned Mr. Porter — who was married and has campaigned on family values — that his behavior was unacceptable, opening him up to the risk of blackmail.

Mr. Porter, a father of two who is still the attorney general, has denied having an affair. He and his wife announced their separation in January.

Mr. Tudge’s case involved an affair in 2017 with Rachelle Miller, who was a Liberal Party adviser. Ms. Miller told “Four Corners” that it had been consensual. Mr. Tudge acknowledged the affair and expressed regret.

But Ms. Miller said that he had pressured her to keep it secret, and that while he was promoted to the cabinet, she was blacklisted by the Liberal Party. She recently filed a formal complaint accusing him of workplace bullying and intimidation that left her “anxious and afraid” in a system that failed to support her.

Susan Harris Rimmer, a law professor at Griffith University who worked for the government in Canberra from 2005 to 2008, said the allegations against both men — and Mr. Morrison’s response — all point once again to Australia’s willingness to let government institutions be run like gentleman’s clubs of yesteryear.

The culture, she said, prioritizes protection for the powerful over professionalism for all.

“It’s what someone called a mate-ocracy,” Professor Harris Rimmer said. “It depends on who is doing it. There’s a deference to privacy, and there’s something to be said for that, but it creates an idea that the workplace is different and special, and normal rules don’t apply.”

Professor Harris Rimmer said that even compared to many of its developed peers, Australia remained a step or 10 behind. Mr. Morrison, she added, ought to look to Britain, where Parliament requested an independent study in 2015 on how to make the legislative body more inclusive and professional.

The final report listed 43 recommendations focused on equality of participation, infrastructure and culture. Among other things, it has led to some improvements for women, including an allowance of proxy voting during parental leave.

“We need to have our version of the ‘Good Parliament’ report,” Professor Harris Rimmer said. “It was an effort to think about Parliament as an exemplary workplace — and we’ve never done that.”





No.7 article:
How N.Y.C.’s Conservative Bastion Became a Virus Hot Spot

Staten Island has bristled at coronavirus restrictions, but now has the highest positive test rate in the city.

When supporters flocked to a rally for President Trump on Staten Island last month, many left their masks at home. Others have been spotted mingling in barbershops and at family gatherings — signs of a dwindling vigilance that has given some neighbors pause. By Tuesday, the coronavirus outbreak here had gotten so bad that public health officials descended on the borough’s strip malls and street corners, hoping to slow the virus’s spread.

As New York City faces the prospect of a second wave of infections, Staten Island finds itself at the leading edge of the virus’s resurgence. The borough’s seven-day positive test rate is the highest in the city — a full point higher than the citywide rate.

Two Staten Island ZIP codes have risen above 5 percent, prompting Mayor Bill de Blasio to target the borough for a “Day of Action” on Tuesday, sending a flood of volunteers to raise awareness about the problem and to combat growing fatigue with the limitations that have become a daily part of life for millions of New Yorkers. 

On Wednesday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declared most of the borough a “yellow zone,” limiting outdoor gatherings to 25 people — private indoor gatherings are now limited to 10 people statewide — and capping attendance at places of worship at 50 percent capacity, along with other restrictions.

Staten Island has long diverged from the rest of the city both culturally and politically, and some borough residents bristle at restrictions in a way that can at times more closely resemble the backlash in Republican strongholds in other parts of the nation — places that are now grappling with their own rise in cases.

Many here take coronavirus precautions seriously, pulling masks over their faces as they emerge from their cars. But some say they have seen other Staten Islanders begin to let their guard down. Whether the borough can beat back this latest surge is a question that could help determine whether the city at large can keep the pandemic at bay.

After months of largely successful efforts to rein in the virus, New York City has seen daily cases climb, surpassing 1,000 positive tests five days in a row last week — a level that last occurred in May. As city health officials continued to discuss new restrictions on Monday, Mr. de Blasio warned that New Yorkers have “one last chance” to stop a second wave that could force the closing of schools.

For a city that has already suffered through severe shutdowns of its economy, losing the slow but steady gains of recent months, such as a limited return to indoor dining at restaurants, is a chilling prospect.

Mr. Cuomo announced on Wednesday that New York State’s daily rate of positive test results was 2.9 percent, with more than 1,600 hospitalizations, in another troubling sign that the virus was spreading in the region. The state’s seven-day positivity rate stood at 2.4 percent. 

Staten Island will test the city and state’s strategy of tamping down clusters of cases as they emerge, as officials did in Orthodox Jewish sections of Brooklyn and Queens recently and in Sunset Park in Brooklyn and Soundview in the Bronx.

But even as cases surge across the city, officials say tracing the origin of clusters has become nearly impossible. It remains to be seen whether Staten Island is a temporary hot spot, or a harbinger.

Health officials have not said why specifically Staten Island is seeing more cases, but encouraged residents to follow the same precautions officials are pushing across the city, from wearing a mask to avoiding large gatherings. While some cases are linked to travel or nursing homes, health officials say they largely do not know how people are getting infected. 

The uptick in Staten Island is happening in a swath of New York where Republican leaders have fought restrictions by Democrats who control the city. Residents have strong social ties to New Jersey, and the borough is home to many police officers and firefighters. Staten Island is a solitary stronghold in the city for Mr. Trump, who has downplayed the importance of masks and the seriousness of the virus.

Nicole Malliotakis, a Republican who is leading in her bid to oust the Democrat who represents Staten Island in Congress, rejected the idea that Mr. Trump had anything to do with how residents of the borough viewed masks.

“I think it’s probably that Republicans don’t like mandates as much — that could be some of the reluctance,” she said.

Joseph Borelli, a Republican city councilman who represents Staten Island, said he could not explain the increase in cases. But he has seen it himself.

“A friend of mine tested positive — a firefighter who likely got it at his firehouse working. I was in contact with him, so I got a test yesterday,” said Mr. Borelli, who said the test came back negative.

Mr. Borelli, an ally of Mr. Trump, said he hoped that Mr. de Blasio did not “rush” to shut the city down again. He said that two factors might have contributed to new cases on Staten Island — police officers and firefighters who never stopped working could get the virus at work and bring it home, and his borough’s closeness with New Jersey, which was seeing a huge rise in cases and a test positivity rate above 7 percent.

“Staten Island is more similar in density and lifestyle to New Jersey than the rest of the city,” Mr. Borelli said. “Most of my constituents on the South Shore regularly shop and visit family in New Jersey.”

On Monday, Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat in his second term, announced Staten Island as the city’s next target for combating the virus.

“We’re having some challenges in Staten Island, so we’re going to focus a lot of resources there to protect the people on Staten Island and to stop this second wave,” the mayor said.

The news added to what had already been a tough week for Staten Island, a borough that often feels neglected and misunderstood. Within a few days, residents learned that the Yankees were pulling their minor league team out of the borough and that Mr. Trump had lost his re-election bid, despite support in their Republican oasis.

More than 60 percent of Staten Island voters supported Mr. Trump this year, compared with about 27 percent citywide, though mail-in ballots have not yet been counted. Mr. Trump got about 56 percent of the vote on Staten Island in 2016. Nearly three-quarters of Staten Island residents are white, compared with less than 50 percent of residents citywide.

At a shopping center in the borough on Tuesday, Kathy Melka, who lives in Eltingville, said she was taking the virus seriously. She wears a mask outdoors and avoids social gatherings, except for her trips to church. But she said some Staten Islanders seemed to be less cautious.

“I think people are getting careless now and congregating in groups without masks on,” Ms. Melka, 70, said. “I saw it in the park the other day.”

The Great Kills and Tottenville neighborhoods on the southern edge of Staten Island have the highest seven-day positive test rates in the city, at 5.44 percent and 5.3 percent, according to city data. The overall seven-day rate for the borough is 3.59 percent, compared with the citywide average of 2.42 percent. Only one of the island’s dozen ZIP codes has a positivity rate below the citywide average.

At Tottenville Bagels, Doug Hopkins, 36, who lives in Woodrow and works in Tottenville, said he only wore a mask indoors.

“When I’m outside, I don’t wear a mask,” he said. “I need to breathe air. Out of respect, I wear it in the store.”

Nearly 20 people waited outside a free testing tent at the Conference House Park visitors center in Tottenville on Tuesday afternoon, including two police officers who work on the island. Paul Christman, a Tottenville resident, was one of few people wearing a mask at the park nearby. Mr. Christman, a 60-year-old retired court officer who has underlying conditions, was out for his daily exercise.

“I’m doing what I need to do for myself and those around me,” he said.

Mr. Christman said health officials had always predicted there will be a spike in the colder months, but Mr. Trump could have set a better example.

“If the president had worn masks, maybe you’d get 10 percent more of the population wearing them and not have the spread you have,” he said. “If you get one more person wearing a mask, it’s a win.”





No.8 article:
China Targets Hong Kong’s Lawmakers as It Squelches Dissent

Four pro-democracy figures were forced out of the legislature, prompting another 15 to vow to resign in solidarity, as Beijing cracks down on one of the city’s few remaining venues for political opposition.

HONG KONG — China moved on Wednesday to quash one of the last vestiges of democracy and dissent in Hong Kong, forcing the ouster of four pro-democracy lawmakers from their elected offices in a purge that prompted the rest of the opposition to vow to resign en masse.

The departures will reshape the city’s political landscape, which has been upended since China imposed a sweeping national security law on Hong Kong this summer that gave the authorities broad powers to crack down on resistance. They mark the intensification of a campaign that has damaged Hong Kong’s global reputation as a bastion for freedom of speech and rule of law.

The targeting of the democratically elected lawmakers comes at a time when the United States — which has recently protested China’s treatment of Hong Kong and imposed sanctions — is distracted by its own struggles over the American presidential election.

In Hong Kong in recent months, the Beijing-backed authorities have arrested pro-democracy leaders and activists as they resolved to bring Hong Kong to heel and put an end to the protests that engulfed the semiautonomous Chinese territory for much of last year. Beijing and its supporters have also raised pressure on Hong Kong’s independent court system and on news outlets that strike a defiant tone.

Their target on Wednesday was Hong Kong’s legislature, the Legislative Council, which has stood as a symbol of the “one country, two systems” legal framework designed to preserve democratic freedoms in the former British colony after it returned to Chinese rule.

The legislature has proved an irritant for Beijing, as a group of pro-democracy lawmakers have loudly argued that China’s campaign threatens to erode Hong Kong’s status as a global, open city.

Beijing officials moved on Wednesday to silence those voices, granting broad new powers that allow the Hong Kong government to remove lawmakers from office who do not show clear loyalty to China.

Within minutes of Beijing’s announcement, Hong Kong officials ejected the four lawmakers, Dennis Kwok, Kwok Ka-ki, Kenneth Leung and Alvin Yeung. Hours after their removal from office, the remaining 15 members of their bloc said they were stepping down in solidarity.

“Together we stand!” lawmakers in the pro-democracy camp chanted as they held hands in a conference room in the Legislative Council building. One of the legislators, Wu Chi-wai, told reporters that they would tender their resignations in protest on Thursday.

“Under authoritarianism, the road to democracy will be extremely long and arduous, but we will absolutely not be defeated by its pressures,” Mr. Wu said. “We will inevitably find new paths.”

The lawmakers said that they believed the legislature is now so compromised by the government’s power to stamp out opposition that they must work outside the system.

“Many people will consider today a dark day. It is hard for me to say it isn’t,” said Kwok Ka-ki, one of the four lawmakers who was removed. “As long as our resolve to fight for freedom, equality and justice remains unchanged, one day we will see the return of the core values we cherish.”

The Hong Kong government appeared to welcome the resignations, which will give it much freer rein to pursue its agenda. Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, dismissed suggestions that the absence of the opposition lawmakers would tarnish the legislature if it pushed through policies favored by Beijing’s supporters.

“Of course we want the Legislative Council to pass the bills that we propose. We feel all the more excited when they can be passed in an efficient manner,” she said. “As the executive branch, we work in the hopes that the council will support and pass our bills.”

U.S. officials condemned the disqualification of the lawmakers, with the national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, saying China “has flagrantly violated its international commitments under the Sino-British Joint Declaration and its promises to the people of Hong Kong.” He added that the “one country, two systems” framework “is now merely a fig leaf covering for the C.C.P.’s expanding one party dictatorship in Hong Kong,” referring to the Chinese Communist Party.

Democracy in Hong Kong has always come with caveats. Its top leader, the chief executive, is appointed in a process controlled by Beijing. Half of the Legislative Council’s 70 members are selected by groups called functional constituencies that represent various industries and other establishment groups.

But the legislature, nicknamed LegCo, had been one of the most visible signs that Hong Kong remained distinct from mainland China, where the Communist Party dominates government and dissent is swiftly silenced. Many of the seats are elected directly by the public, helping to give the pro-democracy camp a sizable minority and a forum to express its views to the establishment. Hong Kong’s local constitution, which came into effect upon the 1997 handover, even promised eventual direct elections for the entire legislature as well as the chief executive.

Instead, the room for opposition voices in the legislature is shrinking rapidly. 

Last summer, weeks after the national security law was enacted, the Hong Kong government postponed an election set for September by a year, citing the coronavirus pandemic. The move was criticized by pro-democracy lawmakers as a naked effort to avoid defeat at the polls.

Before the postponement, the government had also forbidden the four lawmakers who were ousted on Wednesday from running for re-election. They were accused of planning legislative moves aimed at undermining the local government and of supporting, or even failing to condemn, U.S. sanctions on officials deemed responsible for rights abuses.

On Wednesday, Chinese officials outlined the new measure designed to keep the Legislative Council in line. The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, China’s top legislative body, said that lawmakers who support Hong Kong independence, refuse to recognize the country’s sovereignty over the city, seek out foreign or external forces to interfere with domestic affairs, or engage in acts that endanger national security will face immediate disqualification.

Lawmakers who fail to meet the statutory requirements for upholding the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s local constitution, and swearing “allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China” will also be ousted, it added.

The Liaison Office of the Central People’s Government in Hong Kong, Beijing’s top emissary in the city, said the rules would ensure that politicians “fulfill their constitutional responsibility of loyalty to the country.”

The move is not completely unprecedented. In 2016 and 2017, Hong Kong removed six pro-democracy lawmakers who had conducted forms of protest while taking their oaths of office. But those moves had required both local court rulings and a legal review by the government in Beijing. The new rules give the Hong Kong government far greater leeway in removing opposition lawmakers.

As other venues for dissent have been closed off, the pro-democracy lawmakers have become increasingly active. Establishment lawmakers had complained about filibustering tactics used by the opposition camp, even calling for prosecutions under the national security law.

Lau Siu-kai, a former Hong Kong government official who is now a senior adviser to Beijing, said the central government had grown frustrated with the pro-democracy camp’s tactics in the legislature, which it saw as stalling important work on issues such as a weak economy and the pandemic.

“I think Beijing does not want to wait to see whether the opposition will really change its stance because circumstances are so grave that Beijing wants to act as soon as possible,” he said.

Earlier this month, the police arrested eight pro-democracy lawmakers over a heated meeting in May, when there were disputes over control of a key committee. No establishment lawmakers were arrested; the government blocked a private prosecution against one of them who dragged an opposition lawmaker to the ground.

One of the ousted lawmakers, Dennis Kwok, controlled that committee and had drawn widespread criticism from Hong Kong and Beijing officials over delaying tactics, including slowing the consideration of certain bills. Despite the disqualification, he said he had no regrets over his actions.

“There’s no point in doing this job if you can’t do it properly,” he said.





No.9 article:
Thousands of Uncounted Votes Found a Week After Election in Puerto Rico

Nearly 200 boxes of uncounted votes have surfaced, potentially affecting the outcome of several close races across the island.

Nearly 200 boxes of uncounted votes have surfaced in Puerto Rico, a full week after voters went to the polls to choose their governor, legislators and mayors across the island, dealing another black eye to the mistrusted government.

The discovery of uncounted ballots could have sweeping effects in close races around the island, in particular the tight contest for mayor of San Juan, where the sudden influx of new votes could force a recount. Officials acknowledged that the votes could change the results of particularly narrow races that had already been preliminarily certified. In the city of Culebra, the mayor’s race currently has a margin of just two votes; in Guánica, nine.

The electoral muddle — coming three months after a disastrous primary when people waited hours in sweltering heat for ballots that never arrived — further undermined confidence in the electoral process and underscored the deep distrust many residents have long had for the government.

“The whole tragedy here is not so much how it turns out in the end, but it’s that I don’t think anyone in Puerto Rico after a failed primary and this current process can really say they trust the system,” said William Ramírez, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Puerto Rico, which had sued to allow more absentee ballots. “We had a large turnout of young people; they voted for the first time, and this was their experience.”

The election followed a sea change in local politics last year when, tired of years of corruption scandals, masses of people took to the streets to force out the sitting governor, Ricardo A. Rosselló, after leaked text messages showed him and his allies mocking gay people, women and even the hurricane dead.

The electoral results last week in Puerto Rico were already making history.

Puerto Rican politics has for years been mainly controlled by two competing parties, focused largely on whether the island should become the 51st state or remain a commonwealth.

While Pedro R. Pierluisi, a traditional party hand from Mr. Rosselló’s pro-statehood New Progressive Party, won the governor’s race last week, people from outside traditional parties made impressive showings at the polls.

The results suggested that Puerto Rican voters, bucking precedent, had chosen particular candidates, not just parties. With six candidates in the governor’s race, including two from emerging political parties, Mr. Pierluisi, Puerto Rico’s former representative in Congress, won with 33 percent of the vote. The Independence Party candidate, who typically gets about 3 percent support, received 14 percent of the vote, as did the Citizens Victory Movement, a relatively new party.

For the first time, Puerto Rico’s Legislature will be made up of a solid mix of politicians from different parties. The senator who got the highest number of votes in an islandwide at-large race was from the Independence Party. Two religious conservatives were elected to the Legislature. And in the race for mayor of San Juan, a Citizens Victory Movement candidate, Manuel Natal Albelo, trailed by just over 2,000 votes. Rarely in recent years has someone from outside the two main parties come so close to being elected mayor of Puerto Rico’s largest city.

The results were preliminarily certified, even as candidates complained that some votes appeared to be missing.

“First they said they found four boxes of uncounted votes. Then it was 50, and last night 100,” said Fermín Arraiza, an elections observer. “I get there this morning, and it’s 115 boxes. Now I think it’s 190.”

Mr. Natal, the mayoral candidate in San Juan, said he was convinced that the new votes would force a recount. His opponent, Miguel Romero, has already changed his Twitter bio to “mayor-elect.”

“We have been saying for the last week that there had been thousands and thousands of ballots that were not accounted for,” Mr. Natal said. “Now not only did they admit that there are ballots that haven’t been counted, but the memory cards from the counting machines have gone missing.”

Mr. Natal said he was collecting affidavits from people who were turned away at the polls after being told they had already voted by mail, even though they had never requested absentee ballots. But he was not prepared to accuse anyone of committing fraud.

“This has created a level of uncertainty that we have never seen before in our electoral history in Puerto Rico,” Mr. Natal said.

The president of Puerto Rico’s State Electoral Council, Francisco Rosado Colomer, acknowledged that the elections were disorganized, which he said was a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The unusual avalanche of mail-in votes made it hard to keep up, he said.

In the newly discovered boxes, many uncounted ballots from different precincts were found mixed together “in the wrong place, badly organized,” Mr. Rosado said. But he stressed that none of them had left the elections vault, and that their discovery underscored the transparency of the process.

It was unclear how many votes the boxes contained, he said at a news conference on Tuesday.

“There are cases that have three ballots, there are cases that have 500,” he said. On Wednesday morning, he told WKAQ-580 AM radio that it could be between 3,000 and 4,000 votes.

“Trust in the transparency of the process,” Mr. Rosado said. “Every vote will be counted.”

“Asking that of the country is absurd,” Carmen Yulín Cruz, the outgoing mayor of San Juan, tweeted in response.

Critics blamed the ruling pro-statehood party, which this year changed the electoral law in fundamental ways that gave Mr. Rosado’s party more control over elections. The New Progressive Party’s representative on the elections council, Héctor J. Sánchez, insisted that the government’s party wanted every last vote counted.

All of the opposition parties had agreed on Saturday to stop counting votes, he argued, despite lingering questions about ballots in some races that appeared to be missing.

In Puerto Rico, each race is voted on a different ballot, and there were discrepancies in the number of votes cast in some areas.

The ballots in the extra boxes were not really newly discovered, Mr. Sánchez claimed, but had been tagged with some kind of problem during the initial count and were set aside to be reconciled during the tally certification process.

“Unfortunately, there are people who are only interested in creating confusion and creating instability,” Mr. Sánchez said.

However, others disputed that the additional ballots had been tagged as problematic, and insisted that they had just been overlooked.

Roberto Iván Aponte, an elections council commissioner, said the final results would not be certified until December.

“It’s really irresponsible: A mayor who thinks he won is having transition committee meetings and is holding press conferences,” said Mr. Aponte, who represents the Independence Party on the board. “There are mayor races that are practically tied.”





No.10 article:
Amadou Toumani Touré, Former Malian President, Dies at 72

Mr. Touré, who led Mali through a tumultuous transition from military rule in 1991, was the country’s second democratically chosen president. He was later ousted himself in a military coup.

Amadou Toumani Touré, a former president of Mali who helped shape the country’s political landscape over two decades before being toppled in a military coup in 2012, died on Monday in Istanbul. He was 72.

Mr. Touré’s chief of staff, Seydou Cissouma, confirmed the death, at a hospital, but provided no details.

In a statement, President Bah N’Daw of Mali praised Mr. Touré for helping to modernize the country and dedicating “all his love and all his strengths” to it.

Mr. Touré’s career — first as the military leader of a coup in 1991 that brought him to power for little more than a year, and later as Mali’s president from 2002 to 2012 — reflected the recent tumultuous history of that West African country, a series of military overthrows, rocky political transitions and local insurgencies.

As the second democratically chosen president in Mali’s post-independence history, Mr. Touré presided over improvements to hospitals, schools and other infrastructure and put in place a national medical insurance plan. He was praised for his diplomatic skills and for favoring consensus over confrontation.

Yet after he was re-elected in 2007, Mr. Touré, widely known by his initials, A.T.T., was accused of failing to contain two insurgencies in the country’s north, one led by Tuareg rebel groups, the other by jihadists.

Mutinous soldiers deposed him in March 2012, opening an era of instability that continues to this day.

“A.T.T. was one of the main architects of the Malian democracy,” said Adama Samassékou, a former education minister who had known Mr. Touré since his youth. “Yet many Malians will never forget that unfortunately, it was during his second term that the Malian state crumbled to the point of collapse.”

He added, “What’s his responsibility in that? It’s hard to say, but what is undeniable is that his presidency led to some of Mali’s most tragic moments.”

Amadou Toumani Touré was born on Nov. 4, 1948, in Mopti, in central Mali, and grew up in Timbuktu, in the north. He began his career as a teacher but joined the army in 1969; he later received military training in France and the Soviet Union.

As an army officer commanding the country’s paratroop battalion in March 1991, Mr. Touré led the effort to topple the military regime of Moussa Traoré, who had been in power since 1968 and whose suppression of protests had led to the deaths of dozens of demonstrators that month.

Mr. Touré became Mali’s interim head of state in Bamako, the capital, a position he held from 1991 to 1992. Foiling a coup attempt, he steered the country to its first democratic presidential election since it had won independence in 1960.

“We must accept to try a new experience, the experience of democracy, the experience of a multiparty system,” Mr. Touré said in a televised interview in 1991, in which he vowed to protect a transition to democracy.

He won praise for keeping his promise and swiftly handing over power to Alpha Oumar Konaré, who won the 1992 presidential election. “Mali will remember A.T.T. as the ‘soldier of democracy,’ the army official who passed the baton to the first democratically elected president of Mali,” Mr. Samassékou said.

Mr. Touré was named a general after stepping aside, but in the decade that followed he mostly stayed out of Malian politics. He created instead a humanitarian foundation for children’s health and worked on campaigns against polio and AIDS. Alongside efforts by former President Jimmy Carter, he fought to control the parasitic Guinea worm.

In 2001 he briefly served as a special envoy for Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations after a coup in the Central African Republic. Later that year, he resigned from the Malian military to run for president.

Elected in 2002, Mr. Touré was re-elected in 2007. In his 10 years in office he oversaw a broad infrastructure program entailing the construction of hospitals, roads and schools and improvements to water and electrical systems. He was also credited with improving access to housing and creating the country’s first nationwide medical insurance.

But under Mr. Touré, Mali became riddled with corruption, analysts have said, and in the late 2000s he was increasingly accused of being complacent about drug trafficking in the north. Neighboring countries and France, the former colonial power, grew frustrated at his management of the threats posed by insurgent groups.

“A.T.T. sought to contain security threats without really addressing them, and eventually let the situation in Mali deteriorate,” said Yvan Guichaoua, a lecturer in international conflict analysis at the Brussels School of International Studies and an expert in the vast Sahel region of North Africa, of which Mali is a part. “What he was loved for, was also what he was hated for: forging consensus, seeking agreements with various protagonists and maintaining hegemony on a shoestring.”

Mutinous soldiers deposed Mr. Touré in March 2012, plunging Mali into a period of turmoil as Islamist groups seized swaths of the northern parts of the country and threatened to expand into the center.

“The overthrow of A.T.T. left the Malian Army on the ground in complete disarray,” said Marc-André Boisvert, an independent researcher on the Malian Army. “The chain of command had been destroyed, and the main cities in the north all fell in the weeks that followed Touré’s departure.”

According to Ornella Moderan, a Bamako-based researcher and the head of the Sahel program at the Institute for Security Studies in Pretoria, South Africa, Mr. Touré was deposed in part because he had failed to reform the Malian military.

“A.T.T.’s predecessor thought that a strong democracy didn’t need a strong army, and A.T.T. didn’t question that when he came into power in 2002,” Ms. Moderan said. “In the end, he was overthrown by a weak army.”

French troops intervened in January 2013, taking back territory in the north that had been controlled by insurgents and preventing the groups from marching to Bamako.

Still, the country remains roiled by violence.

The threat from jihadist groups — including Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara, among others — has spread across a vast sweep of the Sahel, including in the central area of Mopti in Mali, where Mr. Touré was born. More than 10,000 people have died in unrest in West Africa, and more than a million have fled their homes in recent years.

Chronic instability has plagued the country. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who was elected in 2013 after Mr. Touré was ousted, was himself deposed in a coup in August, the third in Mali in less than three decades.

In 2012, Mr. Touré fled Mali and found refuge in Senegal, where he lived for several years before returning to his home country in 2017. 

His survivors include his wife, Touré Lobbo Traoré, and three daughters.

In September, in one of his last public appearances, Mr. Touré attended the funeral of Mr. Traoré, the authoritarian leader he helped overthrow in 1991.





No.11 article:
Khalifa Bin Salman al-Khalifa, Leader of Bahrain’s Government, Dies at 84

During his tenure as the world’s longest-serving prime minister, he oversaw development in the Gulf kingdom, stood up for the monarchy and quashed dissent.

BEIRUT, Lebanon — Prince Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, who ran Bahrain’s government as prime minister for nearly five decades while defending the ruling dynasty and quashing opposition, died on Wednesday. He was 84.

The state-run Bahrain News Agency said he died at the Mayo Clinic in the United States without elaborating. (The clinic’s main campus is in Rochester, Minn.) He had previously had at least two heart attacks and undergone heart surgery.

At his death, Prince Khalifa, a brother of Bahrain’s previous monarch and uncle of its current king, Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, was the world’s longest-serving prime minister. He was known by friends and foes alike as a traditionalist who had run the day-to-day affairs of Bahrain’s government since the country gained independence from Britain in 1971.

During those years Bahrain experienced steady economic development and forged a close alliance with the United States. The U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet is based in Bahrain, an island nation of 1.5 million people in the Persian Gulf between Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

Prince Khalifa stood up for his long tenure at the head of Bahrain’s government. When he was asked about it in 2012, he told reporters for the German magazine Der Spiegel, “So what?”

“Democratic systems are very different,” he said. “Why can’t we also be different?”

In the same interview, he criticized the Arab Spring uprisings, including one in Bahrain, that erupted in 2011.

“This is not an ‘Arab spring,’” he said. “Spring is connected with flowers, happy people and love — not death, chaos and destruction.”

Bahrain has been shaken by occasional eruptions of popular discontent, mostly among its Shiite Muslim majority, who accuse its Sunni Muslim rulers of systemic discrimination.

Late Wednesday, Bahrain announced that Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, the king’s eldest son, would become the new prime minister. Prince Salman, 51, is also the deputy commander of Bahrain’s military.

Prince Khalifa was a son of the al-Khalifa dynasty that has ruled Bahrain since 1783, including during its time as a British protectorate before it gained independence in 1971.

His father, Sheikh Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, ruled Bahrain from 1942 to 1961, and Prince Khalifa shadowed him, learning the affairs of government.

Prince Khalifa’s brother, Sheikh Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa, took power in 1961 and continued as Bahrain’s emir after independence. While his brother served as the diplomatic and ceremonial head of state, Prince Khalifa became prime minister, giving him oversight of the government and economy.

The Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1979 scared Bahrain’s leaders, who feared that its revolutionary Shiite ideology would take root in their own Shiite population and challenge their rule. In the 1980s, Bahrain said it had thwarted two pro-Iranian coup attempts.

In the 1990s, Bahrain’s Shiites rose up to demand economic development and political reforms, and Sheikh al-Khalifa championed efforts to quell the unrest by locking up thousands of people.

As Bahrain’s economy developed, Prince Khalifa was dogged by corruption allegations.

“I believe that Sheikh Khalifa is not wholly a negative influence,” an American diplomat wrote in 2004 in a cable released by WikiLeaks. “While certainly corrupt, he has built much of modern Bahrain.”

The diplomat called Prince Khalifa “a traditional Arab” and predicted that his conservatism would make him “a drag on the pace of reform.”

Sayed Ahmed Alwadaei, director of the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy, an opposition human rights monitor, said in a statement released on Wednesday that Prince Khalifa had “left behind a legacy of abuse and power.”

In 2017, Bahrain joined Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt in cutting diplomatic relations with Qatar and imposing a boycott on that tiny Gulf neighbor, accusing its of meddling in other countries’ affairs and supporting terrorism. The Qataris have denied those accusations.

Last month, Bahrain agreed to open diplomatic relations with Israel, making it the fourth Arab state to do so.

Prince Khalifa’s health had been declining for years, and he left Bahrain in August for what the government called at the time “a private visit abroad.”

His nephew declared a week of mourning, the state news agency said. Prince Khalifa will be buried after his body returns from abroad.





No.12 article:
What Places Are Hardest Hit by the Coronavirus? It Depends on the Measure

By different metrics, all sorts of locations in the United States are deeply troubling, from Minot, N.D., to New York City.

The coronavirus is tearing across the United States at an alarming pace. Hospitals are filled to perilous levels. More than 120,000 new cases are being identified every day. And ever higher and more miserable records — of states’ cases, of positive testing rates, of hospitalizations — are being set, day after day.

A pandemic that was once raging in New York and later across the Sun Belt is now spread so widely across the country that any number of cities and states might now be considered the worst off, depending on the measurement used.

The Minot, N.D., area has seen more cases per capita in this upsurge than anywhere in the country. Wisconsin’s outbreak has escalated more rapidly than those in other states. The county that includes Los Angeles has reported more virus cases since the pandemic’s start than anywhere else. Texas has the most cases of any state, and the most cases reported on college campuses.

The list of deeply troubled locations — each with its own, different gauge of the problem — goes on and on. If anything, the sheer number of hot spots comes as a reminder of how widespread this outbreak has grown.

“The entire country is out of control,” said Dr. Dara Kass, an associate professor of emergency medicine at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York who treated numerous Covid-19 patients this spring and had the virus herself. “When you see the Dakotas and Montana and Oklahoma and Utah and Iowa and Texas — all these states — overrun with cases, it’s jarring to know that no matter what we do here, it’s going to depend on the action or inaction of leadership and people everywhere else.”

Here is a snapshot at some of the places in the country that might be considered the most trouble-prone when it comes to Covid-19.

The metro area with the most recent cases per capita.

It is not immediately obvious in Minot, a city of 47,000 that is known for its Air Force base, that a spike of virus cases is unfolding. Schools are proceeding in person and indoor dining, though limited, is still allowed.

But inside Trinity Hospital, a crisis is clear. Doctors and nurses are working overtime to care for the rapidly increasing number of coronavirus patients. An entire hospital floor — 35 beds — is dedicated to Covid-19 patients, but hospital officials say it is not enough and an expansion is being considered, as other large hospitals in the state are full and unable to help.

“It’s very scary,” said Lisa Clute, a public heath official in Minot. “One day my mom called and she said, ‘I lost three friends last night to Covid.’ It’s heartbreaking. I just don’t know how else to say it.”

The metro area that may have faced the most prolonged suffering.

Other places have had bigger outbreaks, worse days and faster surges. But few have seen the sustained pain of the Sioux City, Iowa, metro area.

It has had more known cases per capita than any metro area except Bismarck, N.D., according to a New York Times analysis. Nearly 9 percent of people in the area, known to locals as Siouxland, have tested positive.

The troubles started this spring, when outbreaks at meatpacking plants sickened hundreds of people.

After a relatively quiet summer, infections have started rising again, with daily case levels across the Sioux City metro area exceeding 180 a day, almost as many as at the May peak.

School officials have said they could soon ask the state for permission to close some buildings. Mayor Bob Scott said pretty much everyone at an outdoor Veterans Day event was wearing a mask, a level of compliance he would not have expected even a few weeks ago.

But the struggle has been so prolonged, and so relentless, that Mr. Scott said he did not think most people in Sioux City realized their area had one of the country’s highest case rates.

“It’s been so gradual,” he said, “that we’ve just sort of learned how to live with it.”

The big city with the highest death toll.

In New York City, the U.S. center of the pandemic in its first dark months this spring, there is a distinct feeling of post-traumatic stress disorder as the number of new infections rise to a level — more than 1,000 cases a day — that last occurred in May.

“A second wave is knocking at the door,” Bill Neidhardt, the press secretary for Mayor Bill de Blasio, tweeted on Wednesday morning.

More than 24,000 deaths in New York City have been linked to the virus, more than in any other American city. And even as hospitalizations and death rates remain at a small fraction of what they were at their height, the sound of ambulance sirens can touch off a sense of dread.

“It’s a scary time,” said David Lat, a 45-year-old lawyer who chronicled his hospitalization in March on Twitter. “Everyone is worried about another spike.”

The county with the most known cases since the start of the pandemic.

Phones lit up across Los Angeles this week with an emergency alert: Coronavirus infections were on the rise after months of remaining steady.

Los Angeles County is seeing daily case counts at levels not seen since the late summer.

“This isn’t a blip,” Barbara Ferrer, the county public health director, said. “This is now a surge.”

Los Angeles County, with 10 million people, is more populous than most states and has seen more known cases than any other county: 326,000. Factoring for population, its numbers look far different. On a per capita basis, nine California counties have more cases.

The biggest known cluster.

Avenal State Prison, in California’s San Joaquin Valley, is the nation’s largest known coronavirus cluster of any kind, with at least 3,314 infected inmates and correctional officers over the course of the pandemic, according to the Times database. Eight inmates have died.

As of Wednesday, more than 85 percent of the prison’s inmates had tested positive, according to state prison data. Twenty inmates remained ill. A spokeswoman for the California prison system did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Michelle Tran said her husband, who is incarcerated in Avenal, had so far tested negative for the virus. But she is worried.

“I don’t want to bring him out in a bag,” she said. “I don’t want to bring him home like that.”

Among the most cases per capita of any county.

Before the outbreak at the Andbe Home, a nursing home in Norton, Kan., the county had gone months with almost no known cases. Then all at once, the virus spread through the nursing home, infecting all 62 residents and killing at least 10. More than 500 inmates in the nearby Norton Correctional Facility have also been infected.

“I think it’s opened everybody’s eyes up,” said Tammy Steinmetz, whose 89-year-old father tested positive for the virus in the Andbe Home. “I don’t know if we thought we were immune to it, but you just didn’t think it would be as bad as it was here.”

Ms. Steinmetz has not seen her father, who has dementia, since mid-September. He has a flip phone, and no way to make a video call. She is anxiously waiting for him to be moved to a room with a window so she can at least get a look.

“I’ll be right up there looking at him through the window and talking to him on his phone,” she said.

The Native American reservation with the most known cases.

Cases are rising again on the sprawling Navajo Nation, which already had far more known cases and deaths than any other Native American reservation, and more than most places in the country. More than 12,000 people have been infected and at least 595 people have died.

Tribal officials have reimposed nightly curfews, announced weekend lockdowns and installed highway checkpoints aimed at keeping outsiders from bringing the virus in. President Jonathan Nez said there had been little organized pushback to the restrictions.

“People are not saying you’re taking away my freedoms by forcing me to wear a mask,” Mr. Nez said. “It’s because we got hit hard.”

The state that has unraveled the fastest.

The pandemic has worsened across the country over the last two months, but perhaps nowhere as quickly as in Wisconsin.

At the beginning of September, Wisconsin was averaging about 700 cases a day. By this week, it was averaging more than 6,000. Hospitals are packed and more than 300 deaths were reported in the state over the last week, a record. Last week, Wisconsin’s chief health officer quit, noting the enormous pressure on public health officials during the pandemic.

“It took us seven and a half months to get to 100,000 cases,” Gov. Tony Evers said at a news conference on Tuesday evening, after issuing an executive order advising residents to stay home. “But it only took 36 days to add another 100,000. The way things are going, it will take us only 20 days to reach another 100,000.”

Testing centers are overwhelmed, raising the risk of further spread as people who might otherwise learn they are infected delay isolating themselves.

“They told us, ‘Yeah, you should get tested, but we’re out of tests,’” said Tim Cigelske, 39, of Whitefish Bay, of a local testing site he called when his family grew sick. It required multiple phone calls, virtual doctor visits and four trips to testing sites over three days to get himself, his wife and their two children tested, Mr. Cigelske said.

All were positive for the virus.

The state with the highest hospitalization rate.

South Dakota has the highest hospitalization rate in the country, with about 42 of every 100,000 South Dakotans hospitalized with Covid-19, according to the Covid Tracking Project.

Still, the state has no mask mandate, and on Tuesday night, Mayor Paul TenHaken of Sioux Falls cast the tiebreaking vote to strike down a citywide mask mandate, which he has called “simply unenforceable.”

On Wednesday afternoon, Kate Dossett, 39, arrived home from a Sioux Falls hospital, still hooked up to a portable oxygen machine. She had spent eight days on a floor that was usually meant for stroke patients but was, she said, overrun with people sick from the virus.

“I don’t know how the nurses can keep going,” she said. “It’s just day after day after day.”

With so many patients, staff members from other departments were stepping in to care for Covid-19 patients, Ms. Dossett said. A physical therapy assistant had helped care for her at one point, she said.

“It’s clearly all hands on deck,” she said.

The state with the most total cases, and the most cases linked to colleges.

More than one million cases have been reported in Texas, more than any other state. And more than 20,000 of those cases have been linked to colleges and universities, also the highest in the country.

While those records are partly a function of the state’s large population, major outbreaks have emerged this fall in cities like El Paso and Amarillo, as well as on several university campuses.

More than 2,200 cases have been reported at Texas Tech, more than 2,000 at Texas A&amp;M and more than 1,500 on the Austin campus of the University of Texas. Hunter Heck, the student body president at Texas Tech, says there has been a disconnect between life on campus, where students for the most part are socially distanced and wear masks, and raucous off-campus parties.

She said the toll of the pandemic has been broader than just infections, especially among students who are following the rules on social distancing.

“People just feel alone,” Ms. Heck said. “I’m a firm believer that humans are created for one another. We crave community.”





No.13 article:
Keep Schools Open, New York

City and state officials should prioritize children’s education and bring back restrictions on indoor dining, gyms and more.

New York residents and officials, it’s time to face some cold, hard facts. The city is on the cusp of its second wave of the coronavirus. As such, restrictions need to be brought back, as economically and socially painful as they might be.

Indoor dining at city restaurants should end. Gyms and some other nonessential businesses ought to be closed again. Religious leaders should tell their congregants to stay home, for safety’s sake, until the current surge is brought to heel. Holiday plans must be limited. Companies should again tell their staffs to work from home whenever possible. All New Yorkers need to recommit to wearing masks, social distancing and avoiding unnecessary exposure risks whenever possible. Taking these steps will help keep children in the city’s classrooms, which should be a priority.

Coronavirus infections are rising at a rate not seen since spring. As of Wednesday, the seven-day average for New York City residents testing positive for the virus was 2.52 percent, compared with 1.2 percent just over a month ago, according to city and state data. That means more than 1,000 people each day are testing positive for the coronavirus in New York City. The state is also seeing troubling increases elsewhere.

New York City’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, and Gov. Andrew Cuomo should act together, now, to reimpose the restrictions that have proved to slow the spread.

We saw Mr. Cuomo take a step in the right direction on Wednesday when he banned private indoor and outdoor gatherings of more than 10 people statewide and said gyms, bars and restaurants with licenses from the State Liquor Authority would need to close by 10 p.m. The rules go into effect on Friday.

But that is not nearly enough.

New York City has already blown past the 2 percent threshold for seven-day positivity rates that Mr. de Blasio earlier said would prompt an immediate reassessment of indoor dining. It is now approaching 3 percent, the level meant to close the city’s public schools. Ending in-person instruction right now would be a mistake, given the evidence of how little the virus has spread there so far and the devastating consequences that would follow for academic progress as well as for working parents like subway operators and nurses.

In recent months, the spike in infections in New York was largely limited to discrete neighborhoods and communities. In the early fall, Hasidic and other ultra-Orthodox communities in Brooklyn and elsewhere saw clusters. Now, Staten Island has emerged as a hot spot. But citywide, the test positivity rate is increasing, and the number of cases is rising. The case for broader restrictions is clear. And places elsewhere in New York State that are seeing troubling upticks in test positivity rates should consider similar measures.

There are no easy decisions here — there is no doubt that the lives of already weary New Yorkers will be further upended by the moves proposed here. In the short term, the city’s economy, already reeling, will take an even harder hit. It’s important that the city and state do everything they can to help make outdoor dining safe and successful throughout the colder months. And federal lawmakers need to offer workers relief in the form of additional stimulus.

Dr. Jay Varma, a senior adviser for public health in New York City, said on Tuesday that in about half of cases, officials don’t know how people who have tested positive became infected. But there is consistent data from cities across the country that indoor dining can seed outbreaks, which can grow into waves. New York cannot afford to ignore that data. San Francisco, which is also facing a surge in transmission, is closing its indoor dining beginning on Friday.

Mr. Cuomo has said New York was “ambushed” by the virus earlier this year. That’s true, but many months later, there is no such excuse.

Many thousands of New Yorkers have already lost their lives. Thousands more have fallen gravely ill, or have lost friends or loved ones. Imposing restrictions will cause pain. But the cost of not taking strong enough action quickly is more than the city can bear.





No.14 article:
Shane Bieber and Trevor Bauer Win Cy Young Awards

Bieber, a right-hander for Cleveland, led all major league pitchers in several statistical categories, and Bauer, a right-hander for Cincinnati, wasn’t far behind.

Shane Bieber still keeps a screenshot in his cellphone of a text message exchange he had earlier this year with Trevor Bauer, a former teammate in Cleveland whose locker was next to his. Although the Indians traded Bauer to the Cincinnati Reds midway through the 2019 season, the two starting pitchers still stay in frequent touch. And before the 2020 season began, they had similar betting odds to win the Cy Young Awards in their leagues.

“That’s not something I pay too much attention to,” said Bieber, who is more reserved than the brash Bauer. “But he kind of does and he texted it to me, and it goes back to this friendly competition that we have with each other. All I replied back was like, ‘Hey, why not go to 2 for 2?’ And he said, ‘Sounds like a deal.’”

Their wish came true on Wednesday: Bieber was named the unanimous winner of the American League Cy Young Award for the truncated 2020 Major League Baseball season, while Bauer claimed the National League Cy Young Award. They are the first pitchers to earn the awards in the same year after being teammates in the prior season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.

“We talked a little bit throughout the year about how cool it would be to have ex teammates win the award together, and here we are,” Bauer said on a conference call with reporters. Added Bieber: “It means the world.”

For Bieber, the award capped a rapid ascent to the top of his sport after not being considered good enough to earn a scholarship at the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2014. He instead earned a spot as a walk-on. His fastball sat in the mid-80s. He had strong command, but didn’t strike out many hitters.

Six years later, Bieber was by far the best pitcher in baseball during the 60-game regular season. He either led or tied for the major league lead in many statistical categories, such as earned run average (1.63), wins (eight), strikeouts (122) and wins above replacement (3.3).

Not far behind on many of those lists was Bauer. Now documenting his free agency on social media, Bauer went 5-4 with a 1.73 E.R.A. and 100 strikeouts and earned 27 of the 30 possible first-place votes from the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. He is the first Reds pitcher to win the award.

“For a franchise has been around for as long as the Reds have, with all the amazing talent that has gone through and all the great teams in Reds history, to not have a Cy Young Award winner in the past, it was high time that changed,” Bauer said.

The three other first-place votes in the N.L. went to Yu Darvish of the Chicago Cubs, who finished second. Jacob deGrom, the Mets’ ace who won the award in 2018 and 2019, finished third. Bieber, the A.L.’s first unanimous winner since Justin Verlander in 2011, bested Minnesota’s Kenta Maeda and Toronto’s Hyun-jin Ryu, two former Los Angeles Dodgers in their first year with new teams.

The victories by Bauer and Bieber, both right-handers and first-time winners, underscored the work of the smaller-market Indians’ envied pitching development factory.

During the 2018 and 2019 seasons, Cleveland counted Bauer, Bieber and the two-time A.L. Cy Young Award winner Corey Kluber — plus standouts like Mike Clevinger and Carlos Carrasco — among its starters. The Indians traded away Bauer, Clevinger and Kluber in a span of 13 months, and still reached the playoffs this year.

Bieber, who eventually earned a scholarship and starred for his college team, was selected by Cleveland in the fourth round of the 2016 draft. Unlike Bauer, 29, who has thrown hard since high school, Bieber, 25, added velocity over time.

In the Indians’ farm system, Bieber tweaked his repertoire and blossomed. In 2020, he threw his mid-90s fastball only 38 percent of the time, one of the lowest rates in the major leagues among starting pitchers, because he expertly mixed it with sliders, cutters, curveballs and changeups.

“His journey has been quite spectacular,” Bauer said.

Bieber’s biggest blemish of the year: He allowed seven runs in his lone playoff start, a loss to the Yankees in the first round of this year’s expanded postseason. The vote for the Cy Young Award, though, is taken before the playoffs. (The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for awards.)

Following a trend across baseball over recent years, Bieber set a major league record last season by striking out 14.2 batters per nine innings. He did that, however, over only 77⅓ innings. The previous record-holder was Gerrit Cole, now with the Yankees, whose strikeout rate of 13.8 per nine innings was accomplished over 212⅓ innings in 2019 with the Houston Astros.

Continuing a steady upward trend, Bauer finished third in strikeout rate (a career-high 12.3 per nine innings) in 2020 behind Bieber and deGrom. Bauer said he used to tease Bieber a lot for being the only member 2018 Indians’ rotation who failed to notch 200 strikeouts.

“Of course, he was only up for half a season,” Bauer said. “And he’s proceeded to beat me in strikeouts the last two years and he doesn’t let me forget about it.”

Cleveland traded for Bauer — an Arizona Diamondbacks first-round pick out of U.C.L.A. — before the 2013 season. Known for his brash personality and his mad scientist approach to pitching, Bauer went from an average starter to an excellent one in Cleveland. He used high-speed cameras, weighted-ball training, long toss and precision pitch design before they became ubiquitous in modern pitching training.

“I’m very proud of what I’ve been able to accomplish, coming from a kid who was never really the best kid on any team I was on,” Bauer said. 

Bauer posted his best all-around season this year, albeit in a pandemic-shortened campaign in which he tossed 73 innings. He led the N.L. in E.R.A., walks and hits per inning pitched (0.795) and shutouts (two). His slider was one of the best pitches in baseball: Opponents hit .075 against it.

Bauer was also dominant in his only postseason start: He struck out 12 over seven and two-thirds scoreless innings in a loss to the Atlanta Braves in the Reds’ first-round exit.

While Bieber said Wednesday would have been special even if he had not won the award because he got to spend the day surrounded by his loved ones after an unusual season, Bauer said winning the Cy Young Award had “always” been on the front of his mind even though “a lot of people won’t talk about it like that.”





No.15 article:
Sisi Promised Egypt Better Health Care. Virus Exposed His True Priority.

President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi vowed to put improved health care “at the heart” of his agenda. It hasn’t worked out like that in a country where the military’s needs always come first.

CAIRO — As the pandemic swept up the Nile this spring, one idealistic young doctor at a bustling Cairo public hospital at first grew anxious.

Then he became angry.

Patients were flooding through the hospital doors but resources were alarmingly scarce. Doctors lacked protective equipment, often making do with a single mask for a 24-hour shift. Testing kits were in short supply. Colleagues and friends caught the virus. Several died.

Six years earlier, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt had vowed to put health care reform “at the heart” of his agenda.

It didn’t work out like that.

Egypt’s public health system was straining badly, the doctor, Ibrahim Bediwy, 27, warned in a message posted online in May. “Any doctor in the current situation is not safe,” he said. “And neither is his family.”

Days after Dr. Bediwy’s post, Mr. el-Sisi’s security officials burst into his parents’ home and whisked him away. He now faces a raft of terrorism-related charges.

For almost every nation on earth, — including the richest —not only has the coronavirus proved an extraordinary, often humbling challenge, it has brought a political reckoning for their leaders. It lifted the fortunes of some, while endangering the futures of others.

In Egypt, the pandemic offered Mr. el-Sisi a chance to showcase the sweeping health care reforms he promised in 2014, at the start of his presidency. Instead, it exposed chronic weaknesses.

In the early months of the crisis, overstretched hospitals struggled badly. Angry doctors went on strike, and those who dared criticize the government’s efforts were thrown in jail. Egypt soon had one of the highest fatality rates in the Arab world.

At the same time, Mr. el-Sisi continued to cut subsidies to the poor while splurging on arms deals for warships and fighter jets totaling at least $12 billion.

Mr. el-Sisi can claim some credit for his pandemic response. With more than 109,000 declared cases and 6,380 deaths, Egypt has been nowhere as badly hit as Europe or the United States.

Yet testing levels remain strikingly low, at 953 tests per 100,000 people, according to data Egypt reports to the World Health Organization, which means that large numbers of cases are likely going undetected. Concerned health experts say this approach is giving the public a false sense of security.

“People tend to believe the pandemic is over,” Dr. Pierre Nabeth of the World Health Organization told a news conference in Cairo last month. “This is an alarming situation because in fact the winter season is starting.”

In the region, Egypt’s testing rate exceeds only the figures of countries in crisis like Yemen (33) and Syria (199), and is far behind Iraq (7,554), Jordan (20,540) and even war-torn Libya (5,421).

And the fragility of Egypt’s underfunded public health system, exposed in the early days of the pandemic, highlights a core element of Mr. el-Sisi’s harsh rule, where a tiered system of privilege perpetuates inequality and rewards a powerful military — often at the expense of an increasingly poor citizenry.

“Weapons purchases and vanity megaprojects have been his priorities, even during the pandemic,” said Michele Dunne, an Egypt scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Egypt’s military has become “increasingly rapacious” under Mr. el-Sisi, she added. “And that has diverted scarce government resources from the critical needs of the Egyptian people.”

Mr. el-Sisi broke his first promise to Egyptians almost as soon as he made it.

Hours after he swept to power in July 2013, backed by troops and tanks, Mr. el-Sisi, then a general, declared that Egypt’s armed forces had no desire to rule.

“They are out of politics,” he said.

It soon became clear, however, that Mr. el-Sisi had no intention of relinquishing power. In June 2014, he won a pro forma presidential election with 95 percent of the vote.

The night he was inaugurated, he delivered a speech that amounted to an authoritarian compact with Egyptians.

In return for limiting political freedoms, Mr. el-Sisi pledged security, prosperity and vastly improved public services. Reforming the health care system was “at the heart” of his plans.

Budgets would soar and new hospitals would be built. Underpaid Egyptian doctors, who had been emigrating to oil-rich Persian Gulf countries in droves, would get a pay rise.

Underpinning those promises was a new Constitution that committed the government to spending 3 percent of Egypt’s gross domestic product on health care every year, effectively doubling the former amount.

But Mr. el-Sisi’s ambitious agenda quickly ran into stiff headwinds. An exploding Islamist insurgency in Sinai blunted his promise of security. A currency crash in 2016 led to painful economic reforms that hit Egypt’s poor the hardest. By last year, the government’s own figures showed that one-third of Egyptians lived in poverty, up from 28 percent in 2015.

Then the pandemic hit.

In the early stages of the virus, it appeared Mr. el-Sisi’s reputation might be burnished by Egypt’s response.

He turned to the military to project an image of swagger and competence. Slick government videos showed soldiers in chemical warfare suits striding through empty streets, spraying disinfectant. Serried rows of military ambulances lined up in the desert, awaiting patients.

Mr. el-Sisi even turned the crisis into a public relations opportunity, dispatching planeloads of medical supplies to other countries in a pointed display of strongman largess.

It was emblematic of the way Mr. el-Sisi has run Egypt, where army generals and security officials dictate who sits in Parliament and even censor soap operas.

Egypt was the world’s third-largest importer of weapons between 2015 and 2019, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Mr. el-Sisi has also committed $58 billion to a sprawling new capital under construction in the desert outside Cairo.

Health budgets rose, too, thanks in part to offshore gas discoveries. But Mr. el-Sisi remains far from his targeted spending of 3 percent of gross domestic product — last year, the figure was between 1.3 percent and 1.8 percent, by different estimates.

Egypt is hardly at the bottom of the list. Indonesia, an economic peer, spends 1.4 percent of its gross domestic product on health. Pakistan clocks in at 0.8 percent.

But in Egypt, where the health care system is fragmented along class lines, the standard of care received by a patient may depend on their status or job.

Of the country’s 740 public hospitals, about 25 cater to the military and another 110 are run by universities or treat police officials and some civil servants.

At the bottom of the ladder are about 600 public hospitals, many in poor condition, where the pandemic hit hardest.

In its fight against the coronavirus, Egypt has sought to balance public health with protecting its economy, World Health Organization officials said. The government eschewed widespread testing, which would be expensive in a country of 100 million people, in favor of allocating resources to hospital care and public awareness campaigns.

Even so, when the first peak hit around April, many patients in Cairo struggled to get treated, doctors went on strike, and the medical doctors’ union warned that the health system was under great strain and headed for “catastrophe.”

The coronavirus response was “typical of Egypt under Sisi,” said Nadim Houry, executive director of the Arab Reform Initiative. “On the surface, things seem to be under control. But underneath, the story is not so good.”

Egypt’s health ministry and the State Information Service did not respond to questions.

Even before the pandemic, the doctors who were key to fulfilling Mr. el-Sisi’s health care promise had continued to flee Egypt, seeking higher wages and better working conditions.

The number of doctors at government hospitals declined from 113,100 in 2014 to 75,700 in 2018, according to government statistics. Just over half the country’s 220,000 registered doctors work abroad, according to the main doctor’s union.

The virus further thinned their ranks.

At least 203 doctors have died, according to Egypt’s main doctors union. Indonesia, which has recorded almost four times the cases of Egypt, has lost 130 doctors.

Upon graduation, doctors earn no more than $190 a month — barely enough to get by. And they and other health professionals continue to head for the airport.

Islam el-Sayes, a pharmacist, earned $300 a month and traveled in cramped buses when he lived in Alexandria. Now working in Saudi Arabia, he has his own car.

“Our leaders spend money on the military, judges and Rafales,” Mr. el-Sayes said, referring to a kind of French warplane. “But not on doctors, hospitals or people.”

Mr. el-Sisi can claim some victories. Life expectancy continues to rise, reaching 72 in 2018. A campaign to eliminate hepatitis C has achieved remarkable progress.

An ambitious new health insurance system promises to revolutionize public health care by regulating quality and ensuring even the poorest Egyptians have access to good treatment. But the new system will take up to 15 years to roll out.

“The early indications are that it’s working,” said Amr el-Shalakani, a senior health specialist at the World Bank, which has contributed $400 million to the first phase.

To fight the pandemic, Mr. el-Sisi allocated $6 billion for an emergency plan that included monthly payments to 1.5 million jobless laborers. And his decision to avoid a hard lockdown may be paying economic dividends.

This coming fiscal year Egypt’s G.D.P. will grow by 2.3 percent, according to the World Bank — far less than is needed to sustain the country’s soaring population, but more than nearly every country in the region.

One promise made by Mr. el-Sisi in June 2014, which he has kept, was to show “no leniency or reconciliation” to his perceived enemies — a category that widened during the pandemic to include dissenting doctors.

Dr. Bediwy remains in detention, one of at least nine medical workers imprisoned for criticizing the government’s handling of the pandemic, according to Amnesty International. His wife gave birth to a daughter, Maria, last month.

The arrests are a test for the World Bank, which in March announced it would not tolerate “reprisals and retaliation against those who share their views about Bank-financed projects.” The Bank has pledged Egypt $58 million in Covid relief.

A spokesman for the World Bank declined to comment on whether the arrests of doctors would affect aid to Egypt, while noting the anti-reprisal policy “applies to all projects approved in support of Egypt.”

Now, as fears of a second wave loom large, disillusioned young doctors continue to emigrate.

Nermene, 27, recently moved to the United States, where her sister, a dentist, already lives.

“It’s not a nice feeling to have to leave home for work,” she said, requesting partial anonymity to avoid reprisals against her family. “But Egyptian hospitals are in a tragic state.”

The Takeaway: Political freedom or better social services? Egyptians got neither under a president who prioritizes the military.





No.16 article:
Georgia’s Close Elections Sent Republicans After a Republican

ATLANTA — Brad Raffensperger, the beleaguered top elections official in Georgia, considers himself the most loyal of Republicans. There was no question which candidates he would support in last week’s election.

“I’ve only ever voted for Republicans,” Mr. Raffensperger said in an interview in his office at the State Capitol on Tuesday. “I’ve been a Republican, or conservative, you know, since I was a teenager.”

Indeed, since taking office in January 2019, Mr. Raffensperger, the secretary of state, has been a target for Democrats in Georgia’s high-stakes, passionate and bitterly partisan voting wars.

In his nearly two years on the job, he has championed policies to guard against a threat of voter fraud that Democrats say hardly exists. He has been the subject of multiple lawsuits, and of television ads blaming him for presiding over a botched June primary that left voters waiting for hours in long lines. Democrats have also accused him of “state sponsored voter intimidation.”

But this week, he became the target of his own party, with the state’s two incumbent Republican senators calling for his resignation and condemning the presidential election as an “embarrassment,” an allegation he called “laughable.” On Wednesday, he authorized a hand recount of Georgia’s ballots for the presidential race — a move championed by President Trump but one officials have said was unlikely to erase President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s narrow but significant lead in the state.

Now Mr. Raffensperger, a civil engineer and a numbers guy who received high marks from national experts on the smooth election operations in Georgia on Nov. 3, finds himself defending an electoral process that he said has no reason to be mistrusted.

Criticism has come from Mr. Trump and the state’s senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, who are each facing competitive January runoffs that could determine control of the Senate. The senators declared in a joint statement on Monday that Mr. Raffensperger had “failed the people of Georgia” and did not deliver “honest and transparent elections.”

“I was fully expecting it to come from the one side,” Mr. Raffensperger said of the criticism. But, he added, “not from your own ranks.”

It was a twist that few saw coming.

Mr. Raffensperger said he had no plans to step down, and emphasized that the statewide vote count was legitimate. There may have been “isolated incidents” of irregularities, he said in the interview this week, and his office was investigating those.

“But we have not heard of any widespread voter fraud,” he said.

The Trump campaign, however, has continued to claim that much went wrong in Georgia’s elections, part of a broader narrative of national voter fraud that has been almost uniformly rejected by elections officials from both parties.

On Tuesday, the campaign and the Georgia Republican Party sent Mr. Raffensperger a letter claiming “hundreds of reports of voting discrepancies,” including “tens of thousands of ballots being unlawfully counted.”

The letter demanded, among other things, a hand recount of the nearly five million votes cast. It also asked that Mr. Raffensperger “trace the chain of custody of the ballots from printing to sending, from receipt to counting” in an election that, because of the coronavirus pandemic, involved hundreds of thousands of mail-in absentee ballots — not unlike the situation in dozens of other states.

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Raffensperger announced a hand recount of ballots in all 159 counties, an order that applies only to the presidential ticket. Even if Mr. Trump were to win Georgia, Mr. Biden has already won the national election.

This week, other Republicans have also raised questions about the election process that Mr. Raffensperger has overseen. Gov. Brian Kemp, a Republican and the former secretary of state, said Mr. Raffensperger needed to take “a serious look” at allegations of irregularities. All members of the 2021 House Republican delegation from Georgia made a similar request.

In his office on Tuesday, Mr. Raffensperger, a tall, silver-haired man with an austere mien, seemed both calm and cautious as he described Georgia’s predicament — as well as his own. Sometimes he looked to Jordan Fuchs, the deputy secretary of state, who reminded him of the first words of answers they had apparently rehearsed.

Asked if he thought he was being thrown under the bus by fellow Republicans, he took what seemed like subtle digs at Mr. Trump, who on Wednesday was trailing Mr. Biden by about 14,000 votes in Georgia, and Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue.

“Well, in Georgia, you have to win over 50 percent, and then you’re not in a runoff,” he said of the senators. “And if you win big, this wouldn’t be an issue.”

The attacks on Mr. Raffensperger have cracked the facade of Republican unity before some of the most important runoff elections in recent American history. They also appear to be a way for Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue to curry favor with Georgians who, like the senators, are devoted fans of the president and outraged about the vote count.

But the strategy also carries some risk. Telling Trump supporters the election process is rigged in Georgia could dissuade them from voting in the runoffs. And the anger over Mr. Raffensperger’s treatment is simmering among some longtime Republicans.

Leo Smith, a consultant with Mr. Raffensperger’s office and a former diversity recruitment director with the state’s Republican Party, called the criticism of the Georgia vote “an insult to those hard-working, committed Republicans who oversaw the election.” In an interview, Mr. Smith described Mr. Raffensperger’s critics as “people who were caught in this poor leadership from a petulant president who has lost, and is using his loss to bully other Republicans into complying with conspiracy theories about voting.”

Mr. Raffensperger, 65, began his political career on the City Council in the affluent northern Atlanta suburb of Johns Creek. In public, he exhibits a kind of punctilious blandness, with a voice that rarely rises above the dispassionate tone of a functionary behind the desk at a Department of Motor Vehicles office.

Even so he is considered highly ambitious, and observers note that Mr. Kemp showed how the secretary of state’s office could be used as a springboard.

After his City Council stint, Mr. Raffensperger, who is married and has two living adult sons and a third who died in 2018, spent a few years in the State Legislature. In his 2018 bid for the secretary of state, he lent his campaign hundreds of thousands of dollars, telling voters he would focus on “protecting our elections,” particularly from immigrants who entered the country illegally.

He did not garner more than 50 percent of the vote and ended up in a runoff with a Democrat, former U.S. Representative John Barrow, at a time when much of the nation had begun asking whether Georgia’s election system was truly fair.

A few weeks earlier, Stacey Abrams, a rising star in the Democratic Party, had narrowly lost to Mr. Kemp in her bid to become the state’s first Black governor. Along the way, she and her supporters had argued that Mr. Kemp had been helped by voter suppression tactics he had engaged in as secretary of state.

Shortly after Ms. Abrams’s loss, an organization she founded, Fair Fight Action, filed a lawsuit that claimed the state had dropped more than 100,000 inactive voters from its rolls. As a result of the lawsuit, 22,000 were reinstated.

Last year, state lawmakers passed legislation that lengthened how long registered voters could be inactive before their names could be purged. The Legislature also virtually eliminated a rule that signatures on voter registration cards had to be matched to other records.

Fair Fight Action has continued to take a central role in criticizing Mr. Raffensperger’s election policies in a state where Republican dominance has been challenged by a resurgent Democratic Party, fueled in part by changing demographics.

In April, Lauren Groh-Wargo, Fair Fight Action’s chief executive, criticized Mr. Raffensperger after he announced the creation of an absentee ballot fraud task force, anticipating the widespread use of such ballots during the pandemic.

When Mr. Raffensperger took office last year, he inherited litigation that challenged the safety of the state’s voting machines, claiming they were vulnerable to hacking, and was charged with introducing a new system. Its complexity — combined with no-shows by hundreds of poll workers who feared catching the virus — led to a meltdown during Georgia’s primary in June, with machine malfunctions and long lines.

Hoping to avoid a similar disaster during the general election, county officials, aided by the state and nonprofit groups, began a massive poll worker recruitment effort and Mr. Raffensperger vowed to send technicians to every polling site on Election Day. Voters across Georgia were inundated with the message that they should vote by absentee ballots or at early voting sites.

The result was record turnout in Georgia and smooth in-person voting on Nov. 3.

Andrea Young, the executive director of the A.C.L.U. of Georgia, praised Mr. Raffensperger’s handling of this year’s general election and characterized this week’s criticism as “voter suppression 2.0.”

“As a child of the South,” she said, “it just sounds like too many Black people voted and we don’t like it.”

But now those numbers are being questioned. Mr. Raffensperger said he only wanted to inspire trust in the system, even as it appeared to be slipping away.

“At the end of the day, half the people will be happy. Half the people will be sad,” he said. “But what our goal is, is that 100 percent of the people have confidence in the result of the elections.”





No.17 article:
A Sick Swan Is Saved After a 23-Mile Odyssey by Foot, Car and Subway

A woman with the right training noticed a bird’s odd behavior and made it her mission to undertake a very urban rescue.

Ariel Cordova-Rojas had planned to spend last Thursday afternoon immersed in nature. It was the day before her 30th birthday, and her intention was to ride her bike to Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge in Queens, watch birds fly overhead and hike amid the vibrant fall foliage.

Instead, she spent a good chunk of the day in a frantic race to rescue a sickly swan, rushing by foot and then subway from Queens to Brooklyn before ultimately arriving at an animal rehabilitation center on Manhattan’s Upper West Side.

She was not upset that the day had not gone according to plan.

“If there’s an animal in need,” she said, “I’m going to do whatever I can.”

Ms. Cordova-Rojas had not been at the refuge long when she encountered a female mute swan that looked as though it might be sick. The bird caught her attention because it was sitting alone on some grass near the water’s edge, surrounded by other birds on the water.

Ms. Cordova-Rojas had been trained to spot a bird in distress. She spent five years as an animal care manager at the Wild Bird Fund rehabilitation center in Manhattan, rescuing geese in Central Park, red-tailed hawks in Brooklyn and other species elsewhere in the city.

So when the swan did not move or make a sound when she approached, she knew something was not right. Mute swans are typically territorial and aggressive. As she got closer, the bird tried to drag its body forward with its wings in a feeble bid to swim off.

There was “obviously something wrong” with the swan, Ms. Cordova-Rojas said. Despite her background, she was unsure what to do. She had her bike but not her rescue gear, and she was around an hour’s drive from the Wild Bird Fund center.

She decided to approach the swan slowly, take off her jacket and place it over the bird. The swan tried to move its wings and it made faint sounds, but Ms. Cordova-Rojas said she was able to wrap the coat around the animal quickly and pick it up.

“Well, I’m carrying a swan,” she recalled thinking. “I have no idea what to do. I guess I’m just going to walk.”

The one-mile hike back to where she had left her bike “was a bit of a struggle,” she said, especially carrying an animal that later weighed in at around 17 pounds.

Josh Spector was also at the refuge, having traveled there from the Park Slope section of Brooklyn earlier in the day. He said he was immediately confused when he saw Ms. Cordova-Rojas with the swan.

“Is this actually her pet and she’s walking it through here?” he recalled thinking. He said that he and a friend had considered shrugging off the scene “as another crazy New York thing, but decided not to.”

Mr. Spector said he had struck up a conversation with Ms. Cordova-Rojas and had taken some pictures of her and the swan, but could not offer much help because he had also biked to the refuge.

After making it back to her bike, Ms. Cordova-Rojas said she called various animal rescue services without any luck. The ranger stations in the park were closed, and an animal care center in Brooklyn was unable to send anyone out.

Help arrived after about a half-hour in the form of a husband and wife who offered to drive the swan to the subway. When Ms. Cordova-Rojas, the swan and the bicycle could not all fit in the couple’s car, the woman, who happened to volunteer rescuing cats, persuaded a friend to drive over and help.

They all drove to the Howard Beach subway station, where the husband, a Metropolitan Transportation Authority employee, helped Ms. Cordova-Rojas lug her bike and the swan to the platform and then onto the A train.

Ms. Cordova-Rojas placed the swan, still wrapped in the coat, at the end of a long seat. She called friends and former colleagues at the Wild Bird Fund and asked that they meet her.

“Meanwhile, there’s a few people on the train and nobody seems to be fazed,” she said. One man, she added, was “sitting right in front of me and he’s just on his phone. I don’t even know if he noticed there was a swan in front of him.”

Tristan Higginbotham, an animal care manager at the Wild Bird Fund, met Ms. Cordova-Rojas at the Nostrand Avenue station in Brooklyn. Ms. Higginbotham, too, was unfazed by the sight of Ms. Cordova-Rojas holding the swan in her left hand while propping up a bike with her right.

“That’s just like the perfect summary of who she is,” Ms. Higginbotham said.

Two car rides later, the swan and Ms. Cordova-Rojas reached the Wild Bird Fund. Staff members there determined that it was a bit underweight; tests also found signs of lead poisoning, which can happen when swans ingest weights used on fishing lines, among other things.

On Tuesday, the bird was undergoing treatment and would be reassessed in a few weeks, Ms. Higginbotham said.

Ms. Higginbotham said that the New York City Audubon Society, where she volunteers, had received reports recently about a sick mute swan at the refuge, but staff members had not been able to find it.

Mute swans are not native to North America. They were introduced to the northeastern United States from Western Europe in the 19th century as pets and as decorations for parks and ponds.

As an invasive species, the mute swan has stirred debate in New York. In 2014, state conservation officials set a goal of eliminating virtually all of the birds within 11 years, largely because they are known to destroy the habitats of native ducks and geese and can pose a risk to passenger jets. But the proposal attracted strong opposition, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo ultimately signed legislation blocking it.

Ms. Cordova-Rojas was happy to rescue one swan.

“That was kind of the perfect culmination of my 20s,” she said. “It was the perfect birthday present to be in nature and be able to save a life.”





No.18 article:
Pick the Worst of Trump’s Worst

A plethora of awful alternatives.

We’ve been through a lot these last few days, people. Decades from now, some of you are going to have to answer your grandchildren when they ask you about the Time of the Two Presidents.

Donald Trump’s resistance to the idea that he lost the election isn’t a surprise. This is a man, former star of a phony-reality TV show, who almost never admits he’s lost/failed/come in second at anything. Who knows what new adventures we’ll have before Inauguration Day? I’m hoping he’ll refuse to leave his room and security agents will end up carrying him out of the White House in a blanket.

Which blanket would then be shredded into little bitty tufts of cloth and sold to benefit Trump’s Official Election Defense Fund. Or perhaps its successor, the Make Mar-a-Lago Great Again Crusade.

Meanwhile, if you had to pick one seminal moment in the Trump resistance, it really ought to be Rudy Giuliani’s press conference announcing the president would not concede. So many reasons this gets top billing. Not the least was that Giuliani’s prime witness, introduced to back up claims of voter fraud, turned out to be a convicted sex offender.

Like many of the witnesses Trump’s team was mobilizing, Daryl Brooks seemed to have a vague mission in election oversight — he said he “wanted to go to the polls to watch.” There were definitely a lot of Republicans who, like Brooks, felt they hadn’t been allowed to get close enough to the action and suspected something was being hidden.

But experts searching high and low failed to find any evidence of the kind of serious, widespread irregularities that might call the results into question. Instead, the public got … Giuliani. Who held his press conference at a place called Four Seasons Total Landscaping in Philadelphia. This seemed to give Trump the pleasant impression the event was in the swank Four Seasons Hotel, instead of a humble gardening service store near a crematory and a sex shop.

Rudy emphasized that Brooks was just the first of what were going to be “many, many witnesses” of election fraud. Inquiring minds wanted to know why, in that case, he chose to lead off with a guy who served jail time for exposing himself to two girls, owed a great deal of money in overdue child support payments and, if known at all in his home state, New Jersey, it is as one of those guys who keeps running for offices he’s never going to win in a million years.

The whole Trump resistance has a nutty flavor. The family is sending out emails assuring supporters that victory is around the corner, just so long as a check is in the mail. “We’ve found ballots in drainage ditches,” warned Eric Trump, who reminded his readers that the Official Election Defense Fund was open for donations.

We’re just two weeks from Thanksgiving and I know you all have a lot of priorities. Tell me which you would rather invest your money in:

A. Charities that give food for the poor.

B. Outdoor heaters so you can, maybe, have a safe little party for friends and family.

C. Trump Official Election Defense Fund.

We may be going into a very weird and freaky holiday season. The current leader of The Most Powerful Nation on the Globe is refusing to acknowledge, let alone offer any help, to President-elect Joe Biden. Instead, Trump was busy pushing out top officials in the Defense Department. Hey — do you remember all the times you talked over the last year about what would happen if Trump lost and refused to go away? Everybody agreed that the military would never allow that kind of coup d’état, right? The guys from … the Defense Department.

No reason to get panicky here. But the way Trump’s minions are standing behind his rebellion is pretty disgusting. The head of the General Services Administration isn’t working with the incoming Biden folk, leaving them unable — among many, many other things — to process financial disclosure and conflict-of-interest forms for their nominees.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, given the chance to encourage his staff to help Biden, predicted “there will be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration.”

Secretary Pompeo, do you really think this is a good plan? We know you want to hang onto the Trump supporters in case you run for the Senate — or, what the hell, go off and become a pathologically wealthy lobbyist/consultant. But really, do you want to be known as the guy who out-Rudied Rudy?

And Attorney General Bill Barr is just encouraging his boss’s monomania, calling for his own Justice Department to investigate “substantial allegations” of voter fraud. The official in charge of such investigations quit in response.

Hey, we’ve got a real competition underway here. Who’s the most irresponsible member of the Trump orbit? Besides, obviously, Himself.

Send me your pick in the comments below. Winners to be announced before the turkey and stuffing are ready.





No.19 article:
Augusta’s Green Jackets: For Winners, Members (and Buyers) Only

AUGUSTA, Ga. — Christopher O’Brien is not a member of Augusta National Golf Club, much less a Masters champion. He once played the course “well enough to enjoy it, not well enough to brag about it.”

But at his home in Greenwich, Conn., a mannequin stands shrouded in one of Augusta National’s famed green jackets, customarily draped on victors of the 86-year-old Masters tournament, one of golf’s four majors, and club members. He purchased it at auction for less than $17,000.

“I took a chance because if you really think about it, it’s one of the most iconic pieces of sports memorabilia you could get,” he said in a telephone interview. “I have 400 or 500 pieces, and there are always three or four where people walk in and say, ‘What the heck is that?’ And that’s one of them.”

With the exception of the reigning champion’s blazer, which can go home with a winner until he returns it for safekeeping the next year, no jackets are permitted to leave the club’s grounds, at least according to Augusta National’s lore.

That has cultivated a widespread belief that almost all of those tailored symbols of golf history — presented annually to winners since 1949 and so renowned that a club official once publicly compared their status to the Statue of Liberty — are confined to several hundred cloistered acres of east Georgia.

But that is not true. It has not been true for more than half a century.

Perhaps “the most coveted award in all the golfing world,” as Augusta National once put it in a court filing, is to be presented under tightly guarded conditions on Sunday, when this year’s pandemic-delayed Masters is scheduled to conclude. What has become clear in recent years, though, is that for all of the club’s determination, it does not have absolute control over all of the gold-buttoned blazers that are emblems of its power and mystique.

Augusta National’s estimated 300 or so members also wear the blazers, like the one O’Brien now has, when they are at the invitation-only club, its roster a Who’s Who of international business, politics, sports and technology. But an unclear number of green jackets also exist in exile as family heirlooms, museum exhibits, showpieces for the wealthy and, at a course near Cleveland, a prized tribute to the man who won the Masters and then became the club’s head pro. Gary Player’s first jacket, which he took back to South Africa with him in a fit of ecstasy in 1961, is still there, having cloaked him as a new champion in Georgia and, from time to time in the decades that followed, as a man having dinner at home.

Player being Player, an impish and popular nine-time winner of major tournaments, that has proved acceptable. But the circumstances and desires that can surround one of the most renowned sartorial traditions in sports have sometimes led to trouble, with potential transactions occasionally giving way to trails of litigation and accusations of theft and deceit.

A spokesman for Augusta National declined to comment. The club, though, has long asserted that it owns the jackets and loans them to members, who first began to receive blazers in 1937, and winners. In a filing last year with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, lawyers for the club said it had “instituted firm control over the wearing of the Green Jacket through the propagation and enforcement of strict rules in order to protect the brand” and that the blazers “cannot be sold or given to third parties under any circumstances.”

Yet the jacket that belonged to Byron Nelson, who won the first of his two Masters titles in 1937, was last known to be in the care of a wealth manager based in London, long after Augusta National retroactively presented blazers to pre-1949 winners.

For a while, a man near Philadelphia with a golf museum in his home owned a blazer believed to have belonged to Bobby Jones, an Augusta National founder. A late member’s great-grandson kept a jacket in a Maryland closet. The Jack Nicklaus Museum at Ohio State University has one that Augusta National lent it. Horton Smith won the first (and third) Masters tournaments in the 1930s but had his name stripped from a P.G.A. award this year for his racist views. His coat spent decades with distant relatives until they sold it at auction in 2013 for $682,229. And so on.

The market has been active for more than a decade, but it is sporadic. A company that was until recently known as Green Jacket Auctions sold more than a dozen over the years at an average price of nearly $78,000.

“I wanted the jacket to go somewhere other than hanging in my closet,” Mike Lackovic, whose stepfather was Smith’s brother, said this month. About seven years ago, Lackovic and his brother had put the blazer up for auction. “I wanted somebody to display it, maybe put it in a museum. We had it for 20, 30 years, and it was ridiculous.”

The sale price, though, stunned him. He had only insured the jacket for $50,000 and had occasionally shown it to friends, who were largely nonplused.

“As strange as it was, not a whole lot of people were interested,” he said. “After it sold for $682,000, they said, ‘Wow, we didn’t know it was that valuable.’ Well, I didn’t either.”

The jacket O’Brien purchased through another auction house belonged to W. Ronald Alexander, a bus-manufacturing magnate who was an Augusta member before he died in St. Andrews, Scotland — home to the Royal and Ancient Golf Club — in 2006.

O’Brien was perhaps a decade into collecting sports memorabilia when the Alexander jacket surfaced for sale. He had grown up watching golf on television alongside his father, with the Masters an intergenerational rite of spring. And a green jacket, he reasoned, would be the centerpiece of a golf collection, much like a baseball signed by Babe Ruth can anchor a gallery of baseball memorabilia.

It arrived by mail — “just like you bought a suit at Saks Fifth Avenue,” he said — and took its place on the mannequin.

He wondered then, and sometimes still does, whether Augusta National might intervene. It has done so before, including in 2013, when the club asked a judge in Dallas to block the sale of Art Wall Jr.’s 1959 championship jacket, which a Florida doctor had purchased at auction less than a year earlier for $61,452.55.

The club said the coat had been stolen, not by the doctor but by some of Augusta’s employees. The workers, Augusta National said, had also taken three other blazers, all of which were recovered.

“The green jacket to Augusta is the Statue of Liberty to New York or the Mona Lisa to the Louvre,” Jim James, a club official, testified at a hearing, according to a contemporaneous Dallas Morning News report.

Court records show the case ended with a settlement that included Augusta taking possession of the jacket with a handoff in New York City on Halloween in 2013.

Augusta turned to similarly aggressive tactics later in the decade, when it sued Green Jacket Auctions in Federal District Court over its plans to sell three blazers. (The club also objected to an auction that would “release its proprietary silverware into the stream of commerce.”)

That case was also settled on undisclosed terms. Green Jacket Auctions, now known as Golden Age Golf Auctions, cited “certain relationships and arrangements we’ve made” when it declined to comment for this article.

From time to time, though, Augusta National effectively assented to the jackets not remaining behind its gates, particularly if a blazer was in the possession of a former Masters winner.

Player, a three-time champion, recalled this year that he had rushed to the airport with the jacket after his victory in 1961. After his second-place finish the next year and with his blazer unreturned, Clifford Roberts, Augusta National’s co-founder and longtime chairman, called to ask after the jacket and, ultimately, to tell Player that it was supposed to be back at the club.

“With tongue in cheek, I suggested if he wanted it back he would have to personally come and get it in South Africa,” Player said in an email. “We had a good relationship, and he laughed and simply asked that I don’t wear it out in public, which I never did.”

But, he acknowledged, “I did host several dinners in my home wearing it with great pride.”

Seve Ballesteros, who won in 1980, forgot to bring his back to the United States from his home in Spain the following year. Ballesteros died in 2011, and his children regard their father’s jacket as a fixture there.

“Since they were small kids, Seve’s sons and daughter had always seen the green jacket in their dad’s trophy room,” said Rosario Sordo, who works for the foundation that bears Ballesteros’s name. “Since their early days they have always been familiar with the green jacket at Seve’s home in Pedreña. It is where Seve left it.”

In Connecticut, O’Brien, who will sometimes let children try on one of Shaquille O’Neal’s enormous sneakers, another item in his collection, treats the green jacket with undisturbed reverence. He appeared aghast at the thought of regularly donning it himself, as others who have purchased jackets sometimes have.

“It would be like taking your Babe Ruth baseball and going outside and hitting it around,” he said. “For me, there’s something very special about it that says winner or member or nobody.”





No.20 article:
Meet Maria Bakalova, the Breakout Star of the ‘Borat’ Sequel

Sacha Baron Cohen may be the star of “Borat Subsequent Moviefilm,” but it is Maria Bakalova who has emerged its hero.

In this raucous prank comedy, now streaming on Amazon, Bakalova plays Tutar Sagdiyev, the downtrodden 15-year-old daughter of the titular Kazakh journalist portrayed by Baron Cohen. Raised in a barn and miseducated by her oblivious father, Tutar contrives a way to accompany Borat on his latest journey to the United States, becoming both the bait and the co-conspirator in her father’s schemes to deliver her to Vice President Mike Pence.

Through numerous awkward encounters with unsuspecting marks — including a now-infamous interview with Rudolph W. Giuliani — Tutar discovers her self-worth while calling attention to the quiet (and sometimes not-so-quiet) misogyny around her.

It is a breakthrough performance for Bakalova, a 24-year-old Bulgarian actress whose previous film and television work (including the Italian TV crime drama “Gomorrah”) had yet to bring her the kind of acclaim that one gains for playing a naïve teen who is unaware that women can read, drive or masturbate.

As Bakalova explained in a Zoom conversation on Tuesday, she sees the “Borat” sequel as being fundamentally the story of Tutar’s education and liberation. “It’s a movie of how a girl can grow up and should grow up,” she said, speaking from Los Angeles, where she currently lives. “How people can treat you as not equal because you’re a woman and what kind of options you have.”

For Bakalova, a prominent role in a major American film is also a satisfying opportunity to honor her home country.

“Things like that are not happening to people like us, Bulgarians,” she said. “Most of the time, there is eventually a small, small extra part in a movie, two or three lines as like a prostitute or a Mafia guy. I will be really grateful to Sacha for giving this platform to an Eastern European, to play a strong and complicated character who’s not just one thing.”

Bakalova spoke further about the making of “Borat Subsequent Moviefilm,” her work with Baron Cohen and her highly scrutinized scene with Giuliani. These are edited excerpts from that conversation.

What was your upbringing in Bulgaria like? How did you get into performing?

I started singing at the age of 5 or 6 and then I started flute lessons. But at some point, I wanted to explore more. I wanted to escape from reality. Because in acting, you can become anybody. You can do everything. You can live on Mars. I was really obsessed with Scandinavian cinema and the Dogme 95 movement, and inspired by actresses like Meryl Streep, Nicole Kidman and Natalie Portman — how strong they can be and the important stories they can tell.

Were you ever a prankster or practical joker?

Actually, no. I was a super-disciplined child. I was reading too many books. I was obsessed with Dostoyevsky, at like 15, 16. When the first “Borat” movie was released [in 2006], I was 10, so I never even watched it before they gave me the part. But even if I had, I for sure wouldn’t have understood it.

How did you come to be cast in the sequel?

I heard from a friend there was an open call for the lead role in a Hollywood movie. And I was like, that’s not possible. We are Bulgarians. Nobody can actually see us in lead roles. I sent out self-tapes, then they called me for a screen test in London. But the project was so confidential, I was like, is this actually a project? I was sure it was going to be a human trafficking situation. I had no idea I was going to meet Sacha — it was a surprise.

How did you prepare with him in London?

There were three days of screen tests. The first one, we had a small rehearsal; the second one, we started working with real people. They had to believe that we’re real people, that we are not actors, for this to work for the movie. We had to stay undercover.

So it’s you and Sacha playing Tutar and Borat together. Who were you acting opposite and how did you pick them?

It was at a house and there was a super-sweet, nice old couple from England. And we went at them in our crazy way. I’m not quite sure that I know how they actually did it. At the same time, let’s not break the idea of how the magic is happening. Sacha is the person who knows how this whole machine is running.

As you started making the film, how did Sacha describe the character of Tutar to you?

Sacha explained that Tutar should be as crazy as Borat, maybe even crazier. She should be completely disoriented — what is right, what is wrong — and through this journey, she should learn how to be a normal human. It’s a satirical movie, it’s over the top, but he got me thinking about me what it would be like, living this life, even if it’s fake. He’d be like, would you be happy if people treated you this way — if the whole purpose of your life was to get married and live in a cage?

And how her perspective would be warped by a sexist manual that misinforms her about her own body?

The manual is a metaphor for how society and the patriarchy are asking us to behave and what people are expecting. Should I be ashamed that I menstruate? Should I be ashamed that I have body hair? Should I be ashamed that I’m a woman? That’s what Tutar has believed from the beginning, and Sacha wanted to show that in 2020, this is a moment when people should start treating each other equally.

When we first meet Tutar, she is in an extremely degraded state. How did you approach those scenes?

It’s something like hypnosis. You’re just going for it. We actually decided that I would grow out my real body hair. L.A.’s hot almost all the time. Every time I’m supposed to wear a dress or a top, you were able to see my armpit hair and leg hair. It was kind of gross. My facial hair never grows. I tried my best. But my eyebrows are never growing out. The facial part is because of my makeup artist, Katy Fray, but everything else is completely natural. It was so interesting when I finally shaved — I was able to feel the wind on my arms and my legs.

Were there ever times when it was hard for you to stay in character?

When Sacha starts doing his thing, and you’re right next to him, he has this super serious face. I have to act like it’s the most normal thing ever. But he’s so funny. There were moments when the scene was extremely funny and you just can’t stop laughing. It’s bad, because people were able to realize that it’s a joke. He taught me a trick to cross my fingers, to put pressure on my fingers, to stop laughing.

Were there any marks that you sympathized with? Jeanise Jones, the woman hired as Tutar’s babysitter, was extremely kind to you — did you feel you were deceiving her?

We spent maybe five, six hours with Jeanise and she is the person you see onscreen. She is just incredible. She’s not an actress — she just wanted to help Tutar and for Tutar to appreciate herself, to follow her dreams and educate herself. We need people like Jeanise. She is an angel.

Were there ever times when you felt that you were in physical danger?

Sacha, he’s my nonbiological father and he will be like that forever. So I trusted him from the beginning and I knew he would never put me in a dangerous situation. At the same time, we had a security team that was able to save us in a moment. Maybe the scene when we were at the hotel and Rudy Giuliani called the police, I was kind of scared that something would happen. But fortunately, we escaped.

Did you know who Giuliani was before you recorded your interview with him?

I knew who he was, because 9/11 is something everybody should know. It’s one of the hardest moments in recent history. But I’m not American, I don’t get into American politics. I don’t think I’m that informed with the situation in America and its political system. Sacha has been living here for a long time. I trust him.

How did you and Sacha prepare to shoot that scene?

We’d been talking a lot about different scenarios. How should I act, this way or this way? What should I do? What is smarter? But in all of the scenarios, I was confident that Sacha will save me and he will save the scene, so it’s not going to be a disaster. He’s my guardian angel.

Were you still nervous about filming it?

Yeah. I was nervous. My heart was racing. But Sacha was like, you should be nervous in this situation. So use your nerves. Convert them and accept them and they’re going to help you through everything.

Giuliani has said that he was never inappropriate to you and that he was tucking in his shirt, but other viewers believe he was doing something illicit. What happened in that scene?

[Laughs] I saw everything that you saw. If you saw the movie, that’s our message. We want everybody to see the movie and judge for themselves.

But did you come to a conclusion yourself as to what he was doing?

I believe it’s my back [to the camera] there, we can see what he’s doing in the mirror.

What do you think was taking place? You’re the only other person who was in the room. Did you have any other indication as to what he was doing?

[Long pause] What do you think he was doing?

I can see how either interpretation could be correct. But I wasn’t there, and you were. Do you have an opinion either way?

Sacha jumped into the room quickly, because he’s been worried about me. So, if he were late, I don’t know how things were going to go. But he came just in time.

Did Giuliani think that Tutar was 15 years old when he agreed to do the interview?

I’m not the person who is actually booking these people, so when we get to the scene, I’m just doing the scene, without introducing myself. I’m not sure what he knows or does not know.

Giuliani has been widely mocked and criticized for being duped by you and the “Borat” filmmakers. Do you feel bad at all for that?

Movies like this are showing people’s true colors. It’s going to show Jeanise’s true colors. It’s going to show the real character of [Judith Dim Evans], the lady in the synagogue. It’s going to show Rudy’s real character. You’re responsible for your own decisions. So, no, I don’t feel bad.

What have you since learned about Americans, living among them after the film’s release?

I was extremely happy to see how happy people were over the weekend [following the presidential election]. Because in my country, there has been years and years, through different systems, when people haven’t had the right to vote. Now seeing that people are actually voting, and all over the streets people were celebrating and crying and dancing and singing. It was probably one of the most beautiful things I’ve seen in my life. It was really inspiring, seeing that there is, for the first time in history, a woman as vice president. Like in the movie, women can do anything. And sometimes we can do it better.





No.21 article:
Biden Names Ron Klain as White House Chief of Staff

Mr. Klain, a lawyer and veteran Democratic operative who first worked for the president-elect in the late 1980s when he was a senator, has been a sharp critic of President Trump’s handling of the coronavirus.

WILMINGTON, Del. — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. named Ron Klain, a veteran Democratic operative and a decades-long confidant, to be his White House chief of staff Wednesday evening, the first step toward putting in place his administration’s senior leadership.

Mr. Klain, a lawyer with deep experience on Capitol Hill, with advising President Barack Obama and in corporate board rooms, served as Mr. Biden’s chief of staff when he was vice president and has been seen for months as the likeliest choice to manage his team in the White House. Known for steady nerves, he also has a fierce wit, which he has frequently unleashed on President Trump on Twitter.

He was particularly critical of Mr. Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, having served as the “Ebola czar” under Mr. Obama during an outbreak of the deadly disease in his second term. A video of Mr. Klain lecturing Mr. Trump about the pandemic was widely seen during the campaign.

In a statement, Mr. Biden called Mr. Klain an “invaluable” adviser, noting in particular the work they did together during the economic crisis in 2009 and the Ebola outbreak in 2014.

“His deep, varied experience and capacity to work with people all across the political spectrum is precisely what I need in a White House chief of staff as we confront this moment of crisis and bring our country together again,” Mr. Biden said.

The choice of Mr. Klain, 59, who first went to work for Mr. Biden in the late 1980s when Mr. Biden was a senator from Delaware and Mr. Klain was a recent graduate of Harvard Law School, signals that Mr. Biden intends to rely on a tight circle of Washington insiders who have been by his side for years.

Advisers have said that the president-elect will announce other top White House staff in the coming days, even as Mr. Trump refuses to accept the results of the election, tweeting “WE WILL WIN!” on Wednesday evening.

Mr. Biden is not likely to reveal his cabinet picks until around Thanksgiving, several people close to the transition said.

As a political tactician, Mr. Klain is well versed in the levers of power in both the executive and legislative branches of government. But he will quickly come under pressure to assemble a White House staff that extends beyond the moderate members of the Democratic establishment with whom Mr. Biden has surrounded himself over four decades in politics.

Even before Mr. Biden’s announcement, liberals in the party had already begun demanding that progressives be given a significant voice in the West Wing. And the president-elect will also be pressed to fulfill his campaign pledge to make his administration “look like the country” by tapping people of color, L.G.B.T.Q. Americans and other minorities to be part of the White House staff.

In a statement, Mr. Klain said he looked forward to assembling “a talented and diverse team to work in the White House as we tackle their ambitious agenda for change and seek to heal the divides in our country.”

Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, one of Mr. Biden’s liberal rivals for the presidential nomination, praised Mr. Klain on Twitter, calling him “a superb choice” and saying that he “understands the magnitude of the health and economic crisis and he has the experience to lead this next administration through it.”

Mr. Biden made his choice of Mr. Klain even as Mr. Trump remained defiant in the face of political reality, refusing to concede defeat and insisting that the presidential election was stolen from him four days after news organizations projected that Mr. Biden had secured the electoral votes necessary to win.

Mr. Trump and his allies — including most Republicans on Capitol Hill — have falsely claimed that the election was tainted by fraudulently cast ballots and a conspiracy by Democrats, poll workers and the news media. The president’s lawyers have filed lawsuits in several states and his operatives are scouring for examples of fraud even as Democratic and Republican election officials in nearly all 50 states say the election was fair.

In the meantime, Mr. Biden is moving quickly to demonstrate that the president’s unprecedented behavior will not interfere with the transfer of power that will take place on Jan. 20.

Mr. Klain clerked for Justice Byron R. White at the Supreme Court in the late 1980s and has been a fixture by Mr. Biden’s side for much of the past 30 years, serving at one point as the chief counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee, which Mr. Biden led.

Mr. Klain was Mr. Biden’s top legal adviser on the committee during the racially charged and sexually explicit collision with the Bush administration over the confirmation of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. Many of Mr. Biden’s allies saw his handling of the confirmation — managed in large part by Mr. Klain and his team of committee lawyers — as one of the stains on his record in the Senate.

Mr. Klain took a detour to serve as Al Gore’s chief of staff while he was vice president and later oversaw Mr. Gore’s unsuccessful recount effort in Florida (for which he was portrayed by Kevin Spacey in the HBO film “Recount”).

But Mr. Klain has always remained close to Mr. Biden. In 2009, he became the vice president’s chief of staff, reprising the role he had played a decade earlier for Mr. Gore.

Mr. Klain’s experience confronting the Ebola outbreak during the Obama administration was newly relevant this year as the coronavirus pandemic upended American life and became Mr. Biden’s central message during the presidential race.

The Biden campaign leaned on Mr. Klain’s expertise as it drew a contrast between the way Mr. Biden would approach the pandemic and the way Mr. Trump did. In March, the campaign released a video of Mr. Klain speaking in front of a white board comparing the two approaches that has been viewed more than four million times on Twitter. A sequel, again featuring Mr. Klain in front of a white board, was posted in July.

In the last few weeks of the campaign, Mr. Trump sought to use Mr. Klain’s own words against him with a video in which Mr. Klain appears to admit that the Obama administration “did every possible thing wrong” during an outbreak of the H1N1 swine flu virus. Fact checkers concluded that Mr. Klain was speaking only about the reliance on a single vaccine, and was taken out of context.

Mr. Klain has gone in and out of government over the past several decades, at times practicing as a lawyer and later working with Steve Case, the founder of AOL, in a venture capital investment firm called Revolution. His initial agreement with Mr. Case in 2005 included the right to take unpaid leave in September and October every four years to participate in presidential politics.

“He can process a lot of information, focus on the things that matter and balance a lot of balls,” Mr. Case said of Mr. Klain, calling him “unflappable” and pragmatic when it comes to confronting a challenge: “‘Here’s the problem or the opportunity. Let’s narrow in on what matters and get the right team in place.’”

Mr. Case dismissed concerns from some people that Mr. Klain was too much of a Washington insider for this moment in history, noting that as an Indiana native, Mr. Klain often goes home for the Indianapolis 500.

“He’s been in Washington a long time,” Mr. Case said. But he added, “He’s an Indiana guy.”

Over his years mingling among the nation’s top Democratic politicians, Mr. Klain has become a specialist in helping presidents win confirmation battles in the Senate. During Mr. Obama’s first term, he played a central role in helping win confirmation of Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court.

He also developed a reputation as the Democratic Party’s expert on debate preparation, coaching virtually all of the party’s presidential and vice-presidential nominees during the last two decades. He made little secret of his frustration with sitting presidents — including Mr. Obama — complaining that they too often refused to prepare.

A memo for his clients that Mr. Klain prepared years ago has become memorialized as the party’s best advice for its candidates. Among the 21 rules that he outlined: No. 10, “Punches are good, counterpunches are better”; No. 13, which says that a candidate can lose a debate at any time but that “you can only win it in the first 30 minutes”; and No. 20, which warns not to say something that does not feel right.

“At that moment remember the advice that some elementary schoolteacher once gave you: ‘If in doubt, don’t,’” Mr. Klain wrote.

Throughout the 2020 campaign, Mr. Klain was a top adviser to Mr. Biden and was deeply trusted by a candidate known for maintaining a tight-knit inner circle. He was not especially involved in logistical, day-to-day decisions, but along with Anita Dunn, a senior Biden adviser, he played a central role in guiding Mr. Biden’s debate preparations and message.

A number of Biden allies have noted Mr. Klain’s experience dealing with economic and health crises during the Obama administration, when the country was reeling from the Great Recession. In the 2016 campaign, Mr. Klain helped Hillary Clinton prepare for debates, a task he began working on before Mr. Biden announced he would not mount his own presidential bid.

“It’s been a little hard for me to play such a role in the Biden demise — and I am definitely dead to them — but I’m glad to be on Team HRC,” Mr. Klain wrote to John D. Podesta, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, in an October 2015 email that was later disclosed by WikiLeaks. A week after Mr. Klain sent the email, Mr. Biden announced he would not run for president in 2016.

Mr. Klain was also the inaugural guest on a short-lived podcast that Mr. Biden hosted this year, speaking about the pandemic. “I’m going to call on you a lot more,” Mr. Biden told him at the end of the episode. “You know, I call on you almost every day for non-pod advice.”

At a Biden virtual fund-raiser in June for Indiana donors, former Senator Joe Donnelly made note of Mr. Klain’s work on the Ebola outbreak for the Obama White House.

At the virtual event, Mr. Klain, it turned out, was not far out of mind for the former vice president. “As a matter of fact, coincidentally, literally five minutes before I walked into this makeshift studio, I was on the phone with Ron Klain,” Mr. Biden said.





No.22 article:
Our Big Live Experiment

Inside our Election Day broadcast.

Hello, Daily listeners! While we wait to find out who the next president of the United States is, we wanted to give you a look back at this week on the show (unless you are currently supposed to be counting ballots … in which case, please go do that.)

We kicked off this week by visiting a divided Wisconsin in our final installment of The Field before the election. Then, Alex Burns became Bill Murray in “Groundhog Day” and appeared on our show four times (twice in our live broadcast, which you’ll hear more about below, and again to make sense of where the votes stood on Election Days 2.0 and 3.0). Finally, Maggie Haberman, another all-star from our live broadcast, joined us today to analyze President Trump’s lies about electoral legitimacy, as told from a White House lectern.

We hope everyone gets some rest this weekend (looking at you, Alex and Maggie).

Listen to the highlights of The Daily’s live Election Day broadcast.

On election night, as the world anticipated the end of a long presidential contest, The Daily team was preoccupied, for a moment, with another question.

We were eight minutes into our first-ever live broadcast, which was an “admittedly wild experiment,” as the editor Paige Cowett described it. And now it was being tested by our first guest.

“Alex, can you hear me?” Michael Barbaro asked into the literal radio silence, searching for the national political correspondent Alex Burns. We held our breath.

“I can hear you. Can you hear me?” Alex Burns emerged, reliable as ever.

“Thank God” Slack messages flooded our team channel. And with every passing minute, our team became assured that our live experiment would work.

It all started a little over a week ago, when The Daily team was in an election coverage brainstorm. Our objectives for Election Day were clear: We wanted to deliver lucid news analysis, “showcase the deep bench of Times reporters scattered across the country” and “document the day in a sound rich way,” Paige said. But we also needed to do this for an event with no clear end date.

Multiple shows per day seemed to be the only way to “cover an Election Day that might bleed into an Election Week or Month,” Paige said. But when she took the idea to the executive producer Lisa Tobin, it evolved: “Could we create a live show,” they wondered, “capturing all the nuance as it changed in real time?”

Doing so would require transforming The Times into a Covid-safe digital radio station. “When we designed the audio studios three years ago, we never thought we would try to stream live content for four hours. We also never imagined having to do so from separate rooms due to occupational health requirements,” the audio engineer Brad Fisher said.

Soon, teams across The Times were pulled in to figure out how to make this happen, jury-rigging the technical setup needed (and organizing many, many backup plans and dry runs). Our production configuration required two phone lines, three Google Meet connections, four audio consoles and “just the right number of adjoining studios to pull it off,” Brad said.

Meanwhile, The Daily team figured out the lineup — dozens of reporters who would be in conversation with two hosts, Michael and Carolyn Ryan, a deputy managing editor at The Times. But the schedule took a lot of arranging — and rearranging.

“I cannot begin to fathom the number of emails the reporters got from me with updated calendar invite times or how many Slack messages I sent,” the producer Rachel Quester said. “To those reporters who see this, I’m sorry!”

Ultimately, it all happened. Alex finally answered. Live jokes were told. And amid the “rush and roar of producing live programming,” as the producer Jessica Cheung described it, vivid dispatches from reporters and voters emerged, helping us contextualize what was happening across the country on Election Day 2020.

“It felt like putting on a high school musical,” the producer Sydney Harper said, filled with rehearsals, tricky choreography and “an ensemble cast bringing out each other’s best talents and bringing the production to life.” We’re grateful to you for joining us on our opening night.

In January, just before the kickoff of this election cycle, The Daily sat down with Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor. He spoke openly about the lessons The Times had learned from its coverage of the 2016 presidential election.

During Tuesday’s live show, Michael interviewed Dean once again, this time to discuss how these hard-won lessons from four years ago were informing our “extraordinarily cautious” approach on Election Day, and in any calls that would be made in the days thereafter.

Listen to Dean’s full interview from the live broadcast, and read excerpts from his interview below:

Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.

Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.

Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.





No.23 article:
How One Firm Drove Influence Campaigns Nationwide for Big Oil

FTI, a global consulting firm, helped design, staff and run organizations and websites funded by energy companies that can appear to represent grass-roots support for fossil-fuel initiatives.

In early 2017, the Texans for Natural Gas website went live to urge voters to “thank a roughneck” and support fracking. Around the same time, the Arctic Energy Center ramped up its advocacy for drilling in Alaskan waters and in a vast Arctic wildlife refuge. The next year, the Main Street Investors Coalition warned that climate activism doesn’t help mom-and-pop investors in the stock market.

All three appeared to be separate efforts to amplify local voices or speak up for regular people. 

On closer look, however, the groups had something in common: They were part of a network of corporate influence campaigns designed, staffed and at times run by FTI Consulting, which had been hired by some of the largest oil and gas companies in the world to help them promote fossil fuels.

An examination of FTI’s work provides an anatomy of the oil industry’s efforts to influence public opinion in the face of increasing political pressure over climate change, an issue likely to grow in prominence, given President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s pledge to pursue bolder climate regulations. The campaigns often obscure the industry’s role, portraying pro-petroleum groups as grass-roots movements.

As part of its services to the industry, FTI monitored environmental activists online, and in one instance an employee created a fake Facebook persona — an imaginary, middle-aged Texas woman with a dog — to help keep tabs on protesters. Former FTI employees say they studied other online influence campaigns and compiled strategies for affecting public discourse. They helped run a campaign that sought a securities rule change, described as protecting the interests of mom-and-pop investors, that aimed to protect oil and gas companies from shareholder pressure to address climate and other concerns.

FTI employees also staffed two news and information sites, Energy In Depth and Western Wire, writing pro-industry articles on fracking, climate lawsuits and other hot-button issues. Former employees familiar with Energy In Depth said the site’s content had direction from Exxon Mobil, one of the major clients of the FTI division that worked on these oil and gas campaigns.

The Energy In Depth website notes its affiliation with an energy trade group that Exxon is a member of, though not Exxon’s role in directing content that the site published.

This article is based on interviews with a dozen former FTI employees, including former managing directors, a review of hundreds of internal FTI documents and an examination of the digital trail of domain-name registrations and other details left by the creation of the websites. In all, FTI has been involved in the operations of at least 15 current and past influence campaigns promoting fossil-fuel interests in addition to its direct work for oil and gas clients.

Matthew Bashalany, an FTI spokesman, disputed the idea that FTI worked behind the scenes for these groups. “We hide behind no one,” he said.

“We summarily reject as false, misleading and defamatory the general narrative and specific claims,” he said. “We hold ourselves to the highest professional and ethical standards of conduct; when and where shortfalls are identified in this regard, they are addressed appropriately.”

An Exxon spokesman, Casey Norton, said he would not comment on the findings because he considered the reporter to be biased against the fossil fuel industry. Kathleen Sgamma, a spokeswoman for the Western Energy Alliance, which funds Western Wire, said her group had been open about its partnership with FTI and about its approach to fracking.

The business of corporate consulting and public relations is vast, and countless companies routinely provide media outreach, public messaging, crisis management and other services. FTI is among them, and it has taken up an important role in helping promote the messages of the fossil fuel industry.

Those messages have sometimes run counter to the scientific consensus that the world must burn less oil and gas to avoid the worst effects of global warming. Texans for Natural Gas, for example, has downplayed the magnitude of emissions of methane, the prime component of natural gas and a potent greenhouse gas, from oil and gas production.

FTI’s work is the latest chapter in a long history of campaigns by the fossil fuel industry, political strategists and public relations professionals to influence climate policy. The industry has faced tough headwinds this year, in particular, as demand for oil and gas has tumbled amid the pandemic.

Founded in 1982 in Annapolis, Md., as a firm that provided expert witnesses and presentations for litigation, FTI has grown into a multinational firm that employs almost 5,000 people in 28 countries. Its business spans a wide range of services, from business consulting to crisis communications.

One of FTI’s largest shareholders, the investment firm BlackRock, won kudos this year for saying it would put environmental sustainability at the center of its investment approach. Main Street Investors, one of FTI’s projects, has spoken out against shareholders who press corporations on climate and other issues — an effort that would seem to be in conflict with BlackRock’s stance.

Mr. Bashalany, the FTI spokesman, said the firm’s work “in no way contravenes — nor is it misaligned with” BlackRock’s statement. BlackRock declined to comment.

On a clear day in July, a plane soared over America’s biggest oil and gas field with a banner trailing behind it that read: “Thank you essential oil and gas workers.”

“We wanted to do something big, and what’s bigger than an airplane with a banner?” Elizabeth Caldwell of Texans for Natural Gas said in a statement. The group, which describes itself as a local organization representing “citizens and officeholders, business owners and students” with more than 400,000 supporters, is funded by oil and gas companies including XTO Energy, an Exxon subsidiary, according to its website.

The statement identifies Ms. Caldwell as “a spokeswoman for the grass-roots organization.” She is also a director at FTI, according to her LinkedIn page. (There was nothing unusual about an organization receiving corporate support and public relations help, FTI’s spokesman said.)

Acting as Texans for Natural Gas representatives, FTI employees have launched pro-industry petitions, produced videos and reports on the importance of the Permian Basin oil field, and written opinion pieces for local newspapers supporting fossil fuels. The site features testimonials from three women, two of whom are represented with stock photos and one with a photo used without permission from the Flickr page of a photographer in the Philippines.

FTI’s Mr. Bashalany acknowledged the use of the stock photos and said adjustments would be made to avoid confusion. He said the supporters and testimonials were real.

Texans for Natural Gas has also shared misleading information about greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, it issued a study inaccurately claiming that emissions of methane had decreased significantly in the heart of Texas oil country at the height of the fracking boom.

To arrive at that conclusion, scientists say, the report tallied data from the Environmental Protection Agency that the agency itself states does not represent overall emissions: The numbers, which are reported by the energy industry about a limited number of compressor stations and other facilities, do not include emissions from the area’s thousands of wells. The data are “too low by at least a factor of two, and quite likely more,” said Robert W. Howarth, a professor at Cornell University who has researched methane emissions.

FTI stood by the report, calling its findings “on track with broader trends in Texas’ oil fields.”

Texans for Natural Gas is just one campaign run with the help of FTI employees. Others include: Citizens to Protect PA Jobs, New Mexicans for Economic Prosperity, the Liberty Energy Project and the Arctic Energy Center, according to interviews, internal documents and an examination of the digital trail of domain-name registrations and other details left by the creation of the websites.

Another such organization, the Marcellus Shale Coalition, said of FTI in a statement: “We are proud to have them as a contract partner, especially when it comes to direct and transparent media support.”

Within FTI, a group called StratCom, short for Strategic Communications, focuses on industry messaging campaigns. In the United States, the group is led by Brian Kennedy, former press secretary for the office of the House minority leader and a former spokesman for Transocean, the drilling contractor involved in the 2010 BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

The StratCom group studied environmental protesters on behalf of the driller Apache Energy. Apache was seeking to drill near Balmorhea State Park in Texas and was concerned that protesters were planning camps similar to those set up to oppose the Dakota Access Pipeline, according to two people with direct knowledge of the work.

One FTI document prepared for Apache, dated Jan. 25, 2017, included a link to a list of groceries and camp supplies compiled by organizers, which the document said provided a hint of the proposed camp’s size.

The fictitious Facebook profile — of a Texas woman named Susan McDonald who likes ice cream, the movie “Annie” and her local farmers’ market — was also intended to help FTI keep tabs on activists, former FTI employees said. The “friends” list on the fake profile, which remained present on Facebook as of Wednesday, includes one current and one former FTI employee.

Mr. Bashalany of FTI said, “A Facebook profile was created by a former employee to monitor social media anonymously. This was wrong, and it is against our policy.”

Apache declined to comment on the substance of the reporting.

StratCom employees also studied and developed strategies designed to influence public discourse, according to five former employees. An internal document dated Nov. 20, 2015, laid out various techniques. The “Semantic Nitpicker,” the document explained, “asks an endless series of questions.” The “Dog Typing on a Keyboard” uses “very poor grammar, spelling and punctuation and posts frequently to clutter up the thread and make it hard to read.”

A successful effort, the document advised, might use several commenters, “each with an assigned role.”

Mr. Bashalany said senior managers were never aware of the document and it “never informed any activities or approaches to social or digital media engagement of any kind.”

Other campaigns used common techniques, buying social media ads to target people with interests in Alaska and energy and steer them toward the Arctic Energy Center, an industry-funded site that promoted drilling in the waters off Alaska and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

Exxon was a backer of the Arctic Energy Center, according to documents and people who worked on the project. An FTI presentation prepared for Exxon, dated July 13, 2016, showed Exxon was scheduled to spend $120,000 over six months across social-media platforms, a draft budget dated the previous month shows.

The Arctic Energy Center’s website has since been taken down.

In 2018, as New York City moved to sue Exxon Mobil and other fossil fuel companies, claiming that the companies had defrauded shareholders by downplaying climate change, a team within FTI’s StratCom group prepared a pushback.

The task at hand was to produce an article and tweets for Energy In Depth, the pro-industry site. The target: Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, who was under fire at the time for his SUV use.

According to an internal planning calendar, one tweet should show “Bill de Blasio in a giant SUV, wearing shirt that says WAR ON FOSSIL FUELS, or maybe a speech bubble with WAR ON FOSSIL FUELS!”

New York lost that court battle.

According to its website, Energy In Depth is a project of the Independent Petroleum Association of America, a trade organization representing hundreds of mostly smaller oil and gas producers. FTI employees familiar with the project said the site’s content had direction from Exxon. FTI employees also wrote much of the content published on Energy In Depth.

In a statement, an Independent Petroleum Association of America senior vice president, Jeff Eshelman, said “support for Energy In Depth comes from a wide segment of industry.” 

Mr. Bashalany, the FTI spokesman, said, “Any contention that it is supported in whole or even substantially in part by one company is categorically false.” He said FTI staff members reach out to companies, academics and others for input, “not the other way around.”

Energy In Depth, along with the other industry-funded site that FTI helps run, Western Wire, has been central to the fossil fuel industry’s championing of fracking. Both sites, staffed by FTI writers, have pushed back against the #ExxonKnew campaign waged by environmental activists, which claims that the company knew about climate change for decades yet blocked action to confront it.

In spring 2018, Nell Minow noticed a tweet from a new group, one she had never heard of, seeming to support small investors. Ms. Minow, vice chair of ValueEdge, a firm that advises investors, and a longtime advocate for mom-and-pop investors, was excited.

“I thought, ‘Great, a shareholder group! I need to know about them,’” she said. “Then I started looking into them and thought, this is really fishy.”

Though the group, Main Street Investors, described itself as representing small investors, it was started by a number of industry organizations, including the National Association of Manufacturers. Main Street has criticized the ability of pension funds and other powerful investors to influence companies’ policies on matters like climate and the environment.

Working for the National Association of Manufacturers, FTI produced a study arguing that activist shareholders tend not to help shareholder value. The report’s five authors were employees of the consulting firm Compass Lexecon, a wholly owned FTI subsidiary. The Main Street Investors website is now offline.

FTI also worked with the Independent Petroleum Association of America, the industry group associated with Energy In Depth, to start DivestmentFacts.com, which warns that divesting from fossil fuels — a growing trend among university endowments and pension funds — could cost those institutions millions of dollars. At least six academic papers published on Divestmentfacts.com were by professors who, in addition to their university jobs, were also working for Compass Lexecon, the FTI subsidiary.

FTI monitored Ms. Minow after she publicly said Main Street Investors was using “inflammatory language, unsupported assertions, and out-and-out falsehoods” to spread its message. Internal memos show FTI employees compiled reports on her background, noting, among other things, that she was once dubbed “the C.E.O. killer” by Fortune magazine for her record of ousting underperforming executives. FTI also tracked her tweets in a spreadsheet.

FTI’s Mr. Bashalany said that no attempt had been made to hide any of the report authors’ affiliation. He said neither FTI through its Compass Lexecon subsidiary nor its clients “had any influence whatsoever over the form or direction” of the reports. FTI staff conducted “some basic biographic research” of Ms. Minow, he said, “but that’s it — we did nothing else.”

This month, the Independent Petroleum Association of America, the oil and gas lobby group, announced it had launched a major initiative to support oil and gas companies looking into adopting environmental, social and governance strategies. In its announcement, the group stressed the importance of efforts that were “authentic and effective.”

Its partner in the endeavor is FTI.





No.24 article:
How Trump Lost Sports as a Political Strategy

After George Floyd’s death, many athletes and sports leagues pushed back more forcefully against the president’s demand for standing during the national anthem, and he shifted away from the issue.

For most of his presidency, Donald J. Trump reliably called out athletes who he felt were disrespecting the national anthem, the flag and him.

But the killing of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis on May 25 set off waves of protest and galvanized athletes in an election year to more forcefully repudiate Trump’s demand that players stand during “The Star-Spangled Banner” before games. Athletes were also inspired to spur voter registration and turnout as stadiums and arenas became polling places.

As the election neared, Trump, perhaps unexpectedly, receded from the anthem, his most contentious sports wedge issue. He attempted another sports-related strategy: pressuring the Big Ten Conference to start its college football season immediately and then trying to take undeserved credit for the reversal of the league’s initial decision to try to have a season in the spring.

But the play to shore up his support in the Midwest did not pan out: He lost the Big Ten blue wall states of Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

“Football was the ultimate purple sport,” said Joe Lockhart, a former N.F.L. executive who was the White House press secretary for former President Bill Clinton. “Republicans and Democrats weren’t Republicans and Democrats; they were Patriots fans or Jets fans. It brought the country together.

“Trump sought to divide that. He wins by subtracting. To a certain extent, he succeeded for a little bit. But by the end of June this year, it was a complete failure for him.”

Upon seeing disturbing video of Floyd being fatally pinned beneath the knee of a police officer — four years after the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt to protest racial injustice and police violence — people “understood the outrage in a new way and why a Black player would want to exercise his or her right to protest,” said Kevin Sullivan, the communications director for former President George W. Bush.

Floyd’s death set off a cascading series of actions by athletes, sports officials and leagues that more uniformly disavowed Trump’s stance on the anthem, even if the pushback appeared to have little impact on the election in a divided country, political experts said. Trump, who used the anthem issue to fire up his base, still received more than 72 million votes — significantly more raw votes than in 2016 — while losing re-election to Joseph R. Biden Jr., who earned more than 77 million votes.

In the late stages of the campaign, Trump seemed to largely abandon the anthem as a political cudgel, while also playing down issues like the coronavirus pandemic, even as he became infected. Instead, he focused his attention on his political opponent and baseless predictions of a rigged election if he lost.

“He had bigger fish to fry in an election year,” said Ari Fleischer, Bush’s White House press secretary. “His opponent wasn’t the N.F.L. It wasn’t Colin Kaepernick. It was Joe Biden.”

Still, as spring became summer after Floyd’s death, sports leagues and athletes increasingly disregarded Trump. In early August, LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers laughed and said Trump wouldn’t be missed after the president said he had stopped watching the resumption of the virus-disrupted N.B.A. season, calling kneeling for the anthem “disgraceful.”

By the fall, even youth football teams were taking a knee. And Trump’s response via Twitter and public rallies seemed at times to deflate from raging defiance to aggrieved resignation.

“One day it was a huge issue,” the Democratic strategist James Carville said of the anthem. “The next day it was no issue.”

Doug Sosnik, the political director for Clinton, described Trump in an email as a verbal “day trader” who, once his lines begin to fall flat, “moves on to the next shiny object that will arouse his supporters.”

What Trump misunderstood about players kneeling for the anthem, Sosnik said, is that most Americans believe strongly in the First Amendment, and Floyd’s death made it “hard for anyone not to view the protests as anything but an appropriate reaction to such outrageous behavior.”

Trump had sparred with the N.F.L. for decades. In the 1980s, as a franchise owner in the upstart United States Football League, he led a movement to file an antitrust suit against the N.F.L., only to be left embarrassed by a reward of $3 in damages.

At a political rally in September 2017, Trump denounced any player who would kneel for the anthem, imploring N.F.L. team owners to “get that son of a bitch off the field right now.” But by June 2020, he reacted to a turbulent 48-hour period in the N.F.L. with the social media equivalent of taking his ball and going home, having lost his ability to bully the country’s most popular sports league.

On June 3, in an interview with Yahoo Finance, at a time when many Black athletes were demanding racial justice in the wake of Floyd’s death, New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees essentially sided with Trump by saying, “I will never agree with anybody disrespecting the flag of the United States of America or our country.”

His remarks seemed tone deaf to many and drew lacerating responses from Black teammates and others around the N.F.L., a league where three-quarters of the players are African-American. A day later, Brees apologized in an Instagram post, saying his comments were “insensitive and completely missed the mark.” He asked for forgiveness in what seemed to be a mix of self-preservation and reflection.

On June 5, Trump posted on Twitter that he was a “big fan” of Brees, but that the quarterback should not have rescinded his original stance. “NO KNEELING!” Trump tweeted.

But Brees forcefully rejected the president’s position that same day. He wrote on social media: “This is not an issue about the American flag. It never has been. We can no longer use the flag to turn people away or distract them from the real issues that face our black communities.”

At the time, Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, also faced intense pressure from Black players demanding that he condemn racism. In a video, he encouraged peaceful protests and issued a mea culpa for not listening earlier to concerns about social justice.

Goodell was widely criticized for not mentioning Kaepernick’s name. And Brees did not risk his career, as did Kaepernick, who has been out of the N.F.L. for four seasons. But Harry Edwards, the sports sociologist, said it was important for Black players to gain acknowledgments of regret and support from a white star like Brees and from Goodell, the commissioner of a league where some prominent team owners had given millions to Trump’s political coffers.

“It takes courage and character to say, ‘You know what, I’m wrong,’” said Edwards, a consultant for the 49ers who has been involved in social justice movements for more than a half-century. “It left Trump turning in the wind.”

On June 9, the United States Soccer Federation rescinded its ban on players kneeling for the anthem.

“I won’t be watching much anymore!” Trump tweeted on June 13. He also connected the move by U.S. Soccer to pro football: “And it looks like the NFL is heading in that direction also, but not with me watching!”

A week later, at a rally in Tulsa, Okla., Trump seemed puzzled by pushback from Goodell, Brees and other N.F.L. stars, wondering, “Where did that come from in the middle of the summer?”

“I thought we won that battle with the N.F.L.,” Trump said.





No.25 article:
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade Revives Broadway for a Day

Among the things to be thankful for: Turkey is on the menu, your Uncle Charlie is not coming and, after a long absence, Broadway casts will be back onstage.

Broadway may be dark for several months to come, but actors from four shuttered shows have been given the opportunity — a rare one during the coronavirus pandemic — to put on their costumes and perform. The venue: Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade.

The term parade is being used loosely this year. The helium-filled balloons and star-studded floats will not be traveling their typical jam-packed, two-and-a-half-mile route starting at West 77th Street. They will be gliding just one city block down 34th Street, near the flagship department store, and without an audience.

But even if it’s more television show than crowd fest this year, the parade will provide a brief respite from the doldrums of a darkened Broadway with performances by the casts of “Hamilton,” “Mean Girls,” “Jagged Little Pill,” and “Ain’t Too Proud: The Life and Times of the Temptations,” all shows that have not taken the stage since March.

Parade organizers said the Broadway performances will be filmed sometime in the next few weeks but aired with the rest of the parade on the morning of Nov. 26. Given the virus, and the long layoff since March, the appearances are requiring rigorous rehearsals and meticulous planning to make sure that the entertainers are back on game and the performers and production team do not pose a health risk to one another.

Sergio Trujillo, the Tony Award-winning choreographer of “Ain’t Too Proud,” said that he choreographed a new number to a medley of two iconic Temptations songs, “My Girl” and “Get Ready.” Last year, the entire cast of the show performed at the outset of the parade broadcast, but this time, Mr. Trujillo kept the number to the five stars. He said he choreographed with social distancing in mind, making sure that the formations were staggered and the performers could keep separated while dancing.

“Anything we can do to make sure our Broadway lovers stay engaged and invested,” Mr. Trujillo said.

Anyone involved in the performance receives coronavirus tests and temperature checks before convening, and everyone will wear masks on the set, though the performers will be able to remove them to sing, he said.

In a typical year, Macy’s and NBC work together to select the Broadway shows that will perform live on Thanksgiving Day, usually emphasizing productions with flashy, dance-heavy numbers. This year, some producers said that they would not be able to make the performance work because their cast members were spending the pandemic shutdown period outside the state or country, said Wesley Whatley, the parade’s creative producer. The four performances that ultimately came together are being paid for by NBC, giving the performers a welcome paycheck after months of no work.

This is the 94th Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and it has been reimagined in almost every way. In a typical year, it has between 8,000 and 10,000 people working the route, said Susan Tercero, the event’s executive producer. This year, there will be about 1,500. And there will be an in-person audience of zero. (The area surrounding the parade route will be shut down, even during planning, so there will be no opportunity for street viewing).

Participants must be at least 18 years old and cannot come from outside the tristate area. And the massive balloons will no longer be flown by smiling, uniformed handlers, but instead, driven by utility vehicles to limit the number of people involved.

“We still wanted to deliver what people expect on a Thanksgiving morning,” Ms. Tercero said. “But it’s going to look like a parade during Covid times: We’re going to have people in masks and we’re going to be socially distanced.”

The show, to air on NBC, will be hosted by Savannah Guthrie, Hoda Kotb and Al Roker and will feature a typical roster of celebrities from the worlds of music and television. The lineup includes Lauren Alaina, Jimmie Allen and Noah Cyrus, Ally Brooke, Sofia Carson, CNCO, Jimmy Fallon and The Roots, Karol G, Tori Kelly, Patti LaBelle, Ella Mai, Miss America 2020 Camille Schrier, the cast and Muppets of Sesame Street, Leslie Odom Jr., Keke Palmer, Dolly Parton, Pentatonix, Bebe Rexha, Jordin Sparks, Sebastián Yatra, and Brett Young.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

They will be followed, as usual, by Santa Claus, who is in good health despite the fact that the coronavirus has even made it to the Arctic.

In New York, where the worst impact of the virus has waned but cases are climbing again, the parade planning team at Macy’s aimed to feature artists who have been deprived of the opportunity to perform over the past several months. So one appearance will be by a ballerina with New York City Ballet who will dance as the Sugar Plum Fairy from George Balanchine’s “The Nutcracker,” which has been canceled entirely this season.

And in a display of empathy for their fellow parades of New York City, the event is integrating performers whose appearances at various events in recent months were canceled because of Covid-19. The pretaped entertainment will include those who were scheduled to participate in St. Patrick’s Day Parade, the Pride March, the National Puerto Rican Day Parade and the West Indian American Day Carnival Association, which were all canceled this year.

“Why not showcase New York at a time when a lot of people have missed being able to participate and watch these types of performances and cultural displays?” Ms. Tercero said.





No.26 article:
Marylin Bender Dies at 95; Journalist in a Male-Dominated Era

One of the few women with any editing authority at The Times, she felt resentment and, when asking for a raise, was told: “You’re married. You don’t need it.”

When Marylin Bender was the Sunday business editor of The New York Times in the 1970s, she was one of only a handful of women with any editing clout in the newsroom. Hers was “hardly an elevated post,” she said later in an oral history, but as the boss of her section, she was outraged to learn that her male deputy was making more money than she was.

Outraged, but not surprised. This was still an era when few women could be found in the Times’s cigar-smoke-laden newsroom, when there were no female photographers or national correspondents, and when, in asking for a raise, Ms. Bender was told: “You’re married. You don’t need it.”

The atmosphere prompted some women at the Times to bring a sex discrimination suit against the paper in 1974. Though Ms. Bender was not part of the suit, she was deposed for it.

“I was the one example they had of someone in a slightly elevated, managerial capacity who was proportionately being dealt as much of a shiv as the women plaintiffs,” she said.

Still, Ms. Bender enjoyed a long career as a reporter and editor, most of it at The Times, and as the author of four books.

She died at 95 on Oct. 19 at her home in Manhattan. Her son, James Altschul, said the cause was complications of dementia.

Like many women of that era in newspaper journalism, Ms. Bender started at The Times on the fashion pages, covering the fashion industry for 11 years by looking at it through a sociological lens. As an extension of her reporting, she wrote the 1967 book “The Beautiful People,” which critiqued a growing celebrity culture and examined the symbiotic relationship between fashion and society at a time when people were becoming famous for being famous.

“Miss Bender knows the scene and writes with caustic good humor,” Eliot Fremont-Smith wrote in reviewing her book for The Times.

She was then recruited by The Times’s business news section, where the editors thought her ability to write about a subject through the personalities involved would enliven their otherwise dry pages.

Having earned a law degree and married a financial consultant to the aviation industry, Ms. Bender said, she felt confident in writing about businesspeople. During the oral history interview, conducted in 2000 and 2001 for Columbia Law School, she was asked about her approach to someone like Jack Welch, the heralded chief executive of General Electric who died in March.

“From a business standpoint, of course you’d want to know how he runs his business,” she said. “But the rest of him? It’s hysterical, because he otherwise is not fascinating — unless you dig deeply into his ordinariness.”

Among her subjects was a 37-year-old Donald J. Trump. In a Sunday business section cover story in 1983 under the headline “The Empire and Ego of Donald Trump,” she examined his wheeling and dealing as he expanded his real estate empire across Manhattan.

This “brash Adonis from the outer boroughs,” Ms. Bender wrote, “exhibited a flair for self-promotion, grandiose schemes and, perhaps not surprisingly, for provoking fury along the way.”

He wore “maroon suits and matching loafers,” she added, and won tax abatements and other concessions that critics called “outrageous.”

The article infuriated Mr. Trump, who called Ms. Bender to complain.

“You put me down because I’m from Queens,” he told her, according to Soma Golden Behr, who edited the story on the Times’s business desk and went on to become the paper’s first female national editor.

“Marylin had deep knowledge of business and a sharp eye for detail, and she was comfortable writing about the city’s financial class,” Ms. Behr said in a phone interview. “She had insight, and she had chutzpah.”

Marylin Sloan Bender was born in Brooklyn on April 25, 1925. Her parents, Michael and Janet (Sloan) Bender, owned and ran a clothing manufacturing business in Manhattan. They later owned a clothing store, with a branch in Greenwich, Conn. — work that exposed their daughter to the fashion business.

She grew up in Brooklyn and Manhattan and went to Smith College at 15, having skipped a few grades. She graduated in 1944 with a major in history. At Columbia Law School, she said, her classes in evidence gave her good training to be a reporter and steered her to rely on documents. She graduated in 1947.

She married Selig Altschul, a financial expert and counselor to the aviation industry, in 1959. He and Ms. Bender co-wrote “The Chosen Instrument,” a 1982 biography of Juan Trippe, the founder of Pan American World Airways.

Mr. Altschul died in 1992. In addition to her son, Ms. Bender is survived by two granddaughters.

Her first newspaper job was as an editorial assistant at the Hearst-owned New York Journal-American, “a paper for which I had the greatest contempt,” she said in the oral history, “but a job is a job.”

There, she learned how to be a cunning and creative reporter. One of her first assignments, she said, involved going to Queens to ask a woman “how she felt about her daughter having been chopped up and dumped, her body found in pieces, in a garbage pail.”

In time, she helped break open a Salk vaccine smuggling ring. Using a ruse to get a visa, she visited Russia at the height of the Cold War and wrote a series about women’s lives there. She also wrote about alcoholism and aging.

But for the most part she called in her stories from a phone booth to a rewrite desk in the finest “His Girl Friday” tradition. It taught her to think quickly on her feet but had little to do with writing.

“It was the ability to get people to talk that was important, to get information,” she said. “Get the story.”

She landed a job at The Times in 1959. On the fashion page, she worked mostly with women, but once she moved to business news in 1970 and became the first woman to head the Sunday section a few years later, friction with the men there became apparent.

“As Sunday business editor, I believe I did exercise control over the editorial matter, but on the personal level it was a struggle,” she said. “The deputies wanted my job. They weren’t used to taking direction from women, and they were deeply resentful.”

When she left to write a book, her job was given to a man who, she said, “knew nothing about business.” Three months later she was asked to come back and help him. He was making more money than she had. She declined the offer.

But she did support the seven women plaintiffs, led by Betsy Wade Boylan, chief of the foreign copy desk, in their sex-discrimination suit against The Times. Eventually the case evolved into a class-action suit on behalf of almost 600 women. “My deposition was useful,” Ms. Bender said.

Just as a trial was set to start in 1978, The New York Times Company settled out of court, announcing a cash settlement and an affirmative action program under court decree for four years.

Today, women make up 49 percent of the newsroom staff and 46 percent of its leadership. Companywide, they make up 51 percent of leadership positions.





No.27 article:
Fact-Checked on Facebook and Twitter, Conservatives Switch Their Apps

Since the election, millions have migrated to alternative social media and media sites like Parler, Rumble and Newsmax.

Corey Adam, a political comedian from Minneapolis, joined a mass social media switcheroo last week.

That was when Mr. Adam, 39, a conservative and libertarian, watched Twitter and Facebook add labels to social media posts from President Trump and other Republicans who falsely claimed he had won the election. Many of the labels said the assertions were disputed. And on Twitter, some of Mr. Trump’s tweets were hidden completely.

To Mr. Adam, the social media companies appeared to be singling out conservative voices. So he decided to shift to Parler, a social networking app that he has used on and off for a year, and to largely ignore those two big platforms, he said.

“Facebook started muting, deleting and labeling every conservative political post in my feed,” Mr. Adam said. “If you’re going to do something, you have to be fair to both sides. You don’t just get to pick one side to promote.”

Mr. Adam was one of millions of people who have migrated away from Facebook and Twitter since the election. As the companies have clamped down on misinformation, they have clashed with Republicans and conservatives who have spread lies about the election’s outcome, leading to claims that the tech platforms are censoring them.

Among those who have spoken out are Mark Levin, a far-right radio host with millions of listeners, who vented on his show last week that the tech and media companies were not representing the conservative point of view. Maria Bartiromo, a Fox Business anchor, also expressed frustration with Twitter and said it was blocking conservatives’ statements.

But Mr. Levin, Ms. Bartiromo and others did not stop there. They directed their followers to other social media apps and news sites that have positioned themselves as alternatives to Facebook and Twitter. The beneficiaries are Parler, a Twitter-like app that describes itself as the world’s “premier free speech social network,” the right-wing media app Newsmax, and other social sites like MeWe and Rumble, which have purposely welcomed conservatives.

Over the weekend, Parler shot to the top of Apple’s App Store in downloads. As of Monday, it had eight million members, nearly double the 4.5 million it had last week. Rumble said it projected 75 million to 90 million people will watch a video on its site this month, up from 60.5 million last month. And Newsmax said more than 3 million people watched its election night coverage and that its app has recently been in the top-10 daily apps downloaded from Apple’s App Store.

While social media sites marketed at conservatives have existed for years, they have often struggled to catch on more widely. Their invigoration now may add to a fracturing of the information ecosystem.

“There are real dangers around a fractured misinformation system, especially as it relates to organizing against our electoral integrity,” said Shannon McGregor, a professor at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and senior researcher at the Center for Information, Technology, and Public Life.

But Ms. McGregor said she was skeptical that any migration would lead to permanent departures from Facebook and Twitter. “If there is no one to argue with, no omnipresent journalists or media entities to react to, how long will it last?” she said.

Facebook and Twitter declined to comment. The companies have denied censoring conservatives and typically point to their terms of service when an account breaks the rules. And while many conservatives are upset about their content being labeled or hidden, they are less willing to acknowledge that their posts can often clash with Facebook’s guidelines around disinformation and harmful content.

Next week, Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey, and Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, are scheduled to testify at a congressional hearing over their sites’ treatment of an unsubstantiated New York Post article that was critical of Hunter Biden, the son of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. The hearing was called by Republicans who were incensed that the sites initially limited the distribution of the article.

Despite the conservative ire, Facebook and Twitter have long taken a mostly hands-off approach to digital speech. In recent months, however, the companies ramped up their efforts to prevent election misinformation. Facebook and Twitter said they would label false posts and slow down how quickly they could be shared, among other moves. They said many of the changes would be temporary.

Last week after the polls closed, Facebook and Twitter began using many of those measures. When Mr. Trump posted that the election was being stolen from him, the companies labeled his messages. Facebook on Thursday also took down a rapidly growing Facebook group, Stop the Steal, which promoted the idea of a stolen election.

That moved people like Mr. Adam to switch to alternative apps like Parler, which is owned in part by the conservative media personality Dan Bongino. Founded in 2018 by two Nevada-based software engineers, John Matze and Jared Thomson, Parler — which is named after the French word meaning “to speak” — has said it is a free speech platform, with much looser guidelines around what people can post to the site.

On Parler, users can see posts about MAGA fodder and QAnon, the pro-Trump conspiracy theory that asserts that some top Democrats are satanic pedophiles. Anti-Semitic theories abound. Donald Trump Jr., Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, all have Parler accounts.

“Parler is a breath of fresh air for those weary and wary of the way they’ve been treated by our competitors,” Jeffrey Wernick, Parler’s chief operating officer, said in a statement. “Our growth is not attributable to any one person or group, but rather to Parler’s efforts to earn our community’s trust.”

Parler’s recent growth has been so staggering that thousands of users have complained about how difficult it was to sign up because of the logjam of people creating new accounts. Mr. Matze said in a letter to Parler’s community on Tuesday that the influx “strained our networks’ capacity and caused some glitches and delays,” but the site was fixing the problems.

Some new Parler users said the site was an alternative to extreme platforms like Gab, another social media site that has been a haven for racist memes and content. Andrew Torba, founder and chief executive of Gab, said in an email, “Jesus is King, speak freely on Gab.com.” He also sent a link noting that Gab had seen record user growth over the last week.

Others have gravitated to Rumble, a video site founded in 2013 that has emerged as a conservative YouTube. Rumble makes money in a variety of ways, including by running ads and selling its technology.

Chris Pavlovski, Rumble’s founder and chief executive, said the site had been on a “rocket ship” of growth since the summer — and even more so since the election. Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, and Mr. Bongino are on Rumble and have seen their audiences expand rapidly on the site, he said.

Mr. Pavlovski added that Rumble prohibits explicit content, terrorist propaganda and harassment. But he said it was largely not in the business of sorting out misinformation or curbing speech.

“I don’t want to pretend to sit here and know what the truth is or have the capabilities to know how to do that,” he said. On other platforms, he added, “people are not allowed to have debate anymore.”

Many people have also sought out further-right news publications. That has been a boon for Newsmax, a right-wing news website and television channel founded in 1998 by the conservative journalist Christopher Ruddy. Last week, Newsmax gained steam after Fox News called the swing state of Arizona in favor of Mr. Biden, incensing Mr. Trump’s base. (The New York Times has not called Arizona in favor of either candidate.)

Melissa Zepeda, 32, a Republican and a registered nurse in northern Mississippi, said she and several of her co-workers recently switched to Newsmax from Fox News after it showed “favoritism to Biden.” Newsmax has not called the election in favor of Mr. Biden, one of the few news outlets not to do so.

“So far, I like that they are non-biased, and cover a variety of information, not just the election,” Ms. Zepeda said.

Mr. Ruddy, Newsmax’s chief executive and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s, said viewership and social media interactions with his site have soared. The surge came partly from conservatives who were searching for a place where their opinions are represented, he said. He added that it was important for publishers to have ideological diversity.

“There’s a liberal echo chamber that’s pretty damn big,” he said. “Conservatives just have less options, but if they seek them out, they’re there.”

It might be too early to know whether a widespread, permanent shift away from major outlets will last, especially given the reach of Facebook, Twitter and Fox News. While conservative threats of mass migration away from mainstream apps and news have occurred periodically, people still seem to return to the biggest platforms.

Ms. Zepeda, a longtime Facebook user, said she would keep her Facebook account to maintain access to the pictures she’s uploaded over the years. But she expects to drop the social network as a daily destination, joining one of the many Facebook groups that are planning a “Mass Exit off Facebook to Parler &amp; MeWe,” scheduled for Friday.

“I’m tired of the bias towards Democrats and liberals,” she said.





No.28 article:
The Nude Pictures That Won’t Go Away

Emily Ratajkowski accused the photographer Jonathan Leder of assault and using photos against her wishes. Other women say they have similar experiences.

In September, the model and actress Emily Ratajkowski published an essay describing, among other injurious experiences, being sexually assaulted by a photographer named Jonathan Leder when she was 20. 

For years afterward, Ms. Ratajkowski wrote on The Cut, nude and seminude Polaroids from that shoot have been shown in galleries and republished without her permission.

In response, Mr. Leder called Ms. Ratajkowski’s accusations “false and salacious,” and her essay “tawdry and baseless.” Years ago, when Ms. Ratajkowski first began publicly denouncing Mr. Leder for publishing books of her nude shots, the photographer provided The New York Times with a copy of her model release — a contract specifying or limiting the use of one’s image — signed by Ms. Ratajkowski’s agent. The agreement allowed the photos to be used in “a future book of Polaroids.”

But according to Ms. Ratajkowski, her agent denied signing anything; Ms. Ratajkowski also said her lawyer suggested the signature was forged.

At home in Brooklyn, Kathleen Sorbara read the essay with uneasy recognition. Mr. Leder had photographed her twice in 2013; he did not assault her, but he did continue releasing images of her, also against her wishes, she said.

Ms. Sorbara, now 25 and a vintage-clothing dealer, wondered if the seven-year-old images were still circulating. She searched Instagram with Mr. Leder’s name as a hashtag. She didn’t have to look long: in August, a Japanese company began selling T-shirts printed with his provocative photos, including Ms. Sorbara, at age 18, wearing lingerie. It felt like a violation, she said.

She had not signed a release, which isn’t standard for every type of shoot. Often agents handle the paperwork, meaning models aren’t always aware of the contracts. Even so, according to two industry colleagues of Mr. Leder’s, most photographers don’t typically disregard a model or her agency’s wishes in this context, either out of mutual respect or just a desire to maintain business relationships.

“It’s immoral,” Ms. Sorbara said. “There’s a certain level of trust when you’re collaborating with someone on an artistic project, especially when it involves your own naked body.”

Since the publication of Ms. Ratajkowski’s essay — in which she described Mr. Leder penetrating her with his fingers after the photo shoot, while she was drunk on wine he’d provided — more women have emerged with stories about Mr. Leder, ranging from discomfort with his continued use of certain images to allegations of abuse.

The Times tried to contact Mr. Leder, 47, for comment for this article, through phone calls, emails and text. He did not respond.

He is not the first photographer accused of exploiting young bodies while gatekeepers shrugged or turned the other way; Terry Richardson, Bruce Weber, Mario Testino and Patrick Demarchelier have also been accused of misconduct. (None of these men have been charged with a crime, and all have issued denials. Only one — Mr. Weber — faces lawsuits.) 

“These are the kinds of stories that we hear every day,” said Sara Ziff, founder of Model Alliance, a labor rights nonprofit that runs a support line and workshops. 

Mr. Leder made his name as a photographer with Jacques, a magazine he and Danielle F. O. Hettara, then his wife and a former model, began publishing in 2009. She was the editor in chief, and he was the creative director.

Their magazine, inspired by vintage issues of Playboy and featuring what Mr. Leder once described as “wholesome” nudity, was well received. He was soon asked to shoot videos for brands like Adidas and Louis Vuitton.

In October of 2011, after two years of marriage and two children together, Ms. Hettara said she confronted her husband about his involvement with Nola Palmer, the lead actress of a feature film he was directing.

During that argument, according to a police report Ms. Hettara filed in Woodstock, N.Y., Mr. Leder choked her while she held their infant daughter. At that moment, she said in an interview, “I was so shaken up that I couldn’t remember the number to call 911.” She went to the police five days later, after speaking to friends and family and intermittently trying to reconcile with Mr. Leder. She was granted an order of protection.

Mr. Leder was arrested and charged in January 2012 with criminal obstruction of breathing or blood circulation and endangering the welfare of a child, but acquitted at trial. (The case record is sealed, but Mr. Leder’s acquittal was discussed in a divorce-related hearing in September 2017; at this hearing, Mr. Leder denied the incident and denied ever being violent with any woman, according to the court transcript.)

Over the years Ms. Hettara told her story to business associates, she said, hoping they might stop working with him. “A lot of people didn’t care, because as you can see, the modeling agencies just sent him models,” she said.“I immediately got painted as this jealous housewife.”

In a 2014 issue of Jacques — themed around betrayal, with Mr. Leder off the masthead — Ms. Hettara identified herself as “a domestic abuse survivor” who “had a nervous breakdown because of it.” She and Ms. Palmer, who had broken from Mr. Leder, did a photo shoot together and exchanged emotional public letters.

“For a year I felt crazy,” Ms. Hettara wrote in her letter. “It’s part of his abuse — he makes you feel and look crazy.”

The week after Ms. Ratajkowski’s essay was published, Ms. Palmer, 29, wrote on Instagram that Mr. Leder was “my abuser,” too.

 

He would, she said, monitor her weight and control her hairstyle and clothing. He would tell her not to work with anyone else. He taught her that “my body can only be respected or appreciated if it’s naked,” she said. She has since changed her name, she said, to make a break with the person that he controlled.

While shooting Mr. Leder’s film in Florida — where she also temporarily lived with him, Ms. Hettara and their two children — she called her parents and agent to tell them she was scared and wanted to go home, she said.

Ms. Palmer’s agent emailed Mr. Leder in May 2011. In the note, reviewed by The Times, the agent told Mr. Leder that she’d spoken to Ms. Palmer and was concerned. She asked him to call Ms. Palmer’s father, as well as make other living arrangements for her: “While you feel sometimes like a big brother, also big brothers can be a pain to deal with and little sisters as well,” she wrote. She told Mr. Leder once the film got rolling, the footage of Ms. Palmer, then 19, “will be AMAZING.”

The movie, in which Ms. Palmer played a stripper, was not finished. Because of the unreleased footage in Mr. Leder’s possession, she said, she has worried about speaking out against him. She also drank while filming with him.

Shortly after Ms. Hettara and Mr. Leder separated, Ms. Hettara said she discovered in a storage locker several contact sheets from a magazine shoot he was hired to do in 2011. The subject was a 15-year-old girl, who, in some images, has her top unbuttoned to reveal a sheer bra; in another she was posed kneeling, with her legs slightly spread, on a mattress.

Models younger than 15 have long been used in fashion photography, but the photos Ms. Hettara found went further than her and Mr. Leder’s typical work with minors, she said, and she found them deeply troubling, as she has described in court documents.

 

Young girls still routinely find themselves asked to undress during shoots, and do not always feel empowered to say no, Ms. Ziff said

Often, models don’t feel comfortable complaining to their agent, she said, because “they don’t want to seem difficult to work with and jeopardize future bookings.”

Ms. Sorbara was photographed twice by Mr. Leder in Woodstock in November 2013: first for a blog and again for a publication by Mr. Leder that he would release the next year, “A Study in Fetishism: Manifesto, Vol. 1,” and featuring Ms. Ratajkowski.

Ms. Sorbara said she didn’t feel uncomfortable until the second shoot. When she arrived, she said, she was surprised by the concept: “1950s-1960s lesbian porn pinup.” At one point Mr. Leder asked her to kiss another model, who was then his girlfriend, and she said no. After seeing the photos, Ms. Sorbara asked, through her agent, that her name be removed from the project. Mr. Leder agreed according to emails provided to The Times.

Not only did “Vol. 1” include her name — and, on the cover, her photo — but over the next two years, she saw images from that shoot in a Los Angeles gallery show and in another art publication.

“These were photos that were used for different projects that I had never given him permission to use,” Ms. Sorbara said. 

She wanted her agency, Wilhelmina Models, to take legal action. “I trusted this photographer with these photos because the agency set me up with him,” she wrote in an email to the agency. “But now these photos are being reproduced and sold over and over again.”

An agent told her in 2015 he would look into it. But he added that he didn’t like her tone; he had been “against you shooting in that manor [sic] for a while,” he wrote, and this “should be a learning experience in your career to make sure not to put yourself in uncomfortable types of shoots.”

In a statement, Wilhelmina said that in Ms. Sorbara’s case, a lawyer advised the agency that “it was not likely that there had been a breach of contract that would enable Ms. Sorbara, or Wilhelmina, to pursue a claim.”

The following year, in 2016, she arrived at a casting call to discover the job was another shoot with Mr. Leder in Woodstock. He wasn’t at the casting, but she was distraught that her agency had put her in the position to potentially encounter him again.

She received an apology and was promised the agency had recorded that “you or no other girl should shoot with this photographer.”

But Ms. Sorbara said she believes “young women continue to get thrown into the fire pit” until “agencies take a stand,” or until there’s more industry oversight of photographers.

Ms. Sorbara also believes there are ethical ways to stage and share artistic nudes; the problem is not the content.

One photographer, Stacey Mark, said recently that before selling a print of a topless model to an interested buyer, she called the model to make sure it was OK. “She was like: I’ve never been asked that before,’” Ms. Mark said.

Ms. Mark shot for Jacques magazine, as well as more mainstream magazines. She has photographed both Ms. Sorbara and Ms. Palmer, who’ve both confided in her their experiences with Mr. Leder. She also dated Mr. Leder in the late ’90s and early 2000s. It was an unhealthy relationship, she said, describing him as manipulative and mean. On Instagram, after Ms. Ratajkowski’s essay was published, she called him “an abusive monster.”

She said she didn’t understand why agents continued sending models alone to his remote Woodstock home.

“That never made sense to me,” Ms. Mark said. “Who’s Jonathan? What are you going to get out of it? This isn’t Richard Avedon. Where are you going? You’re going into some pit to get some Polaroids naked? Because everybody knows that’s the work that he does.”

Throughout years of intense divorce and custody battles, with wide-ranging accusations and arrests of both parties — Ms. Hettara for failing to pay child support — she has also fought for ownership of her ideas and image.

She managed to take over Jacques, after years of what she said was watching Mr. Leder claim credit for her ideas and work. (This tension was evident during a 2010 interview with The Times, when Mr. Leder remembered calling the 2008 financial crisis “the perfect time to start something.” “You said that?” Ms. Hettara interjected. “I said that.”)

She wanted to get belongings back from Mr. Leder; during Ms. Ratajkowski’s shoot, Ms. Hettara said the model was dressed in her lingerie and holding her childhood teddy bear. (The bear has since been returned, she said.)

She wanted to walk down a street in Williamsburg without seeing a topless photo of herself on a passer-by’s T-shirt (sold by ASOS in 2013). In 2014, she sent a cease-and-desist letter to Mr. Leder after discovering he had included intimate footage of her in a video promoting a zine in which she did not appear.

Some of her battles have been unsuccessful. Jacques folded after its ninth edition in 2015.Mr. Leder has sole legal custody of their two children, although she sees them on alternate weekends and holidays (with extra weekends in certain months and a full month in the summer). 

In court documents, Ms. Hettara and Mr. Leder have accused each other of abandonment and neglect. He has called her “bizarre” and reported her to the Woodstock police for threatening his life (she has not been charged). 

Recently, representing herself pro se, Ms. Hettara tried to use Ms. Ratajkowski’s allegations to have her custody restored. Ms. Ratajkowski’s essay mentions the children multiple times, including when Ms. Ratajkowski wonders, post-assault, if she’s sleeping in his daughter’s bed. The order was denied.

Ms. Hettara, now 34, has never met or spoken to Ms. Ratajkowski, 29. But Ms. Palmer and Ms. Ratajkowski used to be friends, although they hadn’t shared their stories about Mr. Leder with each other until recently.

“The silver lining is that we finally get to find healing through it,” Ms. Palmer said.

Ms. Ratajkowski declined to be interviewed for this article but provided a statement through her publicist: “Writing ‘Buying Myself Back’ wasn’t easy to do and publishing it was even scarier. But hearing from other women (inside the industry and out) about how much it resonated with them and spoke to their own experiences made me feel hopeful and simply less alone — a feeling that shouldn’t be underestimated.

“It’s devastating to realize how many young women have been taken advantage of and felt powerless to do anything about it,” the statement said. 





No.29 article:
The Answer to What You Should Wear Now (Hint: It’s Not Sweatpants)

Jil Sander is back, with a new Uniqlo collaboration and a lot of opinions.

Just over a decade ago, when the world was reeling in the aftermath of the Great Recession, Jil Sander, the German designer whose uncompromising approach to minimalist luxury had defined a certain kind of soft-power dressing for ambitious women, swooped in to offer much needed palliative care.

Joining forces with Uniqlo, the Japanese fast-fashion giant, Ms. Sander rethought her special brand of high-minded basics with a less high-numbered price. The result became one of the most successful, and unexpected, mass-market/designer collaborations up to that point. It was one based less on momentary buzz and influencers than on solving problems, like how clothes can help get you through the day. Called +J, it ran for five seasons, gave Uniqlo instant cred in the West and was briefly revived in 2014 as a greatest hits line.

Now, as the world reels in the throes of another crisis, it is back.

And as it turns out, Ms. Sander, a 76-year-old from Hamburg who never played the social media or celebrity game, who is not on Instagram, who had an exhausting Hamletian relationship with high fashion (she left and returned to her namesake company twice after her initial departure), who has been essentially absent from fashion for the last six years, who missed the whole Kardashian moment — who many Gen Y and Zers may not even know — may be the ideal designer for this mid-#MeToo, social justice, Covid-19, climate crisis time.

She may, in fact, have the answer to the question that has been bedeviling not just fashion but all of us who have had to pull ourselves out of bed and the slough of despond to negotiate life since lockdown began: How do we dress, not necessarily for the world that comes next, but to face the world we are in?

The first thing to know: It does not involve sweatpants.

“I think that radical down-dressing is a drainer,” Ms. Sander said over the phone from Germany, where she has been stuck since February. (She is not a fan of Zoom.)

“I am a modernist, and believe in mapping the future,” she said. “I am stupefied by the nostalgic turn fashion continues to take. Dressing in yesterday’s styles depresses our capacity to deal with present problems. Not making an effort in the morning will slow down your day and disorient you. If we want to change the world, we have to keep renewing ourselves.”

She has been practicing what she preaches since she left fashion (or at least the public stage of fashion) six years ago for personal reasons. She took time off to garden — she has created a floral refuge in her country place outside of Hamburg inspired by the Sissinghurst gardens in England — spearheaded a multimedia retrospective of her career at the Angewandte Kunst museum in Frankfurt, as well as a book, and has been learning to cook. And though Ms. Sander and Uniqlo had been in various talks over the years, she had not felt moved to actually work on a new line until she felt she had something meaningful to say.

“I never stopped designing in my head,” she said. “Now I felt ready. I wanted to react to disposable fashion. I believe in designs I would wear myself. This has been the driving energy since my beginnings, when I found nothing to perform with as a business woman.”

(“Perform with” may be a bit of translation awkwardness, but it is also an accurate characterization of how we use clothes in life.)

Though Ms. Sander founded her company in 1968 and first showed in Paris in 1975, it was in the 1980s and ’90s that she really came into her own, offering an alternative to the big-shouldered, big-gold-buttoned brassiness of the go-go decade. Women gravitated toward the deceptive simplicity of her clothes, which married extreme architecture with extreme materiality so that each garment had an internal strength, and every line communicated purpose, forethought and empathy for the person within.

She was, effectively, Old Celine before Old Celine. Her clothes did not respond to, or even acknowledge, trends. Both her own line and her Uniqlo work were not meant for the moment — or for anyone desperate to show they were of the moment — but for the long term.

That’s part of what makes her clothes work so well now. Who wants something of this moment? This moment sucks. You want something that is beyond the moment. Above the moment.

At first Uniqlo wanted the safety of 10 “best pieces.” Ms. Sander said she argued for a whole collection, though not the bloated kind runway-goers have become used to, with 60 or 70 looks. Rather, she argued for a reduced-to-its-essence, all-you-need-and-nothing-else kind (excess stuff being the last thing anyone wants).

She started in January and went to Japan in February, though she has been working via videoconference since then. The result is a tightly edited collection of 25 pieces for men and 32 for women in a limited color palette (black, white, navy, burgundy) that fit together like an interlocking puzzle with no unnecessary parts.

There are crisp but non-constricting white cotton collarless shirts and black tuxedo button-ups that are best with the ties left louchely undone. A slouchy black pantsuit and neat collarless navy jacket. Thin, body-caressing knits. And a panoply of fantastic puffers with face-framing collars and sculpted silhouettes, as well as hoods that can be drawn up and turtled into.

Though there are separate lines for men and women, they can be mixed and matched as desired. (People will desire.) The prices range from $49.90 for the shirts and sweaters to $249.90 for the cashmere-blend overcoats.

“To me, it seems less important to express your sex than to show by the way you dress that you respect yourself,” Ms. Sander said. “I wanted to define the body without restricting it, to focus on controlled volumes, rather than just oversize, so it feels generous.”

Her own favorite piece is a white silk turtleneck. Her aim, she said, was to make clothes that were “indispensable.” That’s kind of a radical idea in a world in which we have become increasingly used to the idea of clothes as throwaway items.

But then, to her, these are not just clothes. They are “symbols,” she said. “We need symbols, even of a vestimentary kind, that encourage us and suggest new beginnings.”

Whether this suggests the beginning of a whole new line or simply a guest appearance from a fashion deity, designed to jump-start us in a new direction for the looming new year, however, she would not say.





No.30 article:
The Election’s Over, but Not the Stress. Any Edibles Left?

OAKLAND, Calif. — In the weeks leading up to November, Iashia Kilian felt her anxiety deepen.

She knew her vote in the swing state of Michigan could help decide who the next president would be. She had done everything she could to help campaign for her candidate of choice. Now, all she could do was sit back, wait and make sure she had her favorite marijuana edibles at hand.

“The panic, the anxious feelings, it has all been too much. I knew I was only going to get through it with some help,” said Ms. Kilian, 43, who lives in Center Line. “I used to be the kind of person who would judge someone, especially a mother like me, taking edibles. But you know what? Everything happening here in this country is just too much. The people need some help.”

For many people across the United States, help came in the form of gummy bears, cookies, chocolates and gel capsules, all infused with a dose of cannabis calibrated to soothe Election Day jitters. While nationwide sales information is hard to come by, companies that specialize in edibles said sales soared in the weeks leading up to the election.

No longer a fringe item limited to pot brownies in a college dorm, edibles are being sold as part of the wellness industry and marketed as pantry staples. Or, as one Facebook group recently boasted, there is now an edible for every type of anxiety.

National surveys and elections show that Americans are increasingly interested in legalizing marijuana use. According to polls from Gallup, support for legalization rose from 12 percent in 1969 to 31 percent in 2000 and 66 percent in 2019. And on Nov. 3, voters in New Jersey, South Dakota, Montana and Arizona added their states to the 11 others that had legalized recreational marijuana. Mississippi and South Dakota made medical marijuana legal, bringing that total to 35.

The Election Day sweep means legal marijuana sales will soon reach one-third of Americans, expanding a market already experiencing booming sales during the pandemic.

In Facebook groups dedicated to edibles, people shared recipes to help calm Election Day jitters. Biden Brownie Bites and Trump Truffles were two dessert recipes featured, along with a note that no matter what side of the partisan divide people fell on, they could probably use an edible to help get them through the wait as ballots were counted.

Even as news networks declared on Saturday that Joseph R. Biden Jr. was the president-elect, many people said they remained anxious about battles over the vote count making their way through the courts, and the uncertainty over President Trump’s transition from power.

“There was the pandemic, and then the summer with all the social justice issues, and now the election stress,” said Coco Meers, co-founder and chief executive of Equilibria, a women-focused company in Chicago that specializes in CBD, a hemp-derived compound. “It has been nonstop, and it has led to extraordinary demand of cannabis.”

Her sales over the past month have increased over 40 percent from previous months, without marketing or promotions, Ms. Meers said. Demand for CBD gel capsules has skyrocketed, along with a concierge service that helps Equilibria’s customers decide how much to take, how often and what time of the day the capsules are best ingested.

“It is definitely becoming normalized,” Ms. Meers said. “We are seeing grandmothers who never thought they would be open minded to cannabis calling us. Mom groups are discussing it openly. It has just become a recognized thing to help people with anxiety.”

In New York, Doug Cohen and his business partner, Miguel Trinidad, a chef, started a multicourse marijuana dining experience last year, typically costing $150 per person. During the pandemic, they shifted from meals to cooking courses, helping customers experiment with new ways to sauté, sear, broil and bake with marijuana at home. Demand for at-home edibles cooking classes skyrocketed as the election neared.

“I would say we had three or four times as many people reaching out to us for help over the last couple weeks,” Mr. Cohen said.

The cook-at-home items are less complicated than the marijuana-infused spicy Sichuan noodles or seared Japanese Wagyu beef that the business might serve at its dinners. One of the top requests is cherry-chile-chocolate-cannabis ice cream.

“Food as a concept is so much less scary than smoking. It feels easier, and something that can be part of your routine,” Mr. Cohen said. “If it can taste great and also help calm down your anxiety, it is a win-win.

He added that many customers had become more interested in marijuana edibles because, during the pandemic, they wanted to spare their lungs damage from smoking.

Medical professionals largely agree that edibles appear to be safer than smoking or vaping, but note that they carry some risk. The psychoactive effects from edibles can take hours to kick in, leading people to consume one gummy or chocolate too many as they grow impatient.

Daria Carmon, 39, said edibles had become part of her daily care routine before the election.

“It’s too tense, there is too much going on, and people need to practice self care,” said Ms. Carmon, who lives in Brooklyn. She added that the normalization of edibles meant that people openly shared and discussed what dosages, brands and types worked best for them.

She has learned, for instance, that her edibles need to “not be too tasty.”

“I had to stop buying these salted caramels because they were too delicious and I was worried I would go overboard,” Ms. Carmon said. “You can see a situation where you are watching election results come in and snacking and the tastiest thing in your house also happens to be your edible. Not good.”

In Michigan, Ms. Kilian said edibles had helped her get through the stress of waiting for election results, all while she watched the number of people infected with coronavirus in the United States rise each day and home-schooled her son.

On election night, she stayed awake until 3 a.m., watching the results of the vote slowly roll in.

“I had every news station going — NBC, Fox, CNN,” Ms. Kilian said. “I was listening to everyone, and they weren’t saying anything. If I had not had my edible, I would have been stressed. As it was, I felt a little stress, but I also felt a calm. I knew I could wait and find out who won.”

Days later, she was happy that she had the foresight to stock up on her favorite edibles.

“Shops are selling out — people are stressed,” she said. “People need their medicine.”





No.31 article:
Quotation of the Day: As Resurgence of Virus Overwhelms the States, Washington Pulls Back

“If every day, two jumbo jets would drop from the sky and kill everybody, don’t you think that everybody would be in a panic?”

DR. CARLOS DEL RIO, an infectious disease specialist at Emory University, referring to the death toll in the United States from the coronavirus pandemic.





No.32 article:
Trump’s Post-Election Tactics Put Him in Unsavory Company

Denying defeat, claiming fraud and using government machinery to reverse election results are the time-honored tools of dictators.

MOSCOW — When the strongman ruler of Belarus declared an implausible landslide victory in an election in August, and had himself sworn in for a sixth term as president, the United States and other Western nations denounced what they said was brazen defiance of the voters’ will.

President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko’s victory, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said last month, was “fraud.” Mr. Pompeo added: “We’ve opposed the fact that he’s now inaugurated himself. We know what the people of Belarus want. They want something different.”

Just a month on, Mr. Pompeo’s boss, President Trump, is now borrowing from Mr. Lukashenko’s playbook, joining a club of truculent leaders who, regardless of what voters decide, declare themselves the winners of elections.

That club counts as its members far more dictators, tyrants and potentates than leaders of what used to be known as the “free world” — countries that, led by Washington, have for decades lectured others on the need to hold elections and respect the result.

The parallel is not exact. Mr. Trump participated in a free and fair democratic election. Most autocrats defy voters before they even vote, excluding real rivals from the ballot and swamping the airwaves with one-sided coverage.

But when they do hold genuinely competitive votes and the result goes against them, they often ignore the result, denouncing it as the work of traitors, criminals and foreign saboteurs, and therefore invalid. By refusing to accept the results of last week’s election and working to delegitimize the vote, Mr. Trump is following a similar strategy.

There is little indication that Mr. Trump can overcome the laws and institutions that ensure the verdict of American voters will carry the day. The country has a free press, a strong and independent judiciary, election officials dedicated to an honest counting of the votes and a strong political opposition, none of which exists in Belarus or Russia.

Still, the United States has never before had to force an incumbent to concede a fair defeat at the polls. And merely by raising the possibility that he would have to be forced out of office, Mr. Trump has shattered the bedrock democratic tradition of a seamless transition.

The damage already done by Mr. Trump’s obduracy could be lasting. Ivan Krastev, an expert on East and Central Europe at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna, said Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede would “create a new model” for like-minded populists in Europe and elsewhere.

“When Trump won in 2016 the lesson was that they could trust democracy,” he said. “Now, they won’t trust democracy, and will do everything and anything to stay in power.” In what he called “the Lukashenko scenario,” leaders will still want to hold elections but “never lose.” President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has been doing that for two decades.

Among the anti-democratic tactics Mr. Trump has adopted are some that were commonly employed by leaders like Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela and Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia — refusing to concede defeat and hurling unfounded accusations of electoral fraud. The tactics also include undermining confidence in democratic institutions and the courts, attacking the press and vilifying opponents.

Like Mr. Trump, those leaders feared that accepting defeat would expose them to prosecution once they left office. Mr. Trump does not have to worry about being charged with war crimes and genocide, as Mr. Milosevic was, but he does face a tangle of legal problems.

Michael McFaul, the U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Barack Obama and a frequent critic of Mr. Trump, described the president’s “refusal to accept the results of the election” as “his parting gift to autocrats around the world.”

An early draft of the playbook used by leaders who never admit defeat was written in 1946 by the Socialist Unity Party, a communist outfit in the then Soviet-controlled eastern lands of Germany. Trounced in the first German election after World War II, the party, known as the SED, greeted its defeat with a bold headline in its newspaper — “Great Victory for SED!” — and took over ruling East Germany for the next 45 years.

It never risked a competitive election again.

When the Moscow-installed leader of Hungary, Matyas Rakosi,  watched as the Communist Party lost elections in 1945, he turned “pale as a corpse, slumped into his chair, without saying a word,” according to  a party official who was present and later described what happened to Hungarian historians. Within a year most of his opponents were dead, in prison or terrified into silence — and he was running the country.

Nobody expects Mr. Trump to follow that gruesome example. But by insisting he won a vote that results show he clearly lost, he has broken sharply with the norms of countries that view themselves as mature democracies.

“Trump’s behavior is without precedent among leaders in Western democracies,” said Serhii Plokhy, a Harvard historian who has studied former communist states like Ukraine. “Even in military dictatorships, the dictators more often than not honor the results of elections and they retire if they lose them.”

That the United States has fallen in with such bad company has stirred dismay and mockery among not only Mr. Trump’s political foes but also citizens of countries long accustomed to having leaders who overstay their welcome.

After decades of “preaching democracy to everyone else,” said Patrick Gathara, a cartoonist and political commentator in Kenya, the United States has been exposed as “drinking wine and preaching water.”

In November 2010, President Laurent Gbagbo of Ivory Coast refused to accept his loss in an election, suppressing protests with live ammunition, killing dozens and dragging the country into a brief civil war in which over 3,000 people died.

Like Mr. Trump, he freely used government machinery  to challenge the election result, insisting he had not been defeated. The crisis stretched out over almost five months and brought Ivory Coast to its knees economically.

With French military support, the president-elect, Alassane Ouattara, finally assumed power as Mr. Gbagbo — whose campaign slogan had been “We win or we win” — was dragged out of his bunker in Abidjan, the capital.

This year, Mr. Ouattara changed the constitution to allow him to run for a third term, and declared last week that he won in a landslide.

Even veteran dictators, however, sometimes concede defeat, particularly if they can engineer a succession that promises to guarantee their personal and financial security.

Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who seized power in 1973 in a military coup in Chile, accepted defeat in a 1988 constitutional referendum that would have allowed him to stay in office, and relinquished the presidency in 1990 after an opponent won a presidential vote.

 But he remained commander in chief and was made a senator-for-life immune from prosecution. (Still, he was arrested in 1998 in Britain after an extradition request by a Spanish judge investigating his alleged crimes while president.)

A 2018 study, based on elections around the world since 1950, found that only 12 percent of dictators who submit to elections and lose at the polls leave office peacefully. But military dictators, the study found, are generally more willing to concede defeat because they can return to the barracks and avoid getting arrested or killed.

“It is rare for dictators to step down, but when they do it is because, like Pinochet, they have a feasible alternative, such as rejoining the military, that allows them to avoid accountability for human rights abuses,” the study, by One Earth Future, a research group, said.

Mr. Trump’s refusal to accept the result of the election has resonated with particular force in Latin America.

Mr. Trump used almost every tool in his foreign policy arsenal against Venezuela’s president, Mr. Maduro, who fraudulently manufactured a victory in a May 2018 election despite his deep unpopularity and a calamitous economic crisis.

The vote was denounced by most Western and Latin American nations as neither free nor fair, and immediately brought fresh American sanctions. To punish Mr. Maduro, Mr. Trump  banned transactions in Venezuelan bonds, and imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuelan oil.

And in January 2019, Mr. Trump recognized Venezuela’s chief opposition leader and congressional speaker, Juan Guaidó, as the country’s legitimate leader, another major blow to Mr. Maduro. Dozens of America’s European and Latin American allies followed suit within days.

Mr. Trump condemned Mr. Maduro’s “usurpation of power” and said that all options, including military intervention, were on the table to remove Mr. Maduro from office and install Mr. Guaidó to the presidency.

Just in September, the Trump administration imposed additional sanctions against what it called the “Maduro regime’s attempts to corrupt democratic elections in Venezuela.”

Now, Mr. Trump is also refusing to accept the election results.

Temir Porras, a former minister in the Venezuelan government who has since left Mr. Maduro’s party, said Mr. Trump’s refusal to recognize the U.S. vote “delegitimizes” America’s role as an international arbiter of democracy.

“The argument of ‘moral superiority’ that the United States had,” he said, “without a doubt is affected by Trump’s behavior.”

Geoff Ramsey, the Venezuela director for the Washington Office on Latin America, a Washington-based research group, said: “How does the U.S. government expect to call for free and fair elections in Venezuela when our own president won’t recognize the results of a clean electoral process in our own country? It’s a propaganda gift to Maduro and every other autocrat around the world, and I guarantee they are loving every minute of this.”

Mr. Maduro certainly hasn’t missed the opportunity to gloat. “Donald Trump, here we don’t lose elections because we are the truth,” an upbeat Mr. Maduro said in a national address on Tuesday.





No.33 article:
BBC Orders Inquiry Into Diana Interview After Claim Princess Was Misled

A quarter-century after the princess admitted infidelity in a landmark interview with Martin Bashir, the journalist is facing renewed accusations of behaving unethically to secure the scoop.

LONDON — The extraordinarily candid interview with Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1995 — in which she spoke of her “crowded” marriage to Prince Charles, admitted an affair of her own and told how in her despair she suffered from “rampant bulimia” — rocked England.

Hailed by British journalists at the time as “the scoop of the century,” it was viewed by an estimated 23 million people and catapulted her BBC interviewer, Martin Bashir, to an international profile.

But this week, old questions about how Mr. Bashir secured the interview have resurfaced in a two-part documentary that aired on the British network ITV on Monday and Tuesday, including allegations that Mr. Bashir used dishonest tactics to earn Diana’s trust and persuade her into the interview.

Specifically, the documentary claims that doctored bank statements — purportedly proving that royal employees close to the princess were being paid for spying on her — were used to gain Diana’s trust.

The British Broadcasting Corporation, which aired the interview on its “Panorama” program and sold international rights for $1.6 million, announced that it would open an independent investigation into the allegations.

“The BBC is taking this very seriously, and we want to get to the truth,” Tim Davie, the corporation’s director general, said on Monday. “We are in the process of commissioning a robust and independent investigation.”

Mr. Bashir, now the religion editor of BBC News, has in the past faced questions about the tactics he used to secure the interview only to be exonerated in an earlier BBC internal investigation, and has been unable to respond to the latest allegations because he is sick.

The BBC has reported that he has been recovering from quadruple heart bypass surgery and complications from Covid-19, which he contracted earlier in the year. Neither the BBC nor Mr. Bashir immediately offered further comment.

Diana, who was legally separated from Prince Charles at the time of the interview but not yet divorced, died in 1997 in a car crash in Paris at age 36.

Michael Grade, a former BBC chairman, called the allegations “a very, very serious matter,” in a radio interview with the corporation, adding it left “a dark cloud hanging over BBC journalism.”

Even before the interview aired in 1995, it was the subject of widespread scrutiny and speculation. Aware of how sensitive it was, the BBC conducted the interview in such secrecy that its chairman at the time, Marmaduke Hussey, was not told about it, reportedly for fear that he would tell his wife, a lady-in-waiting to the queen.

On the weekend it aired, Mr. Bashir went into hiding to avoid the crush of media. The interview was conducted without the blessing of Queen Elizabeth II and enraged Buckingham Palace, leading the royal family to reconsider its relationship with the nation’s public broadcaster.

The BBC ordered an investigation into allegations of impropriety in 1996, and Mr. Bashir was cleared of wrongdoing by the corporation’s news chief at the time, Tony Hall. Mr. Hall himself later went on to lead the BBC, retiring as its director general in August this year.

Internal documents obtained in a Freedom of Information request by the journalist Andy Webb, who directed a documentary about the interview for another British network, Channel 4, show that Mr. Hall cleared Mr. Bashir while punishing a graphic designer, Matthias Wiessler, who produced the altered bank statements.

According to the documents, reported in the ITV documentary, Mr. Hall said that while Mr. Bashir was “an honest man” who was “deeply remorseful,” Mr. Wiessler would never work at the BBC again because he had spoken to the media about the events.

Speaking publicly for the first time, Mr. Wiessler said in an interview for the ITV documentary that the internal documents made it clear that he had been used as a scapegoat. He went on to claim that Mr. Bashir had asked him to mock up bank statements to be used as props for “filming purposes.”

He said that he did not know what they were used for until the interview aired. When he approached BBC managers about his concerns, he said, he was cautioned not speak to the media. But after an unsatisfying confrontation with Mr. Bashir, he ultimately spoke to a journalist, which helped set off the first inquiry.

“I quite clearly felt that I was the one that was going to be the fall guy in this story,” Mr. Wiessler said. His contract was not renewed, and he ultimately left the industry when work dried up, he said.

In a statement, Mr. Hall told BBC radio that the original investigation had focused on whether the princess had been misled, and that the corporation’s new inquiry would doubtless look at this alongside any new issues raised. He did not immediately respond to further requests for comment.

Mr. Bashir later moved to the United States and worked for ABC News and then as a political commentator for MSNBC. He resigned over denigrating comments he made about Sarah Palin in 2013 and later returned to the BBC.

The new revelations have reinvigorated questions over the media’s relationship with the princess and come after a sustained campaign by her brother, Earl Spencer, raising questions about how the interview was obtained.

“I knew that Martin Bashir used fake bank statements and other dishonesty to get my sister to do the interview,” the earl said on Sunday on Twitter, adding that he had only recently discovered that the BBC not only knew, but “covered it up.”

Mr. Wiessler told ITV that he wanted an apology, and that at the time BBC’s senior management, producers and presenters were “protecting themselves at all costs.”

He told the BBC on Tuesday that Mr. Bashir needed to speak out publicly.

“He’s the only one that has the answers,” he said.





No.34 article:
Was Reagan a Precursor to Trump? A New Documentary Says Yes

“The Reagans,” a new Showtime docu-series, presents Ronald Reagan as an early practitioner of dog-whistle politics. But some historians and journalists disagree with that position.

Was Ronald Reagan a kindhearted conservative who remade government and merits his standing as a beloved icon of the Republican Party? Or was he a glorified actor who won election with a coded racist appeal to white voters, setting the stage for the rise of President Trump?

That debate has long absorbed Reagan historians and biographers, particularly these days as Reagan’s legacy seems ever more gauzy when held up against these past four years of the just-defeated president.

And it is now being tackled in “The Reagans,” a four-part documentary on Ronald and Nancy Reagan premiering Sunday on Showtime. It is the work of Matt Tyrnauer, a documentarian whose past subjects have included Roy Cohn, the fashion designer Valentino and Studio 54.

Tyrnauer grew up in Los Angeles when Reagan was governor of California. As a boy being driven to school by his father, he sat in traffic as the motorcade taking the newly elected president from his home in the Pacific Palisades to a postelection news conference in Century City sped down Sunset Boulevard.

From the second installment of “The Reagans,” it is clear where Tyrnauer, who began his career as a junior aide in Democratic politics before moving into magazine writing and directing documentaries, comes down on Reagan’s place in the nation’s fraught history of race and politics. The episode opens with 40-year-old footage of Reagan in Mississippi, affirming his support for “states’ rights” at a county fair filled with white voters.

“The reason I wanted to make this was to show how Reagan in many ways paved the way for Trump — and the Republican Party that has now fallen into Trump’s hands,” he said in a video interview from his Coldwater Canyon home in Beverly Hills a week before Trump’s defeat was called. “I really thought it was very important to show that the Republican Party, certainly after the 1950s and since the era of this country’s civil rights movement and reckoning, has been on the wrong side of history. And Reagan was right at the center of that.”

Over the course of nearly four hours, the documentary explores Reagan’s boyhood in Illinois. It recounts his Hollywood years and the skills he learned as an actor — the bright smile, his affable if slightly inscrutable affect — that made him such a powerful candidate for president. Recalling Reagan’s first screen test, the studio head Jack Warner said, in a 1960s interview clip included in the documentary, that the actor’s “personality projected off the screen and into the audience.”

The series offers a portrait of Nancy Reagan as a powerful and manipulative behind-the-scenes player who was essential to her husband’s success. It follows Ronald Reagan’s evolution from a liberal, the son of two Democrats and the former head of the Screen Actors Guild, to a staunch anti-Communist conservative.

And it is striking, after this polarizing election and four years of the Trump presidency, to hear Reagan’s tough talk about law and order, to note his 1980 campaign slogan — “Make America Great Again” — and to watch the parallels between a movie star and a reality television star, both of whom knew how to command the attention of the American public and the media.

But more than anything, this documentary is animated by the notion of Reagan as an early practitioner of dog-whistle politics, a member of the generation of politicians who used coded appeals directed at an attuned audience of white voters.

“I believe in states’ rights,” he said in the summer of 1980 at the Neshoba County Fair near Philadelphia, Miss., seven miles from where three civil rights workers were murdered in 1964. It is a dramatic moment in which he seemingly affirms the power of Southern states to defy a federal government trying to end discrimination: The camera follows as he steps off his campaign plane to be greeted by a grinning Trent Lott, then a United States Representative from Mississippi, and shadows his motorcade winding through crowds of white voters.

To be clear, the idea of Reagan as a politician who swam in the waters of American racism, preparing the way for a Trump presidency, is not a consensus position.

“To me, Reagan is the anti-Trump,” Lou Cannon, the former Washington Post reporter and Reagan biographer who appears in the documentary, said last week. “If you look at Reagan’s presidency, you did not see a career of racial incitement. It’s not a fair rap.”

“Reagan is the antithesis of Trump in so many ways,” he added. “He was uniformly courteous and nice and decent to people. Trump, by the way he acts, has made us see that human decency in a political leader is important. Second, he was a compromiser. He always said that he was willing to take half a loaf. He got legislation through because of that.”

The historian Rick Perlstein cautioned against reading too much significance into the Mississippi speech, arguing that it oversimplified Reagan’s complicated relationship with race. “Liberals, and I am a proud liberal, are always looking for smoking guns to prove that conservatives are racist,” Perlstein said an interview.

In his new book, “Reaganland: America’s Right Turn 1976-1980,” Perlstein says the former president’s invocation of states’ rights was halfhearted, buried midway into his speech, inserted at Lott’s suggestion. (And to what end? Reagan barely squeaked by Jimmy Carter in Mississippi.)

Tyrnauer is not a presence in any of his documentaries, and he is heard only twice in “The Reagans,” asking questions off-camera. He builds his case with interviews — Ron Reagan Jr., surviving members of Reagan’s White House, journalists from the era and historians — along with contemporaneous news clips and rare archival film footage.

“What I look for is the obscure stuff, or the angles you never saw,” he said. The documentary opens with behind-the-scenes footage in which Reagan’s advertising team is filming the president speaking in the Oval Office for a 1984 campaign commercial. At the side of the shot, aides look at a stopwatch, impressed that this former actor clocked in for the 60-second advertisement at 57 seconds. Tyrnauer tracked down a lost documentary about Nancy Reagan from when Reagan was governor, with intimate shots of the new governor and his family moving into their new home in Sacramento, and scenes of Mrs. Reagan back in Los Angeles shopping for dog food at the Brentwood Country Mart (and admitting, with obvious chagrin, that she did not have money to pay for it).

Most of all, in making his case against the former president, Tyrnauer draws on footage of Reagan in his early days as a politician, as he likened streets in crime-stricken urban areas to “jungle paths” and talked about “welfare queens” in disparaging what he described as a liberal state.

“What was really astonishing to me was seeing how much film there was of Reagan in the act of dog whistling,” Tyrnauer said. “And some of his dog whistles at the time would be considered foghorns today.”

I met Tyrnauer while covering the 1988 presidential campaign; he was an assistant at the Boston headquarters of Michael Dukakis, the Democrat who would lose to George H.W. Bush. Tyrnauer left politics to become a writer at Vanity Fair before turning to directing documentaries. His first, Valentino, the Last Emperor,” released in 2009, was based on a profile he wrote in Vanity Fair. His Cohn documentary, “Where’s My Roy Cohn?,” explored the relationship between Cohn and one of his most famous law clients, Donald J. Trump.

Needless to say, it’s an eclectic portfolio.

The Reagan documentary would have been challenging at any time — the Reagans are well-plowed ground. It may have been 32 years since the end of his presidency, but he is remembered by millions of Americans, defined for many of them by the upbeat advertisement that opened with the words “It’s morning again in America,” which helped lift him to a landslide re-election over Walter F. Mondale in 1984. Nancy Reagan was, apart from Hillary Clinton, arguably the most powerful and polarizing first lady of the past 75 years.

But this project was complicated by the onset of the pandemic. Tyrnauer and his staff were forced to work from their homes. Archives, and in particular the files and videos collected by the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., abruptly shut down.

Interviews became far more complicated. Most of the subjects are, not surprisingly, older and thus wary of letting a film crew into their homes. Tyrnauer finished his interview with Lesley Stahl, the Reagan White House reporter for CBS, a week before she was hospitalized with Covid. Tyrnauer, changing gears, conducted half of the project’s 30 interviews by video from his home, sending in local film crews.

Many top figures in Reagan’s world sat down for interviews, including James Baker, who was Reagan’s chief of staff, George Shultz, the secretary of state, and Colin Powell, the national security adviser. The Reagans’ son, Ron Jr., is a prominent voice throughout the series, chatty and candid. But their daughter, Patti Davis, is notably absent. (Tyrnauer said she was working on another project.)

Stahl, in her interview, describes the allure this first family had over the media as she recalls the first time he stepped into the White House briefing room to talk to the press. “We all kind of melted,” she says. “We were puddles on the floor.”

Most jarring, for anyone looking for parallels between the Trump and Reagan years, is the appearance by Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The coronavirus crisis is not his first experience with either a pandemic or a president who failed to deal with one: Reagan largely ignored the deadly AIDS epidemic during its early years, and the documentary presents this as one of his most consequential failures as president.

“I was very frustrated with seeing an emerging catastrophe, and he wanted nothing to do with it,” Fauci says.

As a rule, Americans’ views of presidents soften with time — Trump may prove to be the exception — and that certainly happened with Reagan. But this documentary invites a reappraisal. It is a harsh portrait of Reagan as a politician and as a president, and it seems likely to reignite old arguments. Tyrnauer argues that Reagan has been protected by historians, Republicans and journalists because of his political success and likability.

“You can listen to podcast after podcast today of respectable historians talking about all of the dog whistle sins of the past,” Tyrnauer said. “George Wallace comes up, and Richard Nixon comes up with the Southern Strategy. And Willie Horton comes up and George H.W. Bush comes up. Reagan is shockingly absent from all those narratives and discussions.”

“He was an extraordinarily intuitive politician and ultimately among the most successful of his generation,” Tyrnauer said. “But how is he not held accountable?”





No.35 article:
With Village Beheadings, Islamic State Intensifies Attacks in Mozambique

The United Nations called for an investigation into reports of many people beheaded in northern Mozambique, where Islamist insurgents have stepped up a brutal campaign.

NAIROBI, Kenya — The Islamic State militants, by several accounts, struck the tiny farming community on a plateau in northern Mozambique during an initiation rite to induct teenage boys into manhood.

Armed with machetes, the attackers beheaded as many as 20 boys and men in the village of 24 de Marco, according to a local media report that was confirmed on Wednesday by ACLED, an American crisis monitoring group that maps the exploding insurgency in Mozambique.

The atrocityin early November was just one episode in a brutal conflict unfolding in Cabo Delgado, a remote, resource-rich province of northern Mozambique. Insurgents who pledge allegiance to the Islamic State have grown dramatically in strength this year — seizing territory, capturing a port and stepping up brutal attacks on civilians that often involve beheadings.

The deepening humanitarian crisis has displaced at least 355,000 people according to the United Nations — up from 90,000 in January.

The militants’ success is also a sign of a worrisome trend: As the Islamic State’s influence wanes in the Middle East, it is surging in pockets of Africa, with brazen offshoots gaining ground in western, central and, now, southern corners of the continent.

In a statement late Tuesday, U.N. Secretary General António Guterres said he was “shocked” by reports from news agencies that up to 50 people had been beheaded in the district of Muidumbe, where the village of 24 de Marco is located, including women and children, and he called on Mozambique to mount an immediate investigation.

There was no immediate response from the government of President Filipe Nyusi, whose Makonde ethnic group comes from the same region.

“These decapitations, which remind people of Syria and Iraq, scare everyone,” said Eric Morier-Genoud, a professor of African history at Queens University Belfast, who specializes in Mozambique. “It’s a grim situation that is worsening quickly because the militants’ capacity seems to be growing.”

The insurgency, which started in 2017 with a group known locally as Al-Sunna wa Jama’a, originally drew on a stew of local grievances in Cabo Delgado, a province of vast forests and immense mineral reserves, including graphite and ruby mines, along Mozambique’s border with Tanzania.

In 2019 the group became identified with the Islamic State’s Central Africa Province, which also has a presence in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and this year escalated its campaign with increasingly brutal assaults on civilians and by snatching territory from the government.

Its biggest exploit came in August with the capture of the port of Mocimboa da Praia. Farther north, the group seized territory around Palma, a port that is the main base for international energy companies hoping to exploit Mozambique’s untapped offshore gas reserves, estimated to be the world’s second largest.

Beheadings are a common feature of Islamic State attacks in Mozambique, said Zenaida Machado, a researcher with Human Rights Watch, who estimated that the majority of over 2,000 civilian victims of the conflict had been decapitated.

“They use machetes,” she said, referring to the militants. “Initially they had specific targets when they attacked a village — state officials, teachers, nurses, local chiefs. Now it’s random.”

Exact details on attacks are hard to establish because Mozambique has barred journalists and human rights researchers from the conflict zone, and most international aid agencies have fled.

After the Muidumbe attacks, Pinnacle News, a local news service, reported that militants had gathered the 20 bodies, along with victims from other sites, at a soccer pitch in Muatide village in a gruesome display intended to strike fear into the local community.

Days after the attack, an Agence France-Presse report cited a local aid worker who described the funerals for 15 boys who were killed in the initiation ceremony.

Of the 355,000 civilians displaced by conflict, about 100,000 have poured into the regional capital, Pemba, which has avoided the fighting. Others have taken shelter in a chain of islands off the coast of Cabo Delgado, an area that until recently was a destination for high-end tourism. Even there, though, they are not safe from attack.

Last month, according to local news reports, Islamic State fighters raided the island of Matemo, which has seen a major cholera outbreak, and attacked or kidnapped displaced people as they searched for food and other provisions.

Other refugees have drowned at sea after their overcrowded boats capsized, including 54 who perished on a craft bound for Pemba on Oct. 29 according to Zitamar, an independent news service that follows the insurgency closely.

And on Aug. 13, at least 40 refugees were killed after government forces opened fire on their boat, apparently mistaking it for an insurgent craft, ACLED reported.

The pandemic has exacerbated the crisis, with Cabo Delgado reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Mozambique. The province’s infrastructure had been hit by tropical cyclone Kenneth in April 2019 — the strongest ever to hit the African continent — destroying key bridges that have been only partially rebuilt.

The beleaguered Mozambique security services have turned to foreigners to help fight back, with mixed results. In 2019 several Russians with the Wagner Group, a private military company linked to the Kremlin, were captured and killed, according to several reports, precipitating Wagner’s exit from Mozambique.

More recently Mozambique has turned to a South Africa-based military company, which introduced armed helicopters to the fight but has struggled to make inroads against militants hiding in the area’s dense forests.

Divisions inside Mozambique’s security services, which human rights groups have frequently accused of abuses against civilians in Cabo Delgado, have further hampered the counterinsurgency effort. Last month, some police officers in Pemba were disciplined after they refused to patrol following complaints the army was paid more.

The exact nature of the relationship between the insurgents and the Islamic State in the Middle East is unclear.

Islamic State publications often carry accounts of operations in Mozambique, as well as photos, and there have been reports of Islamic State trainers traveling to Mozambique.

But experts say it is unclear whether the insurgents in Mozambique are being directed from the outside, or if they are merely exploiting the power of the Islamic State brand in a franchise-style arrangement.

And while the militants claim to be targeting Christians, in practice they make little distinction between their victims, said Sam Ratner, a contributing editor at Zitamar News.

“ISIS propaganda says they burned a Christian village or killed Christian soldiers,” Mr. Ratner said. “But on the ground, we’re not seeing a lot of differentiation between Christians and Muslims. They do not appear to be targeting churches in particular, for instance.”

Meanwhile the insurgency has begun to spill over Mozambique’s borders, alarming its neighbors.

In late October, Mozambique-based Islamic State militants attacked several villages in southern Tanzania, Tanzanian authorities said. Days later, residents of two villages in Mozambique reported rocket fire from inside Tanzania that injured 12 civilians.

The Mozambican government, at odds with Tanzania over its handling of the insurgency, did not publicly comment on the episode.

On Tuesday the president of Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa, condemned the reported “acts of barbarity” in northern Mozambique and offered Zimbabwe’s help with the fight.

“The security of our region is paramount to the protection of our people,” he said.





No.36 article:
When Trump Vandalizes Our Country

The president should grit his teeth and repeat Hillary Clinton’s line from 2016: “We must accept this result.”

As it became clear that she would lose the 2016 election and news organizations called the race for Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton spoke to her supporters.

“We must accept this result,” she declared. “Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.”

She did not boast that she had won 2.9 million more votes than Trump. She did not file lawsuits to try to reverse thin margins. And she did not offer evidence-free allegations of voter fraud — as Trump did, even though he had won. Rather, she buttressed the norm in American electoral politics of the loser acknowledging the winner.

This norm is as traditional as it is wrenching for the losers. In conceding the presidential race in 1952 and sharing how he felt, Adlai Stevenson recalled what Lincoln supposedly said after losing an election: “He said he felt like a little boy who had stubbed his toe in the dark. He was too old to cry, but it hurt too much to laugh.” Still, Stevenson resolutely called on his backers to support Dwight Eisenhower in the presidency.

In 2000, after the Supreme Court effectively ended Al Gore’s quest for the presidency, Gore likewise admitted his heartache but urged voters: “I call on all Americans — I particularly urge all who stood with us — to unite behind our next president.”

Trump might study the particularly eloquent speech by John McCain as he conceded to Barack Obama in 2008. McCain said: “I urge all Americans who supported me to join me in not just congratulating him but offering our next president our good will and earnest effort to find ways to come together.”

President Trump’s pattern instead has been to scrape the wounds opened during campaigns, for he has been a sore loser as well as a sore winner. In 2016, when Trump lost the Iowa caucuses, he claimed that “Ted Cruz didn’t win Iowa, he stole it.”

Today Trump is not simply saying that we should wait for every vote to be counted in the 2020 election. Rather, he is fabricating election fraud and falsely claiming that he won, sowing doubts within his base about American democracy itself. A Politico/Morning Consult poll found that 70 percent of Republicans don’t believe the election was free and fair.

Republican officials have, with some noble exceptions, joined Trump in this dangerous charade, with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo asserting — perhaps jokingly — that “there will be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration.”

The blunt truth is that there is zero evidence of widespread fraud or impropriety, and in any case, the average statewide recount over 20 years has resulted in a shift of just 430 votes. There is no realistic chance for recounts to shift enough votes for Trump to win a second term.

Yet Trump is denying reality and impeding a lawful transition in ways that diminish the United States before the world, that make our country less governable and that risk inciting violence. This is presidential vandalism.

Can America heal?

The most likely course ahead, I believe, is that reality will gradually take hold: Trump’s litigation will fail, voting results will be certified and the Trump administration will grumpily accept the inevitable and cooperate with a transition.

But I may be wrong. If Republicans egg Trump on, rather than try to rein him in, might he try to block the transition in ways that would be comparable to an attempted coup d’état?

Sean Wilentz, the historian, told my colleague Thomas B. Edsall that if Trump were to deny the legitimacy of Joe Biden’s election, “It would be an act of disloyalty unsurpassed in American history except by the Southern secession in 1860-61.”

One impediment to healing is that we now all have our own news ecosystems to feed our selection bias, reinforce our prejudices and dial up our outrage. In recent days I’ve been tuning to the conservative outlet One America News, and it’s the simplest way to travel to another planet: On that planet, Democrats are engaging in massive election fraud and trying to steal the election. If you live on that planet, with Facebook feeds that reinforce that fiction, you’re not inclined to sing “Kumbaya.”

Yet we have to try to heal and reassert norms of civility that are the lubricant that make democracy work. Biden has modeled those norms in his outreach to Trump voters, in empathizing with their disappointment, in quoting the Bible in his call for Americans to unite and heal. But it will take all of us, on both sides of this divide, to join him.

Republicans scoff that Democrats, after delegitimizing Trump for four years, now preach harmony. I take their point. But for the most part Democrats protested that Trump was a bad president, not that he wasn’t president at all. It is possible, imperfectly, to uphold norms both of acknowledging losses and of pushing accountability.

The day after the 2016 election I wrote a column saying that “having lost, we owe it to our nation to grit our teeth and give President-elect Trump a chance.” I now invite Republicans, having lost, to grit their teeth and give President-elect Biden a chance.





No.37 article:
Stream These 15 Titles Before They Leave Netflix in November

Like Brad Pitt and Jake Gyllenhaal? How about Wednesday Addams? Catch them on the streaming service while you can.

Fans of Brad Pitt and Jake Gyllenhaal will be disappointed to learn that Netflix is losing not one, but two vehicles for each star in November (and more than that for Pitt if you count all the “Ocean’s” movies that are leaving, at least temporarily). Elsewhere, we have cop movies, a Broadway musical, a musical documentary (?), indies aplenty and Oscar nominees galore. (Dates identify the last day a title will be available.)

Young filmmakers are often told to write what they know, and Trey Edward Shults certainly took that advice to heart: His 2016 debut feature is based on the struggles and conflicts of his family, many of whom appear in the film as versions of themselves. (He also shot the film in his family home.) It sounds like a formula for microbudget navel-gazing, but quite the contrary. Shults’ proximity to the material gives it an uncommon intimacy, and while his distinctive style — using a visual and aural aesthetic closer to that of horror cinema than of domestic drama — renders this an especially unnerving viewing experience.Stream it here.

Do you think your pop culture obsession is niche? If so, seek out this delightful documentary, chronicling the archival exploits of one Steve Young. A longtime writer for David Letterman, Young’s record store crate digging led him to the world of “industrial musicals”: full-scale Broadway-style productions created specifically for corporate conventions, often providing a nice paycheck for up-and-coming musicians, lyricists and performers. Their recordings first strike Young as amusing curios, but the more he learns about this little-known sub-scene, the more fascinated he becomes. The director Dava Whisenant shares Young’s interest and enthusiasm while subtly posing questions about what separates art from commerce, and about who makes that distinction.Stream it here.

A struggling punk band gets a gig that sounds too good to be true — and proves to be — in this claustrophobic, white-knuckle thriller from the writer and director Jeremy Saulnier. Booked at the last minute at an off-the-map roadhouse, the bandmates are horrified to discover that they’re playing for a white supremacist gang, and when they’re unlucky enough to witness a backstage murder, things really start to get ugly. Saulnier plays up the claustrophobia of the location as the savage skinheads descend on his protagonists, building tension and suspense sequences with skill and ingenuity. But his secret weapon is the great Patrick Stewart, cast against type as the menacing father figure of their tormentors.Stream it here.

The late 1980s and early 1990s were the salad days of adapting classic television series into films, with diminishing results; for every “The Fugitive,” there were three or four “Car 54, Where Are You?”s. But one of the rare artistic successes was this 1991 dark comedy from the director Barry Sonnenfeld, which aped the spirit of both the supernatural sitcom and the Charles Addams cartoons that inspired it. Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston are magnificent as the heads of the title family, finding a perfect note of lustful abandon and dark domestic bliss, while Christina Ricci shines as little Wednesday Addams, sporting the best cinematic deadpan this side of Buster Keaton.Stream it here.

He’s known only as the Driver, and all he does is drive — stunt cars by day for the movies, getaway cars at night for criminals. Ryan Gosling resists the urge to over-explain this enigmatic young man, instead embracing his mystery and effortless cool in this moody, violent neo-noir thriller from the director Nicolas Winding Refn. Carey Mulligan co-stars as the friendly neighbor who garners his sympathy and trust (and perhaps more), leading him into a job that goes very wrong, very fast. Top-notch supporting performances abound from Bryan Cranston, Christina Hendricks, Osar Issac and especially Albert Brooks, unexpectedly effective as a ruthless crime boss.Stream it here.

Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Peña star as two Los Angeles cops working the street gang beat in this action drama from the writer and director David Ayer (“Training Day”). He’s dealing with material that is, to put it mildly, not exactly fresh: the buddy cop dynamic, rival gang wars, the difficulty of honest policing. But he takes a novel approach, framing the picture in a pseudo-documentary format, using personal videos, dash cam footage and the like. And he wisely keeps the focus on the byplay between Gyllenhaal and Peña, who invest their characters with enough depth and genuine affection to keep the film from surrendering to formula.Stream it here.

The directors Jonathan Milott and Cary Murnion adopt a similarly stylish approach for this 2017 indie action movie, which unfolds as a series of long, seemingly unbroken takes, shot with a relentlessly prowling camera. The unnerving (and not altogether far-fetched) narrative has the citizens of Brooklyn under attack from a nationalist militia, with gunfights and hand-to-hand combat among the brownstones. But the biggest draw is Dave Bautista, who summons just the right mixture of offhand skill and muted reluctance as a former military man who must fight his own demons while fighting for his life.Stream it here.

Matthew McConaughey got his big break playing a lawyer (in the 1996 film “A Time to Kill”), so it made sense that when he needed to revive his flagging career, he would play one again. This 2011 adaptation of the Michael Connelly novel casts McConaughey as Mickey Haller, a slick criminal defense lawyer who runs his practice from inside his snazzy Lincoln Town Car. It’s a perfect role for McConaughey, who captures the character’s sleazy charisma while making his inevitable personal growth seem organic. And the director Brad Furman knows exactly the kind of movie he’s making: the sort of trashy airport-novel adaptation that’s not going to win awards but proves an amiable way to pass a lazy afternoon.Stream it here.

It wasn’t so unusual, once upon a time, for genre movies to come loaded with social commentary and pointed subtext — which is perhaps why this 2008 thriller from the director Neil LaBute makes such an impact. Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington star as a newlywed couple whose big move into their dream home is disrupted by their neighbor (Samuel L. Jackson), an Los Angeles police officer who seems more than a little unstable. The basic premise mirrors such cop-harassment tales as “Unlawful Entry,” but the smart screenplay by David Loughery and Howard Korder wrestles with questions of race, class and police brutality, turning what could have been a common suspense flick into a thoughtful potboiler.Stream it here.

It would seem impossible to craft an entertaining film adaptation of Michael Lewis’s dense nonfiction account of number-crunching in baseball — much less to make one as breezy and engaging as this one. But the screenplay by Steven Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin finds the proper balance of egghead theory and character development, Bennett Miller’s direction is fleet-footed without being lightweight, Brad Pitt’s restless charisma has rarely found a more appropriate showcase, and the supporting cast (including Jonah Hill, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Robin Wright and Chris Pratt) is, well, an all-star team.Stream it here.

Pitt is similarly terrific — charming, funny and cool — in Steven Soderbergh’s star-studded adaptation of the 1960 Rat Pack-centered heist picture. George Clooney stars as Danny Ocean, a con man (and ex-con) hellbent on ripping off a Las Vegas casino magnate (Andy Garcia) who also happens to be the paramour of Danny’s ex-wife (Julia Roberts). The supporting players (including Matt Damon, Carl Reiner, Bernie Mac, Elliott Gould and Don Cheadle) crackle and pop, while Ted Griffin’s clever screenplay runs with the precision of a Swiss watch. (Its two sequels, “Ocean’s Twelve” and “Ocean’s Thirteen,” also leave Netflix this month and are also worth your time.)Stream it here.

Edward James Olmos nabbed an Oscar nomination for his eccentric, funny and heartfelt performance as the high school teacher Jaime Escalante in this true story from the director Ramón Menéndez. Escalante was sent into the math classes of his East Los Angeles school with only a faint hope of raising the school’s dismal test scores; instead, he coached them not only to acquire basic math skills but also to take and ace the A.P. calculus exam. Menéndez ticks the boxes of the “inspirational teacher” narrative without surrendering to cliché, detailing how Escalante used his quirky personality and unwavering faith to push his students to thrive.Stream it here.

Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Arthur Laurents’s ingenious musical adaptation of “Romeo and Juliet,” which updated its setting and story to the streets and gangs of New York, remains one of the towering achievements of the Broadway stage. So it’s no surprise that it spawned one of the great movie musicals. The original stage director and choreographer Jerome Robbins and the filmmaker Robert Wise shared directorial duties, thrillingly placing the show’s songs and dances on the real streets of New York City while using the proximity and intimacy of the camera to render the longing and loss of the story even more poignant. Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer perform admirably in the leads, but Rita Moreno and George Chakiris steal the show in support — and won Oscars for their efforts, two of the film’s astonishing ten-statue haul, which included prizes for best picture and best director.Stream it here.

This 2001 road movie from Alfonso Cuarón marked his true breakthrough as an international filmmaking force — and it remains one of his best films, funny and evocative and unapologetically sexy. Diego Luna and Gael García Bernal (both unknowns at the time) star as teenage best buddies who convince a sensuous older woman (Maribel Verdú) to join them on a road trip to an exotic beach. They think they’re in for a weekend of hedonism, but she has other ideas as the three embark on a journey of surprising tenderness and emotional reckoning.Stream it here.

With David Fincher’s new made-for-Netflix feature, “Mank,” on the runway for a December streaming debut, it seems odd that the service is pulling his best picture to date, this 2007 examination of the crimes, investigation and ultimate mystery of the Zodiac killer. Jake Gyllenhaal is a newspaper cartoonist whose casual interest in the case becomes an obsession; Robert Downey Jr. is his columnist colleague whose own obsession rounds the corner into near-madness. Mark Ruffalo rounds out the cast as the San Francisco police detective who keeps hitting brick walls himself.Stream it here.





No.38 article:
India’s Covid-19 Cases Have Plummeted. Many Fear a New Wave.

While some hope the worst might be over, lapsed vigilance, cold weather and the festival season could spark a resurgence.

NEW DELHI — Two months ago, India looked like a coronavirus disaster zone.

Reported infections neared 100,000 a day, deaths were shooting up, and India seemed ready to surpass the United States in total recorded cases.

Today, India’s situation looks much different. Reported infections, deaths and the share of people testing positive have all fallen significantly. By contrast, infections in Europe and the United States are surging.

But doubts persist about the reasons for India’s drop, and some researchers say the results stem at least in part from a possible change in testing, though researchers say they do not have access to complete data to really know the big picture. The experts generally agree that the number of infections has far outstripped efforts to track them in India, like elsewhere, and that infections in the country could still get considerably worse.

There has also been a shift in collective thinking, and experts worry that India has begun to lower its guard. After an intense lockdown in the spring and restrictions on social gatherings through the summer, the government has been steadily unlocking. There’s no talk of locking down again.

The overall mood seems to be, “Let’s move on.”

Mobility data show that Indians have returned to shopping areas and public spaces. Many are not wearing masks. A large chunk of the population seems resigned to the threat of infection.

“People are saying: ‘What the hell, we have to learn to live with it. God knows how long it will last,’” said Dr. Naresh Trehan, a cardiologist and the head of the Medanta hospital chain, based near New Delhi.

In many places, he added: “People are partying like there is no tomorrow. So if you do things like that, you are bound to suffer.”

Many doctors here believe it’s just a matter of time before the cases start shooting up again. Other countries, including the United States, France and Germany, thought the worst virus days were behind them, only to hit new highs.

Parsing the course of the outbreak is difficult anywhere, and the next few weeks could complicate the picture. Cooler weather could spur a rise in infections. The Hindu holiday season, when millions of people travel to see relatives and flock to stores to load up on gifts for Diwali, Hinduism’s festival of lights, is beginning.

Air pollution in India’s cities is also increasing, as it does every fall and winter, and doctors fear that toxic air could lead to more hospitalizations and deaths from Covid-19. Some areas are seeing spikes, even as the national numbers fall. New Delhi, for example, is currently hitting record highs.

“The unexposed, the elderly, the young who missed the first two waves” could still get sick, said P. Umanath, a doctor and civil servant helping to supply testing kits in Tamil Nadu State.

The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington projects that India’s cases will soon increase again and exceed one million daily infections — many of them never detected — by year’s end, in part on the assumption that India does not widely embrace wearing masks.

Still, for the moment, official numbers suggest the coronavirus is in retreat. From a high point of nearly 98,000 daily infections on Sept. 16, the average dropped to about 46,000 cases per day this past week. The number of daily virus deaths has fallen to around 500 from 1,200 in mid-September, and India’s overall death toll is still much lower, per capita, than that in many other countries. By official figures, India has had about 8.5 million infections, trailing the United States by about 1.5 million.

The government has claimed credit, citing its lockdown in the spring and a public awareness campaign, even as it has urged the Indian people to remain vigilant.

“Things are getting better,” said Harsh Vardhan, India’s health minister. “However, there is no room for complacency.”

Several prominent scientists and doctors have been reluctant to accept that India’s overall infections are dropping, saying the lower numbers could be explained by the increased use of less reliable tests and fewer tests.

The number of tests performed each day varies, but on average it has remained around 1.1 million for the past two and half months, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, the top government body aggregating Covid-19 data.

And the council points to a drop in the positivity rate across the country, or the share of administered tests that find the coronavirus, to 3.7 percent this week from 8.6 percent in mid-September.

The council also said the country had decreased its reliance on rapid antigen tests, which detect viral proteins called antigens and are considered less sensitive than other tests, to 41 percent now from 47 percent in mid-September.

Data from the more reliable tests — called polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, tests — showed a similar decrease in infections, said the council’s director general, Balram Bhargava.

“We are seeing that downward trend clearly,” Mr. Bhargava said.

Even more broadly, scientists believe that testing cannot capture the full spread of the disease in India or in any other countries.

Surveys of blood samples have suggested that at least 15 percent of residents of certain urban areas may have already contracted the virus. A new blood sample survey estimated that more than one-quarter of people in Karnataka, a large southern state with a population of more than 60 million, had already been infected.

Just how many people in India have contracted the disease, and may have developed protective antibodies, is the big question. A government-backed study based on mathematical projections — employing a model typically used to track the progression of a disease — estimated that nearly one-third of the country had already contracted the virus. The scientists estimated the number of undetected cases for each recorded infection by using data showing the rates of transmission in India, the numbers of infected and the numbers of recoveries.

While other scientists cast doubt on that study, they believe infections have reached 200 million, or at least 15 percent of the population, undetected.

“The government and the public have focused on the recoveries and low fatalities and decided to let the virus take its own natural course and cruise toward herd immunity, if that can be attained,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan’s School of Public Health who tracks India closely.

Controlling the outbreak in India would be difficult under any circumstances. Much of its population lives in close quarters. The health care system is vastly underfunded. The government is a freewheeling democracy that doesn’t exert the same level of control of a nation like China.

Like many other countries, India imposed a broad lockdown that brought the economy to a halt. But much of it was lifted after two months, when officials concluded that the restrictions were killing the economy.

India has room for spread. Though some people work from home, doing so is a luxury that most can only dream of. Countless millions have to circulate every day on the streets to feed their families.

“India could light up like a Christmas tree in the next three or four months,” said Michael Osterholm, an epidemiologist at the University of Minnesota. “We welcome, obviously, the decrease in cases, but realizing just as every other country that as soon as you let off the brake, then it comes.”





No.39 article:
Fight Over Gig Workers Persists Despite Win for Uber and Lyft

A successful ballot measure in California makes drivers and other workers contractors, but the companies face continued pushback.

Last week’s election produced a crisp result in at least one high-stakes contest: California voters approved a ballot measure that exempts companies like Uber and Lyft from having to treat workers as employees.

The measure freed the companies from a 2019 state law that entitled workers to protections like overtime pay, sick leave and unemployment benefits and could have upended the gig-economy business model. As a result, Uber, Lyft and other similar businesses appeared to be on the ascent. The two companies’ stock market value increased by roughly $20 billion in the week after the election, and executives indicated that they would seek to replicate their political gains elsewhere.

“Going forward, you’ll see us more loudly advocate for new laws like Prop. 22,” Uber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, said on a call with financial analysts last week, referring to the successful ballot measure, which also granted workers health care subsidies and a minimum pay rate.

But the question of gig workers’ labor status remains largely unresolved nationally — with a series of pitched battles likely to ensue between gig companies and labor in Washington and in state capitals, and even among unions that disagree over the importance of employee status.

Those battles may well begin in California. In the days since the election, several worker groups have scrutinized the ballot measure, which is likely to take effect in December, for weaknesses that they could use to challenge it in court.

“A lot of smart lawyers are looking at it,” said Brian Chen, a lawyer at the National Employment Law Project, which advocates on behalf of gig workers and other low-wage workers.

Mr. Chen’s group has been discussing the measure’s constitutionality with other progressive groups, some of whom may bring a court challenge. He cited its requirement that any future change must pass the Legislature with a seven-eighths majority as legally dubious because it may overly restrict the state’s ability to regulate collective bargaining, though other ballot measures have included similar restrictions.

In addition, Uber and Lyft continue to face a lawsuit brought in May by the state attorney general and three city attorneys contending that the companies illegally classified drivers as contractors, and two similar lawsuits brought against Uber and Lyft by the state’s labor commissioner in August.

Representatives for agencies involved in the cases said that the ballot measure doesn’t eliminate the companies’ liability for how they treated workers before it takes effect. Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez, the author of the state law that the companies are accused of violating, echoed that view.

“I do believe they are on the hook for years of past wage theft to the drivers,” Ms. Gonzalez said. “Sure, Prop. 22 was enacted, but before that, they were breaking the law.”

All of this has tempered the celebration over an otherwise clear win among the gig companies, according to one company official involved in the ballot measure who was not authorized to speak on the record.

John Zimmer, the president and co-founder of Lyft, said in an interview that he hoped to resume negotiations with labor unions. Last year, his company and Uber had discussions with unions about a deal that would give gig workers benefits like paid time off and bargaining rights but would stop short of full employment benefits, traditional unemployment insurance and overtime pay likely among them.

“We believe we should communicate with labor leaders and policymakers and stop the sparring back and forth,” he said. “Nobody wins in that situation.”

In other states where labor groups have significant sway, workers and unions have said they intend to continue pressing for significant concessions from the companies.

Regulators or courts in New York, Illinois and New Jersey have found that at least some drivers must be considered employees for the purposes of eligibility for unemployment insurance. The attorney general of Massachusetts sued the companies this summer for misclassifying drivers under a state law that is similar to the law that Uber and Lyft fought in California.

Uber and Lyft have held discussions with labor groups in New York, where Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has suggested a compromise in which gig companies that granted bargaining rights to drivers could be exempted from classifying them as employees. But the pandemic stalled those discussions for several months. Since then, New York drivers have won a federal court ruling requiring the state to pay them the unemployment benefits accorded to employees.

“Tens of thousands of drivers in New York State, who as independent contractors were getting hundreds of dollars less, as employees are entitled to up to $504 a week,” said Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, which helped bring the lawsuit. “The state would have to roll back a right that people have already enjoyed.”

The victory of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. also appears to have given labor additional leverage. The National Labor Relations Board under President Trump has deemed gig workers to be contractors, which denied them a federally protected right to organize. The Labor Department has taken a similar approach, suggesting in an opinion letter that some gig workers were not protected under federal minimum wage and overtime laws. In September, the department proposed a regulation that would codify and expand that finding.

But under Mr. Biden, who has longstanding ties to labor unions and who opposed Prop. 22, the labor board and the Labor Department are likely to back away from these positions. The president-elect has also come out in favor of the Pro Act, a proposal that would make it harder for companies to misclassify workers as contractors and effectively make gig workers employees under federal labor law.

The situation in Washington is not entirely clear cut, however. Some advisers to Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris also have ties to the gig companies or have written favorably about a compromise. Ms. Harris’s brother-in-law is Uber’s chief legal officer. Some labor activists worry that the Biden administration could be amenable to a deal with gig companies.

“We are trying to lead the way in California but it is necessary to deal with misclassification on a national level,” said Ms. Gonzalez, the assemblywoman. “I am hopeful that Joe Biden will do what his platform said and address these issues.”

The ultimate outcome in this fight could hinge on a sometimes-bitter debate on the left: Is it essential for gig workers to enjoy the status of employees, and the benefits and protections that guarantees? Or can gig workers win a living wage and favorable working conditions if they aren’t employees but have collective bargaining rights that allow them to demand these things from the gig companies?

Brendan Sexton, the executive director of the Independent Drivers Guild, an organization affiliated with the International Association of Machinists that has received funding from Uber and Lyft, has argued in testimony before the New York Legislature that “collective bargaining rights is the only way to stop the exploitation.”

Prominent labor experts have echoed this point, and it appears to have gained traction among unions in California, where a split within labor torpedoed a possible deal on gig work last year.

At the time, the state’s powerful building trades union opposed a compromise that California affiliates of the Teamsters and Service Employees International Union had discussed with the companies. Earlier this week, however, the president of the state building trades council, Robbie Hunter, confirmed through a spokeswoman that he is open to such a compromise if the Teamsters sign on.

But other activists and union officials remain deeply skeptical of settling for anything less than full employment rights, including Sean McGarvey, the president of the North America’s Building Trades Unions. Mr. McGarvey called gig work “a breeding ground for the underground economy” in an email.

Cherri Murphy, a Lyft driver and organizer with Gig Workers Rising, a group that opposed Prop. 22, said, “Drivers in California are riled up to ensure we get our fundamental rights met in a Prop. 22 world and that we keep fighting for protections equal to those granted to other workers.”

Some labor leaders and activists argue that in a world with bargaining rights but not employee status, workers would spend all their time negotiating to win the basic protections that the law already grants employees. The point of a union, they say, is to win additional benefits.

“A labor organization in this context is not going to get you to where a union normally gets workers,” Ms. Desai said. “If the new role of a labor organization is to get workers to just minimum wage, then, you know, what good are they?”





No.40 article:
19% Positivity Rate as Virus Soars in Newark, New Jersey’s Largest City

After nearly one in five residents who were tested over three days last week were found to have the coronavirus, Newark announced a set of strict new rules.

NEWARK — As the coronavirus started surging in New Jersey’s largest city, officials introduced the state’s first new coronavirus lockdown two weeks ago, mandating an 8 p.m. indoor closing time for all restaurants, bars and nonessential businesses citywide.

But then the number of new cases in the city, Newark, climbed even higher: Over the last four days, there have been 842 new reported infections, and 19 percent of people tested over three days last week were found to have the virus, city and county officials said.

The uptick mirrors a troubling statewide trend that has resulted in a spike in Covid-19 hospitalizations across New Jersey to levels not seen since June.

On Tuesday, New Jersey reported 3,877 new cases, a figure the governor called “devastating.” By the next day, 3,078 new cases were recorded. Hospitals also reported 15 coronavirus deaths, adding to the more than 16,400 New Jersey fatalities already linked to the virus.

Newark, a commuter hub, is about a 15-mile drive from New York City, where officials are struggling to contain an outbreak on Staten Island and bracing for a second wave of cases citywide.

New York’s governor has announced that bars, restaurants and gyms across the state must close nightly at 10 p.m. starting Friday, and that private residential gatherings should not exceed 10 people.

Of the Northeast states, only Rhode Island and Connecticut have higher rates of infection per 100,000 residents than New Jersey, according to a New York Times database.

The rates in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania are not far behind, however, as the region, which had been an early epicenter of the pandemic, struggles to regain control of a virus that had largely been tamped down just a few months ago.

Alarmed by the new data, Newark turned to a new tactic on Tuesday.

The mayor, Ras J. Baraka, implemented a sweeping set of rules designed to avoid a repeat of the springtime outbreak of the coronavirus, which has been linked to at least 680 deaths in the city of 282,000 — the hardest-hit municipality in the state’s hardest-hit county, Essex.

Mr. Baraka, a Democrat, ordered a 9 p.m. weekday curfew for residents of three ZIP codes and the cancellation of all team sports activities citywide, effective immediately. Newark’s nursing homes were barred from accepting visitors for two weeks. And gatherings throughout the city — indoors and outdoors — were capped at 10 people until at least Dec. 1.

Aides said Mr. Baraka would not hesitate to shut down businesses, issue fines and suspend liquor licenses.

The tough talk has created an inherent tension between Gov. Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat, and Mr. Baraka, one of his closest political allies.

Mr. Murphy had taken pains to say that he had no desire to renew a statewide lockdown as he announced limited measures that kick in on Thursday: 10 p.m. indoor closing times at nightclubs and restaurants; no seating at bars; and a ban on out-of-state youth sports tournaments.

But when asked about Newark’s rules, Mr. Murphy’s top lawyer, Parimal Garg, said that state law superseded actions taken by municipalities. Mr. Murphy’s aides declined to comment on Tuesday or Wednesday about the confusion.

“Newark’s prescription is not the state’s prescription,” Mr. Baraka said in a statement on Tuesday. “Stricter measures are required in the city’s hot spots in order to contain the virus and limit the spread. I know we are all tired, but the virus is not.”

On Tuesday night in Newark, less than an hour before the curfew took hold, Daysi Moreno, a hairdresser, rushed to pull down the gates to the store she owns on Bloomfield Avenue, a bustling business corridor in the city’s North Ward.

Six blocks away, in Branch Brook Park, a club softball team for girls was practicing, preparing to leave in the coming days for a tournament in Clearwater, Fla.

“We kept waiting for the lights to shut off, but they didn’t — so we kept practicing,” said Jessie Dreswick, 24, one of the coaches for the team, the New Jersey Pride. “I’m just happy we’re still playing.”

Based on the guidance from the city and state, the team should not have been on the field or preparing to travel out of state. But the competing shutdown orders were adding to a sense of trepidation in New Jersey.

“There is confusion,” said Perry N. Halkitis, a dean of biostatistics and urban-global public health at the School of Public Health at Rutgers University. “Mixed messaging.”

But he said the governor’s overarching approach, and the emphasis on quelling indoor drinking during late-night hours, when inhibitions drop, was appropriate. He said he was equally concerned about private indoor gatherings that are harder to monitor.

“People feel like it’s their God-given right to be with their families on Thanksgiving,” said Dr. Halkitis, who lives and works in Newark.

“You really love your family?” he added. “For Thanksgiving, you should not be with them.”

The governor has repeatedly said that private indoor gatherings are a main source of spread. Halloween parties were linked to five outbreaks across the state, involving a total of 70 people, state health officials said on Wednesday.

Edward Lifshitz, medical director for the Communicable Disease Service at New Jersey’s Department of Health, said that it was often hard to pinpoint a precise source of infection, given the limits of contact tracing and people’s travel habits.

What is clear is that the virus is now spreading rapidly through the community, and that indoor gatherings remain less safe than outdoor events, he said. Elementary and middle schools have not been shown to be a major source of spread, Dr. Lifshitz said; K-12 schools are linked to 146 cases since the start of September.

The seven-day average rate of positive virus tests in New Jersey was 7.95 percent.

“We need to separate as much as possible,” Dr. Lifshitz said. “It’s hard wearing that mask every day. It’s hard not being able to see your friends and family. But none of them are as hard as dealing with the loss of a family member or a friend.”

In Newark, Ms. Moreno, 47, said she had cut the number of staffers at Latinos Beauty Salon to six people, down from 10, after salons in the city were told late last month they could remain open for appointments only.

She said she would prefer a total lockdown for the month of January, to give the state a chance to recover for good. “Business is very slow now,” she said. “Appointment-only is hard for people figuring out when they come off work.”

Residents of three Newark ZIP codes — 07104, 07105 and 07107 — are being asked to remain off the street after 9 p.m. on weekdays and 10 p.m. on weekends, until 5 a.m., unless traveling to or from work, or in the case of an emergency.

The weather during the first night of the curfew was balmy, but the streets were like ghost towns.

Still, the ovens at Calandra’s Bakery on First Avenue, in a section of Newark now subject to the mandatory curfew, remained on, operating 24 hours a day to supply supermarkets from New York City to Pennsylvania with handmade bread.

A Calandra’s manager, Carlos Ribeiro, 55, said his hands were chapped from constant washing.

“If I touch something, I wash. I support masks 200 percent!” Mr. Ribeiro said. “Everybody worries. We are concerned. It’s why we are more and more on top of the employees: ‘Wash your hands, keep your distance.’

“We all need to help each other.”





No.41 article:
What Happened in Each Key Senate Race

The Democrats had expected to flip several seats, but came up short. Their hopes to control the chamber now rest on a pair of races in Georgia.

In the days since Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the winner in the presidential contest, the vote counting and reporting in states across the country have continued and are helping to clarify what the Senate will look like in 2021.

Democrats did not get the sort of blue wave they had hoped for, and their paths to flipping the Senate have significantly dwindled. In an election cycle in which President Trump ran much closer to Mr. Biden than many of the polls had predicted, Republicans managed to hold on to all but two of the roughly dozen seats that were thought to be competitive — and they flipped one seat held by a Democrat.

Now, two Senate races in Georgia are headed to a runoff — and the pair of contests will determine the fate of the chamber. Democrats’ only path to a Senate majority will require winning both of Georgia’s seats; if Republicans win even one of the two races, they will maintain control.

Here is a quick summary of what has happened in Senate races across the country.

Entering Election Day, Republicans held a three-seat advantage over Democrats in the Senate. That meant that in order for Democrats to take control of the chamber in 2021, they needed to flip at least three seats — and most likely four — assuming they also won the White House.

If Democrats were to pick up three seats, then Kamala Harris, as vice president, would be able to break a 50-50 tie in the Senate. But Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, was widely expected to lose his race in the deep red state, so realistically, most Democrats expected they would have to flip a fourth Republican seat.

In that scenario, Democrats also had to defend the other 11 seats held by Democratic incumbents that were up for grabs this cycle, including one in the battleground state of Michigan.

The Democrats flipped two seats, in Arizona and Colorado, and the Republicans flipped one, Mr. Jones’s. That leaves Democrats with a net gain of just one seat — far short of what they needed.

As of Wednesday, Republicans have secured 50 seats in the next Senate, and Democrats, combined with the two independent senators who caucus with them, have secured 48.

The two races in Georgia are both headed to a Jan. 5 runoff because none of the candidates received 50 percent of the vote, the threshold under Georgia law to win outright. If a Republican wins either of the races in the traditionally conservative state, the party will maintain control of the Senate.

The Democrats held onto the other 11 seats they were defending, including in Michigan, where the Democratic incumbent, Gary Peters, narrowly prevailed.

Here is a state-by-state look at how the Senate races played out.

Mr. Jones earned his Senate seat in a deeply red state after winning a special election in 2017 against Roy S. Moore, a Republican accused of sexual misconduct.

As expected, Mr. Jones lost by a wide margin to Tommy Tuberville, a Republican and former college football coach who has aligned himself with Mr. Trump.

As the polls had predicted, Mark Kelly, a former astronaut and retired Navy captain, defeated Senator Martha McSally, the Republican incumbent in Arizona. Mr. Kelly built a national profile as a gun safety advocate after his wife, former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, was seriously injured during a mass shooting in 2011. He ran as a pragmatic outsider and leaned hard into his biography on the campaign trail.

It was a second loss for Ms. McSally, who failed in her first run for Senate in 2018 but was then appointed by Gov. Doug Ducey to the seat left vacant by the death of Senator John McCain.

The polls were similarly accurate in predicting that former Gov. John Hickenlooper would defeat Senator Cory Gardner in Colorado. Mr. Hickenlooper, who had made an unsuccessful run for the Democratic nomination for president in 2019, handily defeated Mr. Gardner by roughly nine percentage points in a state that is increasingly tilting to the left and that went for Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump.

Though Iowa, Montana and South Carolina are all traditionally right-leaning, polls had shown tight Senate races in those states, and the Cook Political Report had rated each a tossup. But come Election Day, Republicans easily won each race.

In Iowa, Senator Joni Ernst, the Republican incumbent, dispatched Theresa Greenfield, her Democratic challenger, by 6.6 percentage points. In Montana, Senator Steve Daines, the Republican incumbent, won by more than 10 percentage points against Steve Bullock, Montana’s two-term Democratic governor.

And in South Carolina, Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, survived a challenge by Jaime Harrison, a former chairman of the state’s Democratic Party, winning by 10.3 percentage points.

Perhaps no Senate race result proved as befuddling to Democrats as the one in Maine, where Senator Susan Collins, the Republican incumbent, brushed aside her Democratic challenger, Sara Gideon.

The race was one of the most difficult in Ms. Collins’s career. She faced extraordinary sums of Democratic money and anger over her decision to confirm Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, and polls had her trailing Ms. Gideon, a formidable opponent who is the speaker of Maine’s House, for much of the race.

But it did not end up being all that close: As of Tuesday, Ms. Collins’s margin of victory over Ms. Gideon stood at nearly eight percentage points.

Democrats were also deeply disappointed by the outcome in the North Carolina Senate race, where Senator Thom Tillis, a first-term Republican, narrowly edged out his Democratic opponent, Cal Cunningham, a former state senator and an Army reserve officer, who conceded the race on Tuesday. 

Like Ms. Gideon in Maine, Mr. Cunningham had a lead in the polls heading into Election Day. The race concluded with two significant developments: Mr. Tillis contracted the coronavirus, and Mr. Cunningham became mired in a scandal over romantic messages he had sent to a woman who is not his wife. While it was not immediately clear what effect, if any, those developments had on voters, as of Wednesday, Mr. Trump also held a considerable lead in North Carolina, which may have helped buoy Mr. Tillis.

There were two Senate races held in Georgia, both of which are headed to runoffs in January.

One of the races involves Senator David Perdue, a first-term Republican, who was trying to hold off Jon Ossoff, the Democratic nominee. Mr. Perdue’s share of the vote dipped below 50 percent last week as more ballots were tallied, forcing a showdown in January.

In the other race, the Rev. Raphael Warnock, a Democrat, and Senator Kelly Loeffler, the Republican incumbent, finished first and second in a special election that featured 20 candidates. Neither amassed 50 percent of the vote, and so, like Mr. Perdue and Mr. Ossoff, they will now go head-to-head on Jan. 5.

The pair of contests will determine which party controls the Senate.




No.1 article:
UK deaths rise by 563 – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here is a recap of the main developments from the last few hours:

Refusing to allow coronavirus to steal his Christmas, one Bavarian innkeeper has opened a drive-through Christmas market, complete with artificial snow that falls as you come in, Reuters reports.

Some 2,500 Christmas markets are usually held in Germany in the lead-up to the holiday, drawing millions of visitors who sip mulled wine and buy trinkets among wooden huts. But most markets are likely to be cancelled this year due to the pandemic, including Nuremberg’s world-famous “Christkindlesmarkt.”

Five months after Patrick Schmidt condensed the Bavarian “Dult” folk festival experience into a drive-through delight during the first wave of the pandemic, he is now trying to recreate the Christmas market feeling while sticking to guidelines for social distancing.

“It was a spontaneous idea because of the second lockdown. I thought the Dult drive-in also worked so why not a Christmas market drive-in?” he beamed at the market’s opening on Thursday in Landshut, some 60km (37 mile) northeast of Munich. “We don’t just sell a crepe or a pack of roasted almonds, we sell an experience.”

Patrons said the market comes as a welcome boost as the country grinds through a month-long “lockdown light” under which bars, restaurants, theatres and museums have been closed.

“I heard Christmas carols for the first time and I’m slowly getting into the mood,” said Anton Kolbinger, holding cotton candy. “But to get into a real Christmas mood will still take some time.”

Schmidt said he already knows what he wants for Christmas: 

My biggest Christmas wish is that the coronavirus is finally brought under control and that next year is half-way normal again. That’s what I hope for.

People from Black and Asian backgrounds are at substantially greater risk of contracting Covid-19 than white people, according to a study that highlights the disproportionate impact of the disease on different groups in society.

Black people are twice as likely to become infected with coronavirus as white people, and people from Asian backgrounds are one and a half times as likely, researchers found after analysing 50 studies that reported on the medical records of nearly 19 million Covid patients.

The analysis, published in the journal EClinicalMedicine by the Lancet, is the first comprehensive, systematic review of published research and preliminary papers that delve into the burden of coronavirus on different ethnic groups. About half of the papers have appeared in peer-reviewed journals and the rest are preliminary findings.

Beyond the raised risk of infection, the review suggests people from Asian backgrounds are more likely to be admitted to intensive care and may have a greater risk of death with coronavirus than white people. But the researchers cautioned that none of the studies on intensive care admissions had been peer-reviewed and that the increased risk of death was only borderline statistically significant.

The Guardian’s science editor, Ian Sample, has the story:

Nearly 67,000 deaths involving Covid-19 have now occurred in the UK, the latest figures from the UK’s statistics agencies show. These are separate from the figures gathered by the UK government, which only take into account deaths from Covid-19 where a person has died within 28 days of a positive test (see 8.05pm.).

According to the most recent reports from the Office for National Statistics, the National Records of Scotland, and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency, a total of 63,317 deaths have so far been registered in the UK where Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificate. 

But since those figures were compiled, a further 3,195 deaths are known to have occurred in England, plus 33 in Scotland, 220 in Wales and 110 in Northern Ireland, according to additional data published on the UK government’s coronavirus dashboard. 

Together, these totals mean that so far there have been 66,875 deaths involving Covid-19 in the UK.

Father Christmas wears a mask and can travel the world thanks to a special permit, Italy’s prime minister said on Thursday, in a bid to ease children’s fears that Santa may also be under lockdown this year.

Giuseppe Conte wrote on Facebook:

Father Christmas assured me that he already has an international travel certificate: he can travel everywhere and distribute gifts to all the world’s children.

He was responding to a desperate letter by five-year-old Tommaso who had pleaded with him not to confine Babbo Natale, as Santa is known in Italy. Conte said:

He confirmed to me that he always uses a mask and maintains a correct distance to protect himself and everyone he meets.

He then suggested to the boy that he put a bottle of hand sanitising gel under the tree, along with warm milk and biscuits. The Italian PM continued:

I’m letting you know that it won’t be necessary to tell Father Christmas that you were good in your letter, because I already told him.

I also found out that you wanted to ask Father Christmas to chase away the coronavirus. Don’t forget to ask for another present.

Italy, the first European country hit by coronavirus earlier this year, has recorded a surge in cases in recent weeks and has topped one million infections in total.

Several types of restrictions have been imposed nationwide and at a local level, depending on the health situation in different regions. But a growing number of medical workers and politicians are calling for stricter measures, and even a second nationwide lockdown.

Whatever the evolution of the pandemic in the coming weeks, the regional affairs minister Francesco Boccia said on Thursday that Christmas would only be celebrated among close family members.

The Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy addressed the nation in two videos on Thursday, his first appearance since being hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 this week.

Sitting in a chair in front of a Ukrainian flag, Zelenskiy said he felt good and the government was working as normal. He also spoke about his administration’s standoff with the Constitutional Court over anti-corruption reforms.

The president, 42, was moved to hospital to self-isolate and not put others at risk, his office said.

Three other top officials, including the finance minister, the defence minister and Zelenskiy’s top aide were also reported to be infected.

“As you know, Covid-19 has not avoided me, but I feel good,” Zelenskiy said.

Ukrainian new coronavirus infections began rising in late September and have remained consistently high in October and November, prompting the government to extend some restrictions until the end of the year.

On Wednesday, Zelenskiy’s cabinet voted to impose a national lockdown at weekends to strengthen steps to curb the rapid spread of infection.

Ukraine has registered a total of 500,865 coronavirus cases and 9,145 deaths as of Thursday.

Portugal has announced an expansion of a nightly curfew and weekend lockdown already in place across more than 100 municipalities to a further 77 areas as it scrambles to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.

“The situation is serious and more critical than what we experienced in the first wave of the pandemic,” the prime minister Antonio Costa told a news conference.

Residents of affected areas are asked to not leave the house except for work, school or shopping during the week, and must stay home between 11pm and 5am.

At weekends, a lockdown is in place from 1pm to 5am, during which all commercial outlets and restaurants must shut, although there are exceptions for bakeries, pharmacies and neighbourhood grocery shops.

Restaurants will be able to apply for compensation of 20% of their average revenues to make up for income lost over the next two weekends, Costa announced, after workers in areas where the weekend lockdown was already in place protested that it was killing the sector.

AHRESP, an association representing the hotel and restaurant sector, said 49,000 businesses had been wiped out between July and September.

Any municipality with more than 240 new cases per 100,000 people in the space of two weeks must follow the new rules. Seven were removed in the past week as their infection rate fell below the threshold.

A nationwide state of emergency that came into force on Monday and is due to last until 23 November could also be extended if necessary.

Portugal, with just over 10 million people, has recorded a comparatively low 191,011 cases and 3,181 deaths. However, last Saturday the number of daily infections hit 6,640, the highest figure since the pandemic started, albeit with an expanded testing programme.

Costa said:

The least we owe healthcare professionals is to make an additional effort. The rule is simple: We have to stay at home.

The UK government said a further 563 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Thursday. That brings the official tally to 50,928. Though lower than the 595 deaths reported on Wednesday - the highest daily figure recorded since early May - it is still well above 500 and the seven-day average for deaths is running at 375, compared to 295 a week ago.

Taking into account all deaths where Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificate, the UK’s death toll is actually now almost 67,000. 

It comes as the UK recorded 33,470 further coronavirus cases - a new daily record, and more than 10,000 greater than the total for Wednesday. The figure is also more than 6,000 above the previous highest daily total. The seven-day average for new cases is now running at 22,524, compared to 22,398 a week ago.

The government’s coronavirus dashboard is here.

The Chicago mayor, Lori Lightfoot, said on Thursday that the third largest city in the US could have 1,000 more Covid-19 deaths by the end of 2020 if residents did not change behaviours and do more to stop the spread of the virus.

Lightfoot issued a 30-day advisory that will begin on Monday, calling upon residents to stay at home and not to have visitors, even for Thanksgiving. If residents travel out of the state, they must quarantine for 14 days or submit a negative virus test, she said during a news conference.

Northern Ireland’s power-sharing government has agreed to extend Covid-19 restrictions for between one and two weeks, falling short of stricter measures demanded by Irish nationalist parties, Reuters reports.

In mid-October, Northern Ireland became the first part of the United Kingdom to reimpose strict Covid-19 constraints, closing schools for two weeks and bars and restaurants for four, but the measures were due to lapse on Friday.

The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) has been pushing for a swift end to the restrictions to help small-business owners, but the rival Ulster Unionists and Irish nationalist parties Sinn Féin and the SDLP said high infection rates meant restrictions should be maintained.

Under a compromise between the DUP, the UUP and the non-sectarian Alliance party, the five-party power-sharing executive agreed the reopening of cafes and close-contact services such as hairdressers will be delayed by a week and the reopening of bars and restaurants serving alcohol will be delayed by two weeks.

Sinn Féin voted against the measures, while the SDLP abstained.

“The advice was that we needed a further two-week restriction [on cafes and close-contact services] and that’s what we would have wanted to see,” Sinn Fein’s Northern Ireland leader, Michelle O’Neill, told UTV television.

Northern Ireland has reported 825 deaths within 28 days of a positive test, including 15 reported on Thursday. It has had just over 200 cases per 100,000 people over the past seven days, around three times the rate in the Republic of Ireland, which has fallen sharply since strict measures were introduced.

Good evening from London. I’m Lucy Campbell, I’ll be bringing you all the latest global developments on the coronavirus pandemic for the next few hours. As always, please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share. Your thoughts are always welcome!

Email: lucy.campbell@theguardian.comTwitter: @lucy_campbell_

I’m handing over the blog to my colleague Lucy Campbell now. I’ll leave you with a summary of the latest developments:

Greece reported 3,316 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, its highest daily tally since its first infection surfaced in February, according to health authorities data.

The latest jump in infections brings the total number of cases in the country to 66,637.

It also registered 50 deaths, bringing the number of victims since the onset of the virus to 959.

A resurgence in cases since early October has forced Greece to reimpose a nationwide lockdown until the end of the month.

Donald Trump’s adviser Corey Lewandowski has become the latest member of the outgoing president’s staff to test positive for coronavirus.

Lewandowski recently traveled to Pennsylvania to assist Trump’s efforts to contest the state’s election results. He said today he believes he was infected in Philadelphia and is not experiencing any symptoms.

Lewandowski appeared with Rudy Giuliani at an event on Saturday outside a landscaping company and lobbed unfounded accusations of voter fraud as the race was called for Trump’s challenger, now-President-elect Joe Biden.

Lewandowski was also at the election night party at the White House last week linked to several virus cases.

Numerous White House and campaign officials have tested positive in this latest wave of infections, including Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows.

The French prime minister, Jean Castex, said there would be no easing of a second Covid-19 lockdown in France for at least two weeks, with the number of people in hospital infected by the coronavirus now higher than at the peak of the first wave.

Castex said that one in four deaths in the country were due to the virus and that while the R number was now below 1, it was too early to contemplate relaxing measures. He told a news conference: 

It would be irresponsible to soften the lockdown now. The gains (we are seeing) are fragile.

The prime minister said that if the slowdown in the rate of new cases was maintained, France would pass the peak of the second wave early next week. But he said he would not hesitate to impose stricter measures if the spread of infections quickened once more.

The virus has killed more than 42,000 people in France. Health authorities reported 35,879 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 1.86 million, overtaking Russia and making France the worst-affected country in the European region. “The pressure on our hospitals has intensified enormously,” the French prime minister said.

Authorities could ease restrictions for Christmas holidays if conditions allow, Castex said. 

Top Democrats in the US Congress today urged renewed negotiations over a multitrillion-dollar coronavirus aid proposal, but the top Republican immediately rejected their approach as too expensive, continuing a months-long impasse.

The House of Representatives speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, ticked off a litany of grim data about the spread of the coronavirus in the US, with eight straight days of over 100,000 new coronavirus cases being reported each day.

“It’s like the house is burning down and they just refuse to throw water on it,” Pelosi said of Republicans.

She and Schumer told a news conference that President-elect Joe Biden’s victory strengthened the Democratic position, which is to spend at least $2.2tn on another round of coronavirus aid, on top of $3tn Congress has approved since the pandemic began. The Republican president, Donald Trump, has not conceded to Biden.

“We’re willing to sit down and talk; they haven’t wanted to talk,” Schumer said, referring to the post-election session of Congress that lasts until the end of the year.

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, speaking to reporters in a hallway a few minutes later, said he preferred previous Republican proposals in the range of $500bn.

“I gather she [Pelosi] and the Democratic leader in the Senate still are looking at something dramatically larger. That’s not a place I think we’re willing to go,” McConnell said.

“But I do think there needs to be another package,” the Republican said. “Hopefully we can get past the impasse.”

In May, the Democratic-majority House approved an additional $3.4tn in coronavirus aid, but it went nowhere in McConnell’s Senate, where Schumer’s Democrats blocked less expensive Republican proposals.





No.2 article:
California becomes second state in US to surpass 1m Covid-19 cases

State has seen nearly 7,000 cases in the past 24 hours amid a surge that was predicted to come with the flu season

California has crossed a bleak threshold in its battle against the coronavirus, as the state became the second in the US to surpass 1m cases of Covid-19 on Thursday.

Following a period in which new infections dipped and sectors began to cautiously reopen, the state of nearly 40 million residents has recently joined the rest of the country in a surge that was predicted to come with the flu season.

With 1,000,631 total cases as of Thursday, California has seen nearly 7,000 cases in the past 24 hours, with a seven-day test positivity rate of 5%. Hospitalizations have increased by nearly a third in the past 14 days, with intensive care hospitalizations going up by 29.6%. The state is averaging 44 deaths a day; in total more than 18,000 people have died from the virus.

Just one month ago, the state was reporting daily numbers below 3,000 and a positivity rate of 2.5%.

“Obviously, it’s sobering, these numbers,” said Gavin Newsom, California’s governor.

Texas passed 1m confirmed cases of the coronavirus earlier this week.

Contact tracers and county public health officials have zeroed in on private household gatherings as a major source of spread, said Dr Mark Ghaly, California’s secretary of health and human services.

Officials have also pointed to essential workplaces, restaurants and the cold weather – which has prompted people to move their socializing indoors – as factors behind the surge. “We’re seeing people take down their guard, take down their masks, and begin to mix outside their households,” Newsom said. He added that the latest uptick could be related to Halloween. 

The rise in cases forced the state this week to restrict the reopening of 11 counties, including San Diego and Sacramento. Previously in these counties, some non-essential businesses could be open with modifications, but now most will be closed again.

Counties including Santa Cruz and Contra Costa are also reintroducing some restrictions, though not as severe as those in San Diego and Sacramento. 

It was the first week since health officials introduced their blueprint for reopening, which involves tiered levels of restrictions through which counties can move, that no county graduated into a less restrictive level, said Dr Erica Pan, acting public health officer.

“We anticipate that if things stay the way they are, between this week and next week, over half of California counties will have moved into a more restrictive tier,” Ghaly said.

Local jurisdictions began taking steps to combat the increase in cases as well. While San Francisco remains in the least restrictive tier of reopening, London Breed, the city’s mayor, announced this week that the city would temporarily roll back reopening indoor dining, pause reopening indoor instruction at high schools that have not already opened, and reduce the capacity of fitness centers and movie theaters. San Francisco has experienced a 250% increase in Covid cases since 2 October, she said.

“I know this is not the news our residents and businesses wanted to hear, but as I’ve said all along, we’re making decisions based on the data we’re seeing on the ground,” Breed said in a statement. “Right now, our public health officials are telling us we need to take these steps to get the virus under control and save lives – so that’s what we’re doing.”

The US recorded more than a million new cases of the virus in the first 10 days of November. With 143,231 new cases and 2,005 deaths on Wednesday, marking the ninth consecutive day of cases topping 100,000 and a new record for daily cases, November is on track to be the worst month of the pandemic so far in the country.

The US has had more than 10.5m reported cases since the pandemic began. In total, 241,910 people have died.





No.3 article:
More than 110 migrants die in Mediterranean in three days

Bodies of 74 people wash up on beach in western Libya as baby boy dies on rescue boat

Four shipwrecks in the space of three days have claimed the lives of more than 110 people in the Mediterranean, including at least 70 people whose bodies have washed up on the beach of al-Khums, in western Libya.

According to the UN migration agency (IOM), that boat was reported to be carrying more than 120 people, including women and children. Forty-seven survivors had been brought to shore by the coastguard and fishermen, while the bodies of at least 74 people were floating near the water’s edge on Thursday.

A few hours after the bodies were reported, Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders (MSF) helped three women who were the only survivors of another shipwreck, which killed 20 people off the coast of Sorman, in Libya.

“Rescued by local fishermen, they were in shock and terrified,” MSF wrote on Twitter. “They saw loved ones disappear beneath the waves, dying in front of their eyes.”

Taking advantage of good mid-autumn weather, people smugglers have sent hundreds of migrants to sea in the last week, according to charities. The majority of the journeys have ended in tragedy.

On Wednesday, six people died after the dinghy in which they were travelling with more than 100 migrants capsized off Libya’s coast. A six-month-old boy was among the victims.

The boy, who had survived the shipwreck, died onboard a rescue boat. Named Joseph and originally from Guinea, he was saved by rescuers from the Spanish non-governmental organisation Open Arms late on Wednesday morning after the dinghy reportedly began to deflate. At least five other asylum seekers died as a result of that incident.

“This is a massacre at Europe’s borders,” said a spokesperson for Alarm Phone, a hotline for migrant boats in distress. “What else can we say? We have called for radical changes for years and still the dying continues. It is devastating.’’

Open Arms wrote on Twitter: “Despite the enormous commitment of our medical team, a six-month-old baby has just died. We requested an urgent evacuation for him and other people in serious conditions, but he didn’t make it. How much pain and sorrow!” 

The dinghy had allegedly left Sabratha, Libya, but began to deflate after a few hours. After a patrol aircraft from the European agency Frontex raised the alarm, the Open Arms ship promptly intervened.

“When our rescuers arrived, they found themselves in front of a dramatic scene,” Riccardo Gatti, the president of Open Arms Italy, said. “The boat had practically imploded and hundreds of people found themselves in the water, in the open sea – some were children.”

Judging Joseph’s condition to be serious, the rescuers asked the Maltese and Italian authorities to evacuate him for medical treatment. However, when the Italian coastguard arrived, Joseph had already died.

“We did all we could to rescue those onboard,” said the medical team of the NGO Italian Emergency, operating onboard the Open Arms. “All this took place just a few kilometres away from an indifferent Europe. Instead of preparing a structured search and rescue system, they instead continue to bury their heads in the sand, pretending not to see the cemetery that the Mediterranean Sea has become.”

On Tuesday, another child, whose age is unknown, was among 13 people who died in a separate shipwreck off Libya’s coast. Eleven survivors were taken back to Libya.

‘‘Change is necessary now, more than ever, to guarantee effective rescue at sea and prevent new tragedies,’’ said Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesperson for IOM.

In 2020 alone, “over 10,300 migrants have been intercepted at sea and sent back to dangerous Libya”, Di Giacomo said.

According to IOM figures, since the beginning of October, at least 30 migrants have died at sea while trying to reach Italy.

Since the beginning of 2020, about 575 people have died in the central Mediterranean, but the real number is estimated to be considerably higher, according to IOM.

Open Arms is currently the only NGO rescue boat operating in the central Mediterranean. Many other rescue boats are blocked in Italian ports because officials refuse to authorise their departure.

“Is the European Union watching?” MSF wrote on Twitter. “Step the search and rescue capacity up, or let us save lives.”





No.4 article:
Germany and France among countries regaining control – but figures rise in Italy and pressure grows on health services

Lockdowns and other restrictions are starting to stem the spread of Covid-19 in some, but not all, European countries, authorities have said, and the continent’s hospitals remain under heavy pressure that is unlikely to ease for some time yet.

In Germany, which began a “lockdown light” on 2 November, Lothar Wieler, the head of the country’s disease control agency, RKI, said on Thursday the infections curve was flattening, showing “we are not helpless against this virus”.

Measures such as social distancing and mask wearing were helping, Wieler said, after the country reported 21,866 new cases over the last 24 hours, fewer than the record 23,399 set on Saturday, with the reproduction or R number falling below 1 to 0.89.

“I am cautiously optimistic,” he said, because “the curve is rising somewhat less steeply, it is flattening”. But he added that scientists were not yet sure this was “a stable development” and it was too early to assess what effect the new measures were having.

Wieler said there were more Covid patients in intensive care than in April and the situation in hospitals could worsen over the coming weeks. “We must prevent the situation from deteriorating,” he said.

The health minister, Jens Spahn, stressed that Covid-19 “takes a long time to brake”, adding that even if numbers were brought down now, it would not mean people “can just start going everywhere again in December or January”.

France, which is a fortnight into a stricter lockdown, was also starting to regain control, the prime minister, Jean Castex, said, despite 60% of people surveyed in a poll published on Thursday admitting they had broken the rules at least once.

Castex said infection numbers were down by about 16% this week compared with their level at the end of October, and that France’s R number had fallen below 1 to between 0.8 and 0.9. “Our lockdown strategy ... seems to be producing the expected results, but we must remain cautious,” he said.

The prime minister said it would be “irresponsible to lift or relax the current measures in place … at the risk of having to return to lockdown in December”. France’s ICU wards were operating at 90% of their capacity before the crisis, he said.

The peak of the pandemic in French hospitals should arrive early next week, hopefully leading to a gradual relaxation of lockdown measures from the beginning of December, allowing families at least to spend Christmas and new year together – but without big parties, he said.

Smaller European countries were also faring better. Although Austria’s tally of new infections passed 9,000 for the first time on Thursday, putting the government under increasing pressure to impose tougher measures, Belgium reduced its daily tally of new cases to about 4,300, from 20,000 two weeks ago.

The country’s six-week lockdown, begun on 30 October, has so far succeeded in reducing hospitalisations and ICU admissions after they broke records set during the first wave of the pandemic, and Belgium’s R number now stands at 1.

The Netherlands, which last week was considering closing its high schools and imposing a curfew, has rowed back after seeing similar promising signs. The health minister, Hugo de Jonge, said on Wednesday the peak of the pandemic had passed, even if the number of people in hospital had risen slightly.

Ireland, which closed all bars, restaurants and non-essential shops and banned non-essential travel more than 5km from home, has cut its daily infections to 240 from more than 1,200 last month. “I think everyone is confident now that we will ease restrictions in December,” the deputy prime minister, Leo Varadkar, said.

Even in Spain, which has been among the hardest hit in Europe’s second wave, the proportion of hospital beds occupied by coronavirus patients in Madrid – where bars and restaurants remain open until midnight – has fallen from 42% last month to 36% this week, with the capital’s positive test rate declining from 20% to 8%.

The situation in other parts of the country was far worse but that did not prevent Fernando Simon, the head of the health ministry’s emergencies centre, declaring this week that he thought the country had passed the peak of its pandemic on 25 October.

While the Czech Republic, which returned to lockdown on 22 October, planned to reopen some primary classes next week after cutting its daily infections to 6,000 from more than 10,000 two weeks ago, Poland was expecting strict measures after recording 40% more excess deaths in October than the average of the four previous years.

And Italy on Thursday recorded 636 Covid deaths over the past 24 hours, the highest figure since April, with 37,978 new infections – 5,000 more than on Wednesday.





No.5 article:
Despite her massive mandate, Ardern&#x27;s agenda will be resolutely middle of the road

Labour’s smart politics will come at the expense of its fundamental values, and be driven by its desire to stay in power 

The prime minister of New Zealand has just begun a victory lap of the country, though Jacinda Ardern would prefer we think of it more as a “thank you” tour.

After a successful but gruelling six-week election campaign she is hitting the two-lane blacktop once again, deploying to the regions of New Zealand.

They are rural stops a Labour leader would not usually bother much with.

However, ours was not a usual election for a Labour leader.

The normally true-blue seats of the conservative National Party flipped en masse, drastically changing the makeup of the parliament and delivering Ardern a landslide victory.

The country delivered its emphatic endorsement of her response to Covid-19 in ticks at the ballot boxes.

Her gratitude to the usually conservative voters started immediately with her election night victory speech: “To those amongst you who may not have supported Labour before … I say thank you.

“I can promise you, we will be a party that governs for every New Zealander.”

And, by golly, does Ardern like the fit and feel of the mandate those New Zealanders delivered. Not only will the thank-you’s flow thick and fast until the next election in 2023, she will also reward her new converts with radical centrism.

There is every indication she will prioritise a policy agenda that does not upset the apple cart or challenge the status quo.

Gone is Ardern the former president of the International Union of Socialist Youth. Gone is Ardern the Labour leader who promised transformational leadership in 2017. Gone is the prospect of any significant reform that could be construed as “too left” by those converts.

Down the drain are the hopes of ideological Labour supporters too, who were still waiting for that “transformation”, although that will not matter. Most will still vote for her anyway and she is raiding the centre-right voters to make up the difference.

Laying out her government’s economic priorities in a speech to a business audience last week, Ardern held the room.

They laughed at her jokes, nodded at her plans for “jobs, jobs, jobs” and did not baulk or flinch once – unusual for a boardroom bunch with the Labour lot.

There was much promotion of the business-friendly loan and wage schemes of the government’s Covid-19 response, the trade agenda, and fast-tracking of infrastructure projects for the economic recovery.

In front of that audience, Ardern snuck in just one potential bum note: a tiny, tiny little nod to her government hustling to double workers’ sick leave from five to 10 days. Even that was caveated with promises about all the consultation they’ll do with business to get it across the line.

That employment policy should be bread and butter stuff for Labour, but it was almost as if she was too embarrassed to talk about it. It certainly didn’t warrant a mention in the press release which accompanied the written speech.

It was her second economic speech of the day. The first was delivered to Labour’s trade union crowd. You can bet there the emphasis was flipped, but who knows?

That speech was closed to media.

Another policy being pushed through before Christmas that she completely failed to mention was Labour’s planned tax changes.

That is a new income tax bracket for wealthier New Zealanders earning over $180,000 – just a smidgen more than current settings.

It really is about as conservative and cautious a tax policy as they come, especially from a leader who once championed a capital gains tax.

It was smart politics because Labour gets hammered on tax by the opposition but I refer you back to the dashed hopes of those Labour supporters.

Conversely, a policy not being pushed through by Christmas – or perhaps ever – is one to increase welfare payments.

The prime minister laughed off an open letter penned by a who’s who of charities, unions and social organisations calling for an urgent boost to benefits to help lift children out of poverty.

Despite ballooning living costs and rising unemployment post-Covid, income support is not a priority for this government.

In the last term, Ardern could blame Labour’s self-described “handbrake” coalition partner, the populist New Zealand First party, for stalling ideas or policies which did not have broad voter appeal.

Now Ardern is using her almost single-minded focus on Covid as the excuse not to progress policies which could spook the horses.

There are just two things the PM has staked her job on. She has pledged not to introduce a capital gains tax under her leadership, and she has said she would resign before introducing a wealth tax.

Again, smart politics but at the expense of Labour’s fundamental values.

And that about sums up Jacinda Ardern – the person and leader – and her policy priorities of 2020.

Like so many politicians, there is a willingness to compromise what you believe in to maintain that grip on power.

Nobody is going to begrudge her focus on the Covid response and recovery, but governments can walk and chew gum at the same time. Covid-19 should not be a scapegoat for political expediency.

Ardern has been delivered a once-in-a-generation mandate by voters, but her thank you roadshow will be delivered squarely from the middle of the road.

Tova O’Brien is political editor of Newshub









No.6 article:
BioNTech chief rejects Trump claim it delayed Covid vaccine news

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Exclusive: Ugur Şahin says he and Pfizer CEO received results night before announcement 

Exclusive: Ugur Şahin says he and Pfizer CEO received results night before announcement 

The scientist behind the BioNTech/Pfizer coronavirus vaccine has defended his company from Donald Trump’s accusation that it deliberately delayed news of its rapid progress until after the election, saying “we don’t play politics”.

BioNTech, a German company, and the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer announced on Monday that their jointly developed vaccine candidate had exceeded expectations in the crucial phase 3 vaccine trials, proving 90% effective in protecting people from coronavirus infections.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

The US president criticised the timing of their press release. Trump accused the companies of holding back the good news until after the American elections “because they didn’t have the courage to do it before”.

But BioNTech’s chief executive, Prof Uğur Şahin, told the Guardian in a wide-ranging interview he only was notified of the outcome of the interim trials on Sunday at 8pm in a call from the Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla, who himself had only been informed three minutes earlier by the independent monitoring board.

“We want to develop this vaccine as quickly as possible, and we have our own system of coordinates,” Şahin said in response to Trump’s accusation. “Every day counts, and we were desperately waiting for the day of the trial results. It couldn’t come early enough.”

“Pharmaceutical research should never be politicised. It’s a question of integrity. Withholding information would have been unethical. What’s important for us is that we are developing a vaccine and we don’t play politics.”

Others have criticised the two companies for not holding on to their information long enough. Bourla raised eyebrows when he sold $5.6m (£4.2m) in stock as company shares soared on Monday night. 

Pfizer says the shares were sold via an automated system after they hit a certain price, under a plan set up in August.





No.7 article:
EU proposes new rules to protect LGBTQ+ people amid &#x27;worrying trends&#x27;

Proposals follow creation of ‘LGBT-free zones’ in Poland and Hungary’s proposed ban on adoption

Brussels has put itself on a collision course with the Polish and Hungarian governments after proposing to criminalise hate speech against LGBTQ+ people under EU law and secure recognition of same-sex partnerships across the bloc’s borders.

Věra Jourová, a European commissioner, said the measures followed new “worrying trends”, with the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights reporting that 43% of LGBT people had declared feeling discriminated against in 2019, compared with 37% in 2012.

The proposals were announced as part of the commission’s first ever strategy to secure equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, non-binary, intersex and queer people.

Jourová cited attacks on Pride marches and the move by more than 100 Polish municipalities to declare themselves as “LGBT-free zones” as further evidence of increased discrimination. A so-called “LGBT ideology” was recently described as “more destructive than communist indoctrination” by Poland’s president, Andrzej Duda.

Jourová said the commission was also following events in Hungary, where a constitutional amendment was proposed this week by Viktor Orbán’s rightwing government to ensure that only heterosexual married couples can adopt children.

The Hungarian government’s legislative initiatives, announced without any consultation, were justified on the grounds that “new, modern ideologies in the western world raise doubt about the creation of the male and female sex, and endanger the right of children to have healthy development”.

Jourová, a former minister in the Czech Republic, said such claims belonged to “the authoritarian playbook and it does not have a place in the European Union”.

“Constitutional reforms should always be subject to a large inclusive and public debate, not only debate in political circles,” she said. “It needs to have enough time to … achieve the necessary checks and balances. The family law is a member state competence. We fully respect it. However, when applying national law, member states must also respect their international human rights obligations and apply EU law.”

Under its five-year strategy, the commission wants to extend the list of EU crimes to cover hate crime, including that motivated by homophobia, and to bring forward legislation on the mutual recognition of parenthood in cross-border situations.

As it stands, only 21 member states recognise some form of same-sex partnership and only 14 of those allow adoption by same-sex couples, leading to problems for those who move from one EU country to another.

“All of a sudden they will stop being your child once you cross the border,” Jourová said. “This is unacceptable … If one is a parent in one country, one is a parent in all countries … This is not ideology. This is not about being men or women. This is about love.”

An extension of the list of EU crimes and mutual recognition of parenthood will require unanimity of the 27 member states, which would appear unlikely given the attitudes of the current Polish and Hungarian governments.

The commissioner said, however, that Brussels would in the meantime be more vigilant in ensuring that EU funds were not provided to public authorities who failed to respect the equality of its citizens.

The EU’s executive branch enraged the government in Warsaw after withholding funding from six towns in Poland that had declared themselves “LGBT-free” but it was suggested that such sanctions could become more commonplace.

The European parliament and the German presidency of the EU commission, representing the member states, recently agreed on a mechanism to link budget payments to governments to continue respect for EU fundamental values such as freedom, democracy and equality.





No.8 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

A woman moves into a care home to be with her husband, and a chippy steps in when a school canteen has to close

From care homes to chip shops and cathedrals, here’s a roundup of heartwarming stories from around the UK.

Kenneth Meredith, 96, broke down in tears when his wife Betty revealed she was moving into his care home to be with him after weeks apart.

In a video clip shared by Meredith’s granddaughter online, the pair were reunited at Bourn View care home in Birmingham with a surprise meal complete with love-heart balloons and confetti.

The couple didn’t know when they would be able to see each other again because of Covid restrictions on care home visits, and staff said there wasn’t a dry eye in the room.

“Are you happy?” Betty asks her husband in another clip.

“I am much better now I see you,” he replies.

At least half a dozen Church of England cathedrals have offered their buildings as Covid-19 vaccination centres, saying their size and city centre location make them potentially useful venues for the anticipated mass public health programme.

Blackburn cathedral is in advanced talks with local health officials over converting its crypt into a vaccination centre for a period of 12 to 14 months.

Lichfield is also in discussions with health providers, and Southwark, Gloucester, Bury St Edmunds and Guildford cathedrals have offered their buildings.

Blackburn cathedral could become a vaccination centre from December, operating 12 hours a day, seven days a week. It has a large crypt with a separate entrance which will be used as the vaccination centre.

“They will turn it into a sort of field hospital,” said the cathedral’s dean, Peter Howell Jones. 

“We’ve always taken the view that we’re part of the community, that the Church of England is a church for the whole nation. So at a time of national crisis we need to roll up our sleeves and help.”

Adrian Dorber, the dean of Lichfield and chair of the Association of English Cathedrals, said: “This is one of the best things we can offer the nation at the moment. Local circumstances will vary and not every cathedral will be able to do this, but it’s lovely to do what we can at this time of great need.”

A local chip shop has stepped in to provide free meals for pupils after a school canteen was forced to close when a staff member tested positive for Covid-19 and others had to self-isolate.

Ruddington Fish Bar in Nottingham is providing 285 meals of fish, chips and mushy peas for children at St Peter’s C of E junior school on Fridays for two weeks.

The chip shop’s owner, Demetrios Lawton, whose eldest son attends the school, said: “It’s very difficult at the moment to find ways to get children motivated and excited, so we’re just trying to inject a little bit of positivity.

“We’re all in a very difficult situation and it’s not going to be a very good year for any business, but that doesn’t mean we can’t still help in our own little way.”

Scotland’s island communities are looking forward to meeting friends and family indoors for the first time in months from Friday, after a relaxation of the rules on home gatherings.

callout-coronavirus

Up to six people from two households will be able to meet in a home in Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles. Announcing the change on Tuesday, Nicola Sturgeon said this was because cases there were “very low and sporadic”, and “we recognise social isolation is exacerbated in island communities where there are not as many public places to meet”.

Roddie MacKay, leader of Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, the Western Isles council, welcomed the relaxed rules for his region.

“We have got remote rural villages where there is no infrastructure, cafes and restaurants, where people can go and meet their families,” he said. “Then you have issues with the winter weather here and it wouldn’t be realistic to expect people to meet outside.”





No.9 article:
Eight international peacekeepers killed in Sinai helicopter crash

Six Americans, one Czech and one French citizen killed and only survivor in critical state

A helicopter carrying members of a multinational peacekeeping force has crashed near Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt’s Sinai peninsula, killing six Americans, a Czech and a French citizen.

The US-led Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) said in a statement that all but one of the nine people onboard were killed when the aircraft went down “during a routine operation”.

Egypt has waged a years-long battle against Islamist militants in the Sinai. However, the MFO said there was “no information to indicate the crash was anything except an accident”, adding it would conduct an investigation.

The Israeli military said it had offered medical assistance to the peacekeepers involved in the crash, and that it had sent a search and rescue helicopter to evacuate the injured survivor – an American – to an Israeli hospital for medical treatment.

“We greatly appreciate the cooperation and support of Egypt and Israel in the recovery effort,” the MFO said.

After Egypt and Israel signed a peace agreement in 1979, the MFO was established as an independent body to ensure the neighbours complied with restrictions on military forces and equipment in areas near the frontier. It also ensures freedom of navigation through the Straits of Tiran.

The force, which is headquartered in Rome, consists of 1,154 troops from 13 countries covering an area of more than 3,860 sq miles (10,000 sq km) in the Sinai.

Washington was instrumental in the peace agreement, pays one-third of the MFO’s operating costs and contributes around 450 personnel – more than any other country.

In recent years, the US has considered whether it should continue its involvement, as Egyptian and Israeli diplomatic relations have strengthened. Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, Egypt’s general-turned-president, has sought Israel’s help in fighting an Islamist-led insurgency and the two countries maintain a blockade on Gaza.

The MFO did not release the names of the dead from Thursday’s crash, saying it wanted to wait until their families had been notified. It did not provide a precise location of where the helicopter crashed.

An Egyptian official, cited on condition of anonymity by the Associated Press news agency, said the helicopter crashed over Red Sea waters outside Egypt’s territorial borders.

The Czech Republic’s military said the cause of the crash was a technical malfunction, adding that the survivor was in a critical condition.





No.10 article:
The gold-leaf six-metre statue of the central Asian shepherd dog is the centrepiece of a busy roundabout in the country's capital, Ashgabat.





No.11 article:
Billionaire Trump donors contract Covid-19 after downplaying risks

Liz and Richard Uihlein, owners of the Uline packaging company, made the announcement in a message to employees

Two of Donald Trump’s billionaire donors have contracted Covid-19 months after downplaying the risk of the disease to their employees.

Richard and Liz Uihlein, conservative megadonors who own the Uline packaging company based in Wisconsin and are two of the Republican party’s most significant financial backers, told employees on Wednesday that they had contracted the disease after being “around people with Covid”.

Liz Uihlein, 75, said in the message to employees: “After these long months, I thought we’d never get it. Well, Trump got it,” she said.

The news was first reported by Patch.com, a local news website, and was confirmed by the Guardian.

It is not clear where the Uihleins might have been infected.

A spokesman for the family said the pair had not attended a White House election night party last week for the president’s financial donors. At least five individuals were infected at the event, including Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff. Brian Jack, the White House political director, and Healy Baumgardner, a former White House aide, have also reportedly tested positive following attendance at the party.

The spokesman said Liz Uihlein had been exposed to the virus “through a personal friend”.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The Guardian tried to reach the Uihleins at their home but a person who answered the phone at the residence ended the call after a reporter identified herself.

In a statement, the company said it would not be disclosing any information about personnel who tested positive for the disease.

“The health and safety of Uline employees continues to be our top priority. Uline has instituted numerous changes to normal operating policies to respond to COVID-19 with health and safety in mind,” the statement said. “As we are made aware of positive cases among Uline personnel, we continue to promptly notify others who may be exposed to the virus, so the proper protocols can be quickly put into place.”

But the company has been criticized in the past for not taking the pandemic seriously enough. In a brief interview in April, Liz Uihlein – who with her husband has been called the “powerful conservative couple you’ve never heard of” – said the pandemic had been “overhyped”.

“I don’t wish anybody ill will. You know I don’t wish that, but I think it hurts certain ages in certain places and largely in a lot of parts of the world. In the country it’s not as rampant as the press would have you make it,” she told the Guardian at the time.

Employees who spoke to the Guardian in April complained the company had adopted lax safety practices and had initially discouraged employees from working from home. Uline rejected those suggestions, saying the company had adopted precautions for employees.

Since then, cases in the political battleground state of Wisconsin, which flipped from Republican to Democratic in the 2020 election and helped president-elect Joe Biden clinch the White House, have soared.

Health officials in the state warned on Wednesday that the situation in Wisconsin was becoming “increasingly dire”, according to local reports. Wisconsin reported more than 7,000 new cases on Wednesday and 60 deaths.

The Uihleins have an estimated net worth of about $4bn. Liz Uihlein said in her message to employees that she would be returning to the office on 19 November, according to an article on Patch.com. Richard Uihlein is listed by the Center for Responsive Politics, the campaign watchdog group, as the fifth largest private donor to outside spending groups in the 2020 election cycle, having donated about $62m to conservative anti-tax and anti-labor groups like the Club for Growth.

• This article was amended on 16 November 2020. An earlier version referred to “Wisconsin, which flipped from Republican to Democrat ”. This has been changed to “Democratic”.





No.12 article:
We would like to hear about any quirky mannerisms that have resulted from the pandemic

Some psychologists have said lockdown could cause people to become more eccentric, displaying offbeat behaviours such as developing new mannerisms, adopting quirky routines or discovering unconventional new interests.

We would like to hear about any eccentric habits you have developed during lockdown.

You can get in touch by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.13 article:
Exclusive: BioNTech’s CEO Uğur Şahin says he is confident vaccine can ‘bash the virus over the head’

The scientist behind the first Covid-19 vaccine to clear interim clinical trials says he is confident his product can “bash the virus over the head” and put an end to the pandemic that has held the world hostage in 2020.

The German company BioNTech and the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer announced via a press release on Monday that their jointly developed vaccine candidate had outperformed expectations in the crucial phase 3 trials, proving 90% effective in stopping people from falling ill.

However, the lack of full data sets from the ongoing trials has left unanswered the question of whether the vaccine is also effective for those with asymptomatic infections.

In his first interview with a British newspaper, BioNTech’s chief executive, Uğur Şahin, told the Guardian he was optimistic. “If the question is whether we can stop this pandemic with this vaccine, then my answer is: yes, because I believe that even protection only from symptomatic infections will have a dramatic effect,” Şahin said in a Zoom call from his home in Mainz.

Until Monday’s trial results were revealed, the scientist said, he wasn’t sure whether his vaccine would trigger a strong enough reaction from the human immune system. “It was possible that the virus isn’t really targeted by the vaccine, finds its way into the cells and continues to make people ill. We now know that vaccines can beat this virus.”

While current trials of the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine will not formally prove that it prevents transmission of the virus, as opposed to merely stopping infected people from falling ill, the 55-year-old said the high efficacy results have led him to assume it can.

BioNTech, a company founded in 2008 by the German scientists and married couple Şahin and Özlem Türeci, as well as the Austrian oncologist Christoph Huber, developed its experimental vaccine with a method that uses mRNA.

While conventional vaccines take genetic information from a virus and cultivate it in a human cell, the mRNA method merely requires the virus’s genetic code, thus shortening the production process by almost three months.

Pfizer’s expertise with mass-market vaccines and quick action from regulatory authorities helped speed up the development process to 10 months rather than years, Şahin said. “There was practically no waiting time. Imagine you want to get from one end of London to the next and there are traffic jams everywhere. You would need half a day. For our project, the streets were empty.”

The most effective candidate to emerge from the company’s trials, Şahin said, attacked the coronavirus “in more ways than one”.

“The vaccine hinders Covid-19 from gaining access to our cells. But even if the virus manages to find a way in, then the T-cells bash it over the head and eliminate it. We have trained the immune system very well to perfect these two defensive moves. We now know that the virus can’t defend itself against these mechanisms.”

Some crucial questions regarding the vaccine’s efficacy will only be answerable in the coming weeks and months, Şahin said. Establishing for certain whether it can also stop asymptomatic infections could take up to a year.

Further insight into whether the vaccine offers different levels of protection to different age groups, he said, was expected in about three weeks. The interim trials have also not yet fully established whether the vaccine works differently on people from different ethnic groups.

Şahin said he hoped that those who received the vaccine, administered via two injections in the arm three weeks apart, would be immune from the coronavirus for at least a year.

“We only have indirect clues so far [regarding the duration of immunity]. Studies of Covid-19 patients have shown that those with a strong immune response still have that response after six months. I could imagine we could be safe for at least a year.” He said he couldn’t rule out that Covid-19 jabs would need to be “topped up” annually.

The timing of Monday’s announcement by BioNTech and Pfizer has drawn criticism, with the US president, Donald Trump, accusing the companies of holding back the good news until after the American elections “because they didn’t have the courage to do it before”.

Şahin said he was notified of the outcome of the interim trials at 8pm on Sunday in a call from the Pfizer chief executive, Albert Bourla, who himself had only been informed three minutes earlier by the independent monitoring board.

“That was the second of truth, when a great weight fell off our minds,” he said.

“Pharmaceutical research should never be politicised. It’s a question of integrity. Withholding information would have been unethical. What’s important for us is that we are developing a vaccine and we don’t play politics.”

BioNTech’s shares shot up in the wake of Monday’s announcement, with the total value of its stock now $21.9bn (£16.6bn). But Şahin said such sums were merely “numbers on pieces of paper” for now.

“There will come a point when we can have a think about what to do with our money,” he said. “Usually people who have created something new are interested in creating something new again. We have to work out for ourselves what that is, whether it is a foundation or a specific project.”

Asked whether he had any private passions or hobbies that he would indulge once the vaccine reached the market, Şahin said: “We are thoroughbred scientists. We love our work, and we love talking about it. Work is never stress for us, something we try to catch a break from.” He said there was “no way” he would replace the bicycle he has used for his daily commute for the last 15 years.

After Sunday night’s bombshell phone call, Şahin and Türeci, BioNTech’s chief medical officer, “celebrated a little”.

“My wife and I sat down, talked to each other and made cups of tea. The relief was a very good feeling.”

The couple, who met at university and have been married since 2002, are both children of Turkish migrants who moved to Germany in the late 1960s. But the scientist bristled at the suggestion that he or his partner could become role models for a generation of Germans with migrant backgrounds.

“I am not sure I really want that. I think we need a global vision that gives everyone an equal chance. Intelligence is equally distributed across all ethnicities, that’s what all the studies show. As a society we have to ask ourselves how we can give everyone a chance to contribute to society. I am an accidental example of someone with a migration background. I could have equally been German or Spanish.”

• This article was amended on 13 November 2020. An earlier version said the vaccine had been developed with “an experimental method known as mRNA”, when it meant to say the vaccine was experimental with a method that uses mRNA.





No.14 article:
Trudeau: UK&#x27;s lack of negotiating practice could delay Canada trade deal

Britain may lack ‘bandwidth to move forward’ as Brexit transition nears end, say PM

Canada could easily negotiate a post-Brexit trade deal with the UK, Justin Trudeau has said, but he warned that talks could be delayed because British negotiators are so out of practice.

Speaking at an online event hosted by the Financial Times, the Canadian prime minister said he remained upbeat about the prospect of a trade deal between the two countries before the end of the year.

“We know how to negotiate trade deals,” said Trudeau, alluding to a string of recent pacts sealed by Canada. “The UK hasn’t had to negotiate trade deals in the past few decades.”

Any barrier to an agreement was likely to come from the UK as its negotiators juggled talks with multiple nations, Trudeau warned. “There is an issue of not really having the bandwidth within the [UK] government to move forward on this,” he said.

As the Brexit transition comes to an end, Boris Johnson’s government has the difficult task of lining up deals with key non-EU nations, including Australia, New Zealand and the United States.

With the 31 December deadline rapidly approaching and a number of deals still outstanding, the shadow trade secretary, Emily Thornberry, recently condemned the Conservative government’s inability to show completed trade pacts as an “abysmal and shambolic state of affairs”.

Trudeau and the UK prime minister spoke earlier this week, discussing how to strengthen trade and economic co-operation between the two allies.

Trade with Canada is worth nearly £17.4bn (C$30bn), according to government figures. About 700 UK-based firms have a presence in Canada, and 1,100 businesses in the UK are owned or controlled by Canadians.

Trudeau’s government has signed a number of large trade pacts in recent years. In addition to joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership with 10 other Pacific nations, Canada recently completed a bruising and unpredictable set of free trade negotiations with the United States.

Currently, economic relations between Canada and the UK are governed by the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (Ceta), a broad free-trade deal recently negotiated between Canada and the European Union that eliminated a number of pre-existing tariffs. Despite the challenges, Trudeau said he remained “very optimistic” that key provisions of Ceta could form the basis of the new agreement.

“I’m very hopeful that it’s going to get done, but that really is up to the UK government because we’re there for it,” said Trudeau. “I just hope they can come around to it.”







No.15 article:
Alcoholic anaesthetist jailed for killing Briton during caesarean birth in France

Helga Wauters imprisoned for three years and banned from practising after death of Xynthia Hawke

An alcoholic anaesthetist who botched an emergency caesarean operation leaving a young British mother dead has been sentenced to three years in prison and banned from practising medicine.

Helga Wauters, 51, was found guilty of manslaughter after pushing a breathing tube into 28-year-old Xynthia Hawke’s oesophagus instead of her windpipe. Even after Hawke cried out in pain, vomited, turned blue and went into cardiac arrest, the anaesthetist, who admitted she had an alcohol problem and had been drinking since early morning on the day of the operation, failed to react.

Hawke’s baby boy was born healthy on 26 September 2014, but she was left in an irreversible coma and died four days later. She never saw her child.

Wauters was also ordered to pay almost €1.4m (£1.3m) in damages to the victim’s family: Hawke’s son; the baby’s father and her partner, Yannick Balthazar; her sister, Iris; and her parents, Clare and Fraser Hawke, from Somerset.

After the sentence was announced on Thursday, Balthazar, 39, who lives near Biarritz in the French Pyrenees, said he was relieved that the court had imposed the maximum sentence on Wauters. “Justice has set an example for this kind of doctor, who in my eyes is not a doctor, in going all the way and sentencing her to three years in prison and banning her from practising, thus showing that she is not competent,” he said.

Last month, a court in Pau heard that Wauters, a Belgian citizen and a reportedly “brilliant” medical student, had previously lost two hospital jobs because of her drinking, and had spent several periods in rehab.

She had been working at the private clinic in Orthez, south-west France for only two weeks, but was about to be dismissed because of reports she was drinking, bringing plastic bottles filled with a mix of vodka and water to work.

After Wauters was called to the clinic to treat Hawke, a colleague noticed while they were scrubbing up that her breath smelled of alcohol, the court was told. Police later found 14 empty vodka bottles at Wauters’ flat. She told investigators she need to drink before work to “stop her hands trembling”.

Wauters admitted “part of the responsibility” for the botched operation but blamed a faulty ventilator in the operating theatre for Hawke’s death. Experts who examined the machine afterwards reported that it was in perfect working order.

During the hearing, Wauters exercised her right to silence, reading a declaration saying that she would “regret this tragedy all my life” but said she did not “merit being sent back to prison”, having spent two months on remand in 2014. She asked to be able to continue practising in the future.

The public prosecutor had requested the maximum three-year sentence and a definitive ban. On Thursday, the three judges agreed.

In an emotional statement at the October trial, Hawke’s sister, Iris, said her death had devastated their family and they had waited six years for justice. “Xynthia’s death should never have happened. I miss her every day of my life. Xynthia’s life was put in the hands of Helga Wauters, who made the decision to come to work drunk … this decision killed my sister that night,” she told the court.





No.16 article:
&#x27;Robot&#x27; building in Kaliningrad to be demolished next year

House of Soviets, compared to robot’s head, was left unfinished after Soviet Union’s collapse

A hulking, never-occupied building sardonically likened to a robot’s head that has loomed over the Russian city of Kaliningrad for decades is to be demolished next year, the region’s governor says.

The 21-storey House of Soviets was left unfinished when funding ran out in 1985 amid the Soviet Union’s economic struggles. The building, which later was assessed to be structurally unsound, became one of the city’s architectural emblems, particularly when the fan zone for the 2018 World Cup matches in Kaliningrad was set up in a vast square next to it.

The Brutalist building’s protruding covered balconies resembling two eyes and a mouth, led to it acquiring the nickname “The Buried Robot”.

The regional governor, Anton Alikhanov, said demolition was expected to begin early next year and officials were discussing the possibility of making fragments of it available as souvenirs, the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper has reported.

Kaliningrad is the administrative centre of the Russian exclave of the same name, which is located between Poland, Lithuania and the Baltic Sea.





No.17 article:
Letter: Lord Sacks obituary

I learned that both esteemed clerics, and eventual peers, were Arsenal supporters, and by complete coincidence were going to be appointed to their respective positions at the same time.

It occurred to me they might care to meet each other informally without publicity over a game of football. I had never met either of them but hoped such a meeting would bode well for future interfaith relationships. I was right. They both accepted and became good friends.





No.18 article:
Dutch police arrest man over Saudi embassy shooting

No injuries after shots fired at building in The Hague day after attack on WW1 event in Jeddah

Dutch police have arrested a man after multiple shots were fired at the Saudi embassy in The Hague, causing damage but no injuries.

The incident occurred the day after a bomb exploded at a first world war commemoration attended by foreign diplomats in the Saudi city of Jeddah.

The 40-year-old suspect was detained in Zoetermeer, 10 miles (16km) from The Hague, about eight hours after the shooting at 6am.

“Investigation led to the Zoetermeer suspect and the man was arrested in a house in Zoetermeer,” The Hague police said in a statement.

“Police officers also confiscated a passenger car for further investigation. The suspect is detained and will be questioned.”

Police found several bullet casings outside the embassy, they said. Numerous bullet holes could be seen in the windows, an Agence France-Presse journalist said.

The police spokesman Steven van Santen said a forensic examination was under way involving “traces on the bullet holes and the bullets”.

The Saudi embassy confirmed none of its staff were hurt, and said it had advised Saudi citizens in the Netherlands to “exercise caution”.

“Embassy security officers informed security authorities of the incident as soon as it occurred,” the Saudi embassy said in a statement posted on Twitter.

The Saudi government “condemns this cowardly attack, and thanks the Dutch authorities for their prompt response”.

The Dutch foreign ministry said it “takes this very seriously and is in close contact with the Saudi authorities”.

On Wednesday, a bomb at a non-Muslim cemetery in Jeddah hit an Armistice Day commemoration being attended by diplomats from France, Greece, Italy, Britain and the US. At least two people were wounded.





No.19 article:
While the top infectious diseases expert commands respect among much of the public, he has received personal death threats as a result of his high-profile statements about the coronavirus pandemic.

The health expert Prof David Heymann, who joined Fauci in a Chatham House webinar, said science had become highly politicised to the point that a mask wearer was seen as a Democrat and a non-mask wearer as a Republican





No.20 article:
Wednesday marked new record for daily cases with 143,231 new infections and 2,005 deaths

November is on track to be the worst month of the pandemic so far in the US as new cases and hospitalisations continue to surge to record highs.

There were 143,231 new cases and 2,005 deaths in the US on Wednesday, according to figures recorded by Johns Hopkins University. It marked the ninth consecutive day of cases topping 100,000 and a new record for daily cases.

It comes after the country recorded more than a million cases in the first 10 days of November.

Total cases in the US have now reached over 10.3m and 241,910 people have died, the highest totals in the world.

Health experts have in part put the increase down to incoming cold weather driving people indoors and frustration with public health precautions such as masks.

Dr Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease expert, said America can slow the spread by “doubling down” on precautions such as mask-wearing, avoiding crowds, keeping activities outdoors and social distancing – and that if people do so a national lockdown could be avoided.

“We would like to stay away from that [a national lockdown] because there is no appetite for locking down in the American public. But I believe that we can do it without a lockdown, I really do,” he told ABC on Thursday morning.

He added: “The best opposite strategy to locking down is to intensify the public health measures short of locking down. So if you can do that well, you don’t have to take that step that people are trying to avoid which has so many implications, both psychologically and economically.”

He urged the American public to “hang in there”, saying a vaccine should be on its way to highest priority people in December and to everyone else within the second quarter of 2021.

“The cavalry is coming. Vaccines are going to have a major positive impact … So if we can just hang in there, do the public health measures that we’re talking about, we’re going to get this under control, I promise you,” he said.

Daily cases are on the rise in 49 states, and deaths per day are climbing in 39.

North and South Dakota and Wisconsin are among the worst affected states, while Texas this week became the first state to record a million cases.

California is also heading towards the 1m mark, recording a total of 995,575 cases, according to Johns Hopkins data. In Los Angeles, the Dodger stadium is being used as a testing centre.

A White House coronavirus taskforce report distributed to states on Tuesday evening reportedly said: “There is continued, accelerating community spread across the top half of the country, where temperatures have cooled and Americans have moved indoors.”

It also warned of continued deterioration in the so-called sun belt states across the south and “the most diffuse spread experienced to date”, reported CNN.

Hospitalisations in the US broke records for a second consecutive day. The Covid Tracking Project recorded 65,368 people hospitalised on Wednesday – up from 61,964 the previous day and double the figure for a month ago.

Amid healthcare staffing concerns in North Dakota, the governor, Doug Burgum, has said that asymptomatic healthcare workers with Covid-19 will be allowed to continue working in Covid-19 hospital units.

In New York, where infection rates are on the rise, the governor, Andrew Cuomo, announced on Wednesday that restaurants, bars and gyms would be required to close at 10pm, starting on Friday, and that gatherings at private homes would be limited to 10 people.

“If you look at where the cases are coming from, if you do the contact tracing, you’ll see they’re coming from three main areas: establishments where alcohol is served, gyms and indoor gatherings at private homes,” Cuomo said.

New York City was the world’s worst hotspot for the virus back in the early spring, then gradually got infections under control and is now urgently trying to ensure that the city and state do not experience a full-blown “second wave” of coronavirus.





No.21 article:
French professor faces disciplinary case over hydroxychloroquine claims

 Didier Raoult stands accused of touting drug as a coronavirus treatment without evidence 

A French professor who touts the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine as a coronavirus treatment – without evidence, scientists say – will appear before a disciplinary panel charged with ethics breaches, an order of doctors has said.

Marseille-based Didier Raoult stands accused by his peers of spreading false information about the benefits of the drug. His promotion of hydroxychloroquine was taken up by the US and Brazilian presidents, Donald Trump and Jair Bolsonaro, who trumpeted its unproven benefits in a way critics say put people’s lives at risk.

No clinical trials have yet found in favour of using hydroxychloroquine against Covid-19, and critics say that due to potential serious side-effects, treating coronavirus patients with it is worse than no treatment at all.

In June, the British-led Recovery trial team said hydroxychloroquine did nothing to reduce coronavirus mortality.

A group representing 500 specialists of France’s Infectious Diseases Society (SPILF) filed a complaint with the national order of doctors of the Bouche-du-Rhône department, which includes Marseille, in July. They accused Raoult of breaking nine rules of the doctors’ code of ethics. Other doctors and patients have also lodged complaints.

On Thursday, the order confirmed it had given the go-ahead for a disciplinary hearing after reviewing the complaints against Raoult. The hearing will probably take place next year.

Raoult’s lawyer, Fabrice Di Vizio, confirmed they had received notice of the decision, but said his client would be cleared. If found guilty, Raoult could be fined, merely warned, or barred from practising.

Raoult, who heads the infectious diseases department of La Timone hospital in Marseille, said in March that his study of 80 patients showed “favourable” outcomes in four out of five treated with hydroxychloroquine. But his peers say there is no scientific evidence to back up the claim.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, visited the scientist on 9 April, at the height of the pandemic, when people in France were observing strict stay-at-home rules.





No.22 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Country has opted for light-touch, anti-lockdown approach since start of pandemic

New infections and hospital admissions have surged in Sweden as the country battles a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic that officials had hoped its light-touch, anti-lockdown approach would mitigate.

“We consider the situation extremely serious,” the director of health and medical care services for Stockholm, Björn Eriksson, told the state broadcaster SVT this week. “We can expect noticeably more people needing hospital care over the coming weeks.”

Swedish hospitals were treating 1,004 patients for Covid-19, SVT said, an increase of 60% over the previous week’s 627. Data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control suggests the rise in recent weeks may be Europe’s fastest.

New infections are also surging, hitting a seven-day average of more than 4,000 this week against fewer than 500 at the beginning of October. The country recorded 4,635 new infections on Thursday.

Anders Tegnell, the country’s chief epidemiologist, told a press conference that case numbers had shown “a pretty big increase last week” and would “certainly increase” again this week, although perhaps not by quite as much.

The prime minister, Stefan Löfven, however, said on Wednesday that all indicators were “going in the wrong direction. The infection is spreading fast, and in the past week the number of people being treated in intensive care has more than doubled.”

Löfven said Sweden risked “more people getting sick, more people dying, more overworked people in the healthcare sector, more postponed operations … We need everybody to follow the recommendations. Every decision we take matters.”

On Wednesday the government announced it would ban the sale of alcohol in bars, restaurants and nightclubs after 10pm from 20 November to the end of February. Stockholm has banned visits to care homes and Gothenburg is set to follow suit.

On Thursday Sweden added four more regions to the list of those taking stricter local measure, in line with an approach that, since the start of the crisis, has been asking – rather than ordering – people to comply with health agency advice on physical distancing and hygiene.

Unlike other countries that have imposed (and re-imposed) strict lockdowns on shops, bars, restaurants and gyms, Sweden has kept similar facilities open throughout the pandemic, and the wearing of face masks is still not officially recommended outside hospitals.

callout-coronavirus

Tegnell has always denied the aim was rapid herd immunity, but to slow the virus enough for health services to cope. He has also, however, repeatedly said he expected Sweden’s second wave to involve relatively fewer cases than countries that locked down, because of an expected higher level of immunity.

In fact, all studies carried out so far suggest immunity in and around Stockholm is significantly lower than the national health agency predicted. Twenty per cent of Covid-19 tests in the capital last week were positive, compared with 16% and 8.4% in previous weeks, the national news agency TT reported.

However, officials note that countries such as Spain and France, which stemmed their first wave through tough mandatory measures, have also experienced dramatic second waves, which might suggest Sweden’s decision not to lock down has not played a significant role in the recent surge in infections.

Since the start of the pandemic Sweden – which at one stage in June had Europe’s highest per-capita Covid-19 fatality rate – has confirmed 171,365 cases of infections and 6,122 deaths. Its death toll per capita is many times higher than its Nordic neighbours, but lower than countries such as Italy, Spain and the UK.

Lena Einhorn, a former virologist who is one of the fiercest critics of the country’s strategy, said whatever people outside Sweden thought would make little difference. “At first they said: ‘Wow, perhaps they are right,’” Einhorn told Deutsche Welle.

“Then there were more and more deaths in Sweden, and we became a monster; everyone thought Sweden was mad. Then in the summer, when there were fewer deaths, Sweden became a heaven on earth again,” she said.

“And finally when infections increased again in many countries in the autumn and there was opposition to new lockdowns, Sweden became the idol of libertarians. That’s no longer the case, now that cases are going up again in Sweden.”





No.23 article:
Tribute to alabai sheepdog towers above roundabout in capital of Ashgabat

Turkmenistan’s longtime president has unveiled a huge gilded statue of a dog on a busy roundabout in the capital.

Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov has also written an ode to the local alabai breed and given one of the dogs to his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin.

The statue, which has a screen wrapped around the pedestal showing alabai dogs in action, joins another of Berdymukhamedov seated on a horse, also coated in gold, at a different junction in Ashgabat.

Dogs and horses are sources of national pride in Turkmenistan, where they are widely used by the many traditional herders among the population of 6 million.

Berdymukhamedov has run the tightly controlled former Soviet republic since 2007 and is unofficially known as the arkadag, or protector.

He has praised the alabai, or Central Asian shepherd dog, as an example of national heritage and written a book about them. He gave Putin a puppy in 2017.

The large, stocky breed is known for its prowess in protecting sheep and goats from wolves. It is also used to guard homes and in dog fights, a popular form of entertainment in Turkmenistan.





No.24 article:
Nora Quoirin inquest: father says teenager had no survival instinct

Sebastien Quoirin challenges suggestions Nora roamed jungle after going missing in Malaysia

The father of a London teenager whose body was found in a Malaysian jungle has said his daughter had no survival instinct and was not capable of walking alone through such slippery, hazardous terrain.

Sebastien Quoirin, whose daughter Nora, 15, went missing while on a family holiday at an eco-resort last year, rejected police suggestions that she had simply climbed out of her bedroom window and wandered off during the night.

Speaking by video link at an inquest into Nora’s death, he said such behaviour would have been completely out of character and that she had a neurological condition that meant she would have struggled to venture so far.

“Nora’s mobility, Nora’s balance was not great. Nora wasn’t capable of – she didn’t have any survival instinct,” he said. “Given the fact that she was not clothed, she was only wearing underwear, she didn’t have any shoes, I could not understand or imagine first of all how she would get out of the resort and venture into the jungle.”

He said that when he identified Nora’s body, he noticed that her feet were dirty but not injured in the way that would be expected had she walked barefoot through the jungle for days.

Nora’s body was found unclothed beside a stream more than a mile from the holiday resort after a 10-day search operation. Nora had been sharing a room with her brother and sister. When the family woke one morning, she had disappeared and a large window in the hotel room was open.

Police maintain that their investigation found no sign of criminal activity and that there was no indication Nora had been abducted. Nora’s mother and father have criticised the police for what they see as a slow and ineffective response.

Sebastien Quoirin said rescuers searched the area where Nora was eventually discovered four times, including once with a sniffer dogs, but failed to spot her.

He challenged suggestions that Nora was not found sooner because she had been constantly on the move. His daughter, who had learning disabilities and physical disabilities, did not have the stamina to be walking for seven days, he said. “Nora would not know what to eat, she would have been seriously dehydrated I think after a couple of days … she would have been extremely weak.”

On Wednesday Nora’s mother, Meabh Quoirin, told the inquest she heard “muffled whispering” inside the family’s chalet on the night her daughter disappeared, but she was half asleep at the time and did not act. Sebastien said he too heard such noises.

Meabh also said it was highly unlikely that Nora, who weighed 30kg (4st 10lb), would have been capable of pushing open and climbing out of the bedroom window. Sebastien said Nora had never wandered out of their front door at home.

The resort’s owner, Haanim Bamadhaj, admitted to the inquest in August that the window of the chalet was broken and that it could be opened from the outside.

Some of the fencing around the resort was also broken, Sebastien said, and had Nora walked across it, she would have injured her feet. He said it was possible that Nora was abducted and that the perpetrator abandoned her when they realised she had disabilities and that her disappearance had attracted media attention.

Nora’s parents have described the police response as lacking urgency. On Wednesday, Meabh said the officer sent to interview her could not communicate effectively in English, and that on the first day of the hunt for Nora the police were initially reluctant to continue searching into the night. It was not until days after Nora had vanished that police took fingerprints from the chalet.

An autopsy concluded that Nora was likely to have died of starvation and stress after spending seven days in the jungle. Her family have said many questions remain unanswered. The inquest is expected to continue into December.





No.25 article:
Thousands more refugees cross into Sudan to flee fighting in Ethiopia

Fears grow of humanitarian crisis as conflict in Tigray region pushes 8,000 people across border in two days

Thousands more refugees have fled fighting in northern Ethiopia’s Tigray region and crossed into neighbouring Sudan, as fears grow that conflict between national and provincial forces could prompt a serious humanitarian crisis.

As many as 10,000 Ethiopians are now thought to have already crossed the border in the last two days, and aid officials say hundreds of thousands more are likely to leave their homes if the conflict, now entering its second week, does not end.

Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched military operations in Tigray, after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets. The Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which is in power in the province, denies the attack and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify deploying the offensive.

Sudanese frontier officials described hungry and tired children, as well as casualties from the fighting, arriving in Sudan after a difficult journey.

“More and more people, including wounded from the operations there, are still coming. The numbers are increasing rapidly. There are lots of children and women,” said Khalid Al-Sir, the head of the government refugee agency in Kassala state, in east Sudan.

“They are arriving very tired and exhausted. They are hungry and thirsty since they have walked long distances on rugged terrain.”

The situation on the ground is deteriorating rapidly, Sir said.

One 30 year old border police officer described a day-long journey on foot with some 30 others fleeing, before spending two days in Sudan, exposed to the sun and wind in a border town that is quickly becoming overwhelmed.

The fighting has involved clashes between ground troops, air strikes and artillery duels, with heavy casualties reported on both sides.

Airports in Tigray are closed, roads blocked, internet services cut off and even banks are no longer operating. Sajjad Mohammad Sajid, the United Nations’ humanitarian chief in Ethiopia, said on Tuesday evening that long lines had appeared outside bread shops and supply-laden trucks are stuck at the province’s borders.

Sajid told the Associated Press that up to 2 million people in the now isolated province were having a “very, very difficult time” and were short of fuel or food, or both.

Telephone lines to the region were still down, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) said in its latest report on the crisis.

In a new statement on Thursday, Abiy claimed that the western part of the Tigray region had been liberated, and accused the TPLF rulers of seeking to “destroy Ethiopia.”

The top U.S. diplomat for Africa, Tibor Nagy, spoke with Ethiopia’s foreign minister on Wednesday “to urge again immediate action to restore peace and de-escalate tensions,” a State Department spokesperson said.

Earlier this week, Abiy brushed aside requests from the UN, the UK and the African Union for an immediate end to hostilities.

“Operations will cease as soon as the criminal junta is disarmed, legitimate administration in the region restored, and fugitives apprehended [and] brought to justice,” Abiy posted on Twitter.

Both sides have claimed successes, including federal troops taking an airport and Tigrayans alleging they downed a jet. With limited communications to the region and outsiders barred, it is difficult to verify such statements.

The government has confirmed, however, that the TPLF is controlling a compound of the powerful Northern Command military in Tigray’s capital, Mekelle.

“It looks like, unfortunately, this may not be something which can be resolved by any party in a week or two,” Sajid said. “It looks like it’s going to be a protracted conflict, which is a huge concern from the point of view of protection of civilians.”

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power in 2018. He won last year’s Nobel peace prize for ending a war with neighbouring Eritrea.

The sweeping political reforms the 44-year-old former soldier pushed through won wide praise, but have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface.

Tigrayan leaders have complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

The postponement of national elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa, the capital, voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

Both sides have access to heavy weapons, armour and considerable stocks of ammunition, and observers have warned that a lengthy conflict is possible.

This would be immensely damaging to a fragile country, and region.

The federal government on Thursday said some 150 suspected “operatives” accused of seeking to “strike fear and terror” throughout the country had been detained.

The statement said the suspects “happen to be ethnically diverse,” but concerns remain high among ethnic Tigrayans amid reports of being singled out by authorities.

The Committee to Protect Journalists, a global campaign group, called the arrests of the reporters “a dangerous reversal of the early steps taken by [the] government to improve press freedom”.

The standoff leaves nearly 900 aid workers in the Tigray region struggling to contact the outside world, let alone bring in humanitarian supplies.

There were already 100,000 internally displaced people and 600,000 dependent on food aid in Tigray before the conflict, aid agencies said.





No.26 article:
Ghana&#x27;s former leader Jerry Rawlings dies at 73

Rawlings led two coups but went on to bring democratic rule to west African country

Jerry Rawlings, who seized power twice in military coups but is now regarded as a driving force behind Ghana’s emergence as a stable democracy, has died, aged 73.

Ghana’s president, Nana Akufo-Addo, said in a statement that Rawlings had died on Thursday morning at a hospital in Accra after a short illness. “A great tree has fallen and Ghana is poorer for this loss,” he said.

Rawlings’ takeovers in 1979 and 1981 were marked by authoritarian rule and the execution of senior military officers, including Gen Frederick Akuffo, whom he overthrew in the first coup.

But Rawlings went on to oversee Ghana’s transition to multi-party democracy before stepping down in 2001. Today, Ghana is considered one of west Africa’s most mature democracies and regularly sees power change hands between its two main parties.

John Mahama, the leader of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) party that Rawlings founded, said on Twitter that he had suspended campaigning for the 7 December presidential election. The election will pit Akufo-Addo against his main challenger, Mahama, a former president who lost to the incumbent in a 2016 election, and other candidates from smaller parties.

The son of a Scottish father and Ghanaian mother, Rawlings first came to power in the 1979 coup when he was an air force lieutenant. He transferred power to civilian rule soon after, but then led another coup two years later, decrying government corruption and weak leadership. He ruled as chairman of a joint military-civilian government from 1981 to 1993.

Rawlings started out as a populist inspired by the leftwing policies of the Soviet Union and Cuba, but he eventually turned to the free market to boost Ghana’s suffering economy. As president, he liberalised the economy and encouraged investment in the oil and gold sectors. 

He also heeded the calls for multi-party democracy that swept Africa in the early 1990s, and held Ghana’s first elections since 1979 in 1992. With all the levers of power at his disposal, he beat the opposition and claimed re-election four years later in 1996.

In 2001, he handed over power to John Kufour, of the opposition party, who had defeated Rawlings’ vice-president in the previous year’s election.

Rawlings remained a power broker in Ghanaian politics after stepping down, while serving in various international diplomatic posts, including the African Union’s representative in Somalia.

“Africa has lost a stalwart of pan-Africanism and a charismatic continental statesman,” the AU commission chair, Moussa Faki, said on Twitter.

A statement from the Nigerian president, Muhammadu Buhari, said: “The entire African continent will sorely miss the sterling qualities of the great leader.

“The passion, discipline and moral strength that the former Ghanaian leader employed to reposition his country over many years continue to reverberate across the continent and beyond.”





No.27 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Campaigners say report on first wave shows government failed to protect the most vulnerable

People with learning disabilities are dying of coronavirus at more than six times the rate of the general population, according to “deeply troubling” figures that have prompted a government review.

A report from Public Health England (PHE) found that 451 in every 100,000 people registered as having learning disabilities died after contracting Covid-19 in the first wave of the pandemic, when the figures were adjusted for age and sex.

Because not all Covid deaths among people with learning disabilities are registered as such, the true figure is likely to be 692 in every 100,000, or 6.3 times the UK average, the report estimated.

Campaigners said the figures showed the government had failed to protect the most vulnerable.

The report found that Covid deaths among those with learning disabilities were also more widely spread across age groups, with far greater mortality rates among younger adults.

Those aged 18-34 were 30 times more likely to die with the virus than their counterparts in the general population.

The higher death rate is likely to reflect the greater prevalence of health problems such as diabetes and obesity among those with learning disabilities, the report said. It also noted that some learning disabilities, such as Down’s syndrome, can make people more vulnerable to respiratory infections.

People with learning disabilities are also likely to have difficulty recognising symptoms and following advice on testing, social distancing and infection prevention, the report said. It may also be harder for those caring for them to recognise symptoms if these cannot be communicated, it added.

The care minister, Helen Whately, said she had asked the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) to review the findings and advise on further action.

Dan Scorer, the head of policy at the learning disability charity Mencap, said the review “must look closely at why so many people with a learning disability died from Covid-19 and what should have been done differently”.

He said: “The government has failed to protect some of our most vulnerable citizens. Decades of underinvestment in social care has left most people with a learning disability with no support to understand ever-changing guidance on staying safe and accessing testing.

“This, combined with the closure of the NHS for all but the most urgent care, has clearly had a devastating impact on people with a learning disability, and exacerbated already shocking levels of premature death and health inequalities.”

Prof John Newton, PHE’s director of health improvement, said: “It is deeply troubling that one of the most vulnerable groups in our society suffered so much during the first wave of the pandemic. We must do everything possible to prevent this happening again.”

The shadow care minister, Barbara Keeley, called for immediate action to address the problem. In a letter to the health secretary, Matt Hancock, she said: “People with learning disabilities deserve better than this, they deserve action to protect them from increased risk this reports shows they have of catching Covid-19 and dying from it.”

The study examined data from the Learning Disabilities Mortality Review (LeDeR) at the University of Bristol and NHS England’s Covid-19 patient notification system (CNPS), which records deaths in hospital settings.

callout-coronavirus

LeDeR received 623 reports of deaths among people with learning disabilities that were definitely or possibly related to Covid-19 between the beginning of February and 5 June. This suggests a national total of 956 deaths after accounting for under-reporting.

The virus accounted for 54% of deaths of adults with learning disabilities in residential care in the review period, and 53% of the deaths of those receiving community care.

The number of deaths among white people with learning disabilities from all causes in 2020 was 1.9 times the number in the two previous years, the report said. For Asian or British Asian groups it was 4.5 times and for black or black British groups 4.4 times.

Kevin Marriott, 63, a sports journalist from St Austell in Cornwall, is convinced the NHS discriminated against his brain-damaged brother Nigel before he died of Covid on 8 April.

“People with learning disabilities seem to be be swept aside,” he said. “He wasn’t given the sort of treatment we would have expected.”

Nigel, who was 60, was living semi-independently in supported accommodation near his brother. At the start of the first lockdown he fell ill in the Midlands, where he was staying with their sister.

Doctors initially failed to diagnose Covid and gave him antibiotics for a suspected stomach bug instead. When he was admitted to hospital, Kevin said he was denied treatment on a ventilator.

“I got the impression that normal patients would have gone on to a ventilator, but he was just allowed to die. I do think the health service failed him,” he said.

“We should have had an explanation from the doctor on why he couldn’t have any more treatment. We were devastated we couldn’t be allowed to travel up to be with him after supporting Nigel for all his life. I didn’t even get to the talk to the doctor. I think there should be closer involvement of family members.”





No.28 article:
Owners of coffee bar in two Covid zones find Italian rules a grind

Till and coffee machine lie in different regions, each with its own restrictions in force

As if Italy’s coloured three-tiered system to combat coronavirus wasn’t confusing enough, the rules have left the owners of a bar and restaurant in a hamlet that straddles the border of Tuscany and Emilia-Romagna even more baffled.

A historic border map essentially splits the bar area of L’Appennino Da Pacetto, located on a mountain ridge between San Pellegrino in Alpe, a hamlet of 11 residents in the Emilia-Romagna province of Modena, and Castiglione di Garfagnana in the Tuscan province of Lucca, in two.

The coffee machine lies in Tuscany, which on Wednesday was upgraded to the medium-risk orange zone, meaning bars and restaurants have had to close, while the till is in Emilia-Romagna, in the yellow zone, where they can stay open until 6pm.

When the rules were announced, confused regulars called the owners, Paolo Marchi Lunardi and his wife, Vanessa Verucchi, asking if they were still allowed to come for coffee.

For now, the bar, said to be one of the oldest in Italy, is open, with the couple making the coffees in Tuscany and serving and taking payments in Emilia-Romagna, even though technically they would need to fill in a self-declaration form to enter Tuscany. The bar’s licence is also held in Modena. The restaurant, meanwhile, is open as usual as it lies on the Emilia-Romagna side.

The quirk is usually a tourist attraction, drawing visitors keen to take photos of the “border”. But in times of Covid, it’s a nuisance.

“At the moment we’re practically open as we haven’t been told otherwise, nobody knows the rules,” Verucchi told the Guardian. “On top of Italy’s already contorted mechanism of bureaucracy – which I describe as a dinosaur – the confusing Covid rules are an additional burden.”

The church, which also straddles San Pellegrino in Alpe, a resting point for pilgrims over the centuries and today a popular area among hikers, and Castiglione di Garfagnana, faces the same dilemma and so it is unclear whether it can still welcome parishioners.





No.29 article:
China is breaking Hong Kong treaty with UK, says Dominic Raab

Foreign secretary says ban on opposition lawmakers breach of Sino-British declaration

Beijing’s imposition of new rules disqualifying opposition legislators in Hong Kong constitutes a breach of legally binding international commitments, the UK foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, has said.

Raab said the move represented a “clear breach” of the Sino-British joint declaration, which was supposed to guarantee Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy under Chinese rule.

In a statement, Raab said the UK would work with allies to hold the Chinese government to its obligations under international law.

“China has once again broken its promises and undermined Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy,” said Raab. “The UK will stand up for the people of Hong Kong, and call out violations of their rights and freedoms. With our international partners, we will hold China to the obligations it freely assumed under international law.”

A measure passed by China’s highest legislative body on Wednesday allowed the disqualification of “unpatriotic” opposition members in Hong Kong’s parliament and prompted the entire pro-democracy caucus to announce their resignation.

 The move is likely to signal fresh sanctions on Chinese and Hong Kong officials, probably in cooperation with the US. 

The UK said the decision to disqualify Hong Kong legislators was “part of a pattern apparently designed to harass and stifle all voices critical of China’s policies”. The new rules for disqualification provide a further tool in this campaign, with vague criteria open to wide-ranging interpretation.

The Chinese actions breached both China’s commitment that Hong Kong would enjoy a “high degree of autonomy” and the right to freedom of speech guaranteed under paragraph 3 and annex I of the declaration, the Foreign Office said.

The Foreign Office, under pressure from politicians from all parties, is expected to go ahead with sanctioning at least four Hong Kong officials shortly, but will not discuss details since they do not want to give advance notice to anyone liable to be affected. 

In the Commons the Foreign Office minister Nigel Adams, replying to an urgent question, said the Chinese ambassador was being summoned to hear the UK government’s concerns and to demand that China uphold its international obligations.

Adams, the minister for Asia, said: “We will continue to consider designations under our Magnitsky-style sanctions regime.” He was asked by MPs if Britain would sanction Hong Kong chief executive, Carrie Lam, and said it would not be helpful to speculate on names at this stage.

It is the third time since 1997 and the handover of Hong Kong to China that the UK has asserted a breach of the joint declaration. The first breach according to the British was in 2006. The second was in June 2020 when Beijing introduced the Hong Kong national security legislation.

In March 2016, the former prime minister John Major visited Hong Kong and warned: “If there were any suggestion of a breach of the joint declaration, we would have a duty to pursue every legal and other avenue available to us.”

But in practice the legal routes open to the UK to challenge Beijing are limited to rhetorical denunciation and sanctions against individual Chinese leaders or Hong Kong legislators.

The Sino-British joint declaration itself does not have a mechanism endorsed by both parties to ensure its compliance. Even though the agreement is registered with the United Nations, it did not include mechanisms of supervision by the UN. Therefore, only the signatories of the declaration have the right to raise any potential terms violations.

The main two courts to which the UK could appeal would either be the international court of justice or to a binding third-party permanent court of arbitration, a body that operates outside the UN ambit.

The US national security adviser, Richard O’Brien, said on Wednesday Beijing’s recent actions disqualifying pro-democracy legislators from Hong Kong’s legislative council left no doubt that the Chinese Communist party (CCP) had “flagrantly violated its international commitments”.

He added that the United States would continue “to identify and sanction those responsible for extinguishing Hong Kong’s freedom”.

On Monday, the United States imposed sanctions on four more officials accused of curbing freedoms in Hong Kong while vowing accountability over China’s clampdown in the city.

The European Union said it would look at further measures against China by the end of the year. In a statement the EU said: “These latest steps constitute a further severe blow to political pluralism and freedom of opinion in Hong Kong.” 





No.30 article:
Baby dies on rescue boat after Mediterranean shipwreck

Six-month-old Joseph, from Guinea, was among more than 100 migrants in capsized dinghy

A six-month-old boy who survived a shipwreck has died onboard a rescue boat in the central Mediterranean.

The child, named Joseph and originally from Guinea, was saved by rescuers from the Spanish non-governmental organisation Open Arms late on Wednesday morning after the dinghy in which he was travelling with more than 100 migrants capsized off Libya’s coast. At least five other asylum seekers died as a result of the incident.

‘‘Despite the enormous commitment of our medical team, a six-month-old baby has just died. We requested an urgent evacuation for him and other people in serious conditions, but he didn’t make it. How much pain and sorrow!” Open Arms wrote on Twitter.

The dinghy had allegedly left Sabratha, Libya, but began to deflate after a few hours. After a patrol aircraft from the European agency Frontex raised the alarm, the Open Arms ship promptly intervened.

“When our rescuers arrived, they found themselves in front of a dramatic scene,” Riccardo Gatti, the president of Open Arms Italy, told the Guardian. “The boat had practically imploded and hundreds of people found themselves in the water, in the open sea – some were children.”

Judging Joseph’s condition to be serious, the rescuers asked the Maltese and Italian authorities to evacuate him for medical treatment. However, when the Italian coastguard arrived, Joseph had already died.

“We did all we could to rescue those onboard,” said the medical team of the NGO Italian Emergency, operating onboard the Open Arms. “All this took place just a few kilometres away from an indifferent Europe. Instead of preparing a structured search and rescue system, they instead continue to bury their heads in the sand, pretending not to see the cemetery that the Mediterranean Sea has become.”

On Tuesday, another child, whose age is unknown, was among 13 people who died in a separate shipwreck off Libya’s coast. Eleven survivors were taken back to Libya.

‘‘Change is necessary now, more than ever, to guarantee effective rescue at sea and prevent new tragedies,’’ said Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesperson for the UN Migration Agency, IOM.

In 2020 alone, “over 10,300 migrants have been intercepted at sea and sent back to dangerous Libya,” Di Giacomo said.

According to IOM figures, since the beginning of October, at least 30 migrants have died at sea while trying to reach Italy.

Since the beginning of 2020, about 575 people have died in the central Mediterranean, but the real number is estimated to be considerably higher, according to IOM.

Open Arms is currently the only NGO rescue boat operating in the Central Mediterranean. Many other rescue boats are blocked in Italian ports because officials refuse to authorise their departure.

“Is the European Union watching?” wrote Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders (MSF), on Twitter. “Step the search and rescue capacity up, or let us save lives.”





No.31 article:
Beirut explosion: 100 days on, calls grow for international inquiry

Survivors and lawyers sceptical about Lebanese investigation into August blast that killed 200

Calls are growing for an international investigation into the blast 100 days ago that devastated Lebanon’s capital, Beirut, as survivors, human rights groups and lawyers claim the Lebanese government’s inquiry is badly flawed and unlikely to yield credible results.

Reconstruction is under way in the city but the eastern suburbs are still badly scarred by the ignition of 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that had been stored for years in a port warehouse despite repeated warnings by officials and at least two government reports calling for the highly flammable material to be moved.

The death toll has passed 200, as some of the more than 6,000 people hurt in the explosion – the force of which has been estimated at one-twentieth of that of the nuclear bomb dropped on Hiroshima – have succumbed to their injuries in recent weeks.

“We are still in the denial stage,” said Elie Hasrouty, whose father, Ghassan, worked at the port and died in the blast. His family applied for emergency state funds to rebuild their home but were told they had missed a deadline, he said. “We told [the authorities] our lives were destroyed, it’s your responsibility to survey the damage and follow up with people.”

A compensation fund has been established for victims, but Hasrouty said accessing it required onerous paperwork including obtaining death certificates from four separate offices. “Our file should be known to them,” he said. “They should be contacting us, not the other way around.”

Lebanese authorities have referred the investigation to the judicial council, a special court whose decisions cannot be reviewed. So far it has ordered the arrests of 25 people, including the head of the port and the head of Lebanon’s customs authority, and taken more than 50 witness statements, but it has not made evidence or details of its investigation public.

Organisations such as Human Rights Watch have pointed to allegations of political interference in the appointment of the government’s chief investigator. For decades, UN reports have raised questions over the independence of the Lebanese judiciary.

About 1,000 injured or bereaved have approached Nada Abdelsater, an international lawyer based in Beirut, demanding international assistance in the inquiry. “The Lebanese authorities remain a primary suspect, albeit not the only one,” Abdelsater said. “Therefore, the victims view the Lebanese system as having a fundamental conflict of interest in that it is the accused and the judge.”

Beirut’s Bar Association, which has formed a committee that is pursuing more than 600 cases on behalf of victims of the blast and their families, referred last week to “major challenges and barriers” in the path of justice, without giving details.

The victims’ calls for international involvement are being backed by Amnesty International, which has said the local mechanisms set up to examine the disaster “are neither independent nor impartial”.

“The problem with the people who have been charged or arrested is that they’re all customs or ports officials, and they bear responsibility but it doesn’t end there,” said Aya Majzoub, the Lebanon researcher for Human Rights Watch.

“Ministers have admitted knowing of the existence of the explosive material, along with the president and prime ministers, but there hasn’t been any attempt to investigate their role and responsibility. The entire process lacks credibility because you’re scapegoating lower-level employees instead of trying to find out where the responsibilities lie in the entire political system.”

Senior officials including the president, Michel Aoun, and the prime minister at the time of the blast, Hassan Diab, had received a report warning of the presence of the chemicals – one of several notices raising concern that circulated in the Lebanese government over a period of years – but both have denied any negligence. Diab has been interviewed as part of the official investigation.

Legal Action Worldwide, a global legal advocacy group, will publish a report on Friday outlining why it believes UN involvement in the investigation is essential. It will submit the report to UN officials and key member states before a security council briefing on Lebanon next week.

“According to multiple UN reports over decades, the Lebanese justice system can be summarised as lacking independence, inefficient, lacking in resources and prone to corrupt practices,” said the group’s executive director, Antonia Mulvey, who was part of the UN’s fact-finding mission that found evidence of genocide in Myanmar’s campaign against the Rohingya.

“These factors have resulted in ineffective avenues for justice for victims and no realistic options for accountability within Lebanon, particularly when state actors are involved.”

On Wednesday a victims’ group demonstrated outside Beirut’s Palace of Justice, placing portraits of loved ones who died in the blast on the gates of the courthouse complex.

Youssef al-Mawla, whose 26-year-old son was killed, said the group had been granted a meeting with the government’s main investigator, Fadi Sawan. “We saw that politicians were intervening in the investigation, and we’ve formed this movement to have a strict and proper judge,” he said.

Mawla said he was satisfied by Sawan’s reassurances but he would be closely monitoring the investigation. “We are with him and we support him,” he said. “But if he wants to follow the politicians’ path, we urge him to excuse himself and we will continue.”

Hasrouty said it was not up to him to blame specific officials, but someone had to be accountable for a disaster on that scale. “Everyone can’t just say they did their job when there was an explosion like this,” he said. “There are duties and responsibilities.”

Jassar al-Tahat contributed to this report





No.32 article:
Tripadvisor warns users over Thai hotel that sued guest for bad review

Site adds notice to resort’s listing setting out details of dispute that led to defamation arrest

Tripadvisor has placed a warning on a Thai resort’s listing after the resort sued an American expat over a negative review, briefly landing him in police custody.

In July, Wesley Barnes wrote of encountering “unfriendly staff” and accused the Sea View hotel and spa on Koh Chang island of “modern-day slavery”, following a dispute over a corkage fee.

The resort sued Barnes and he was held for two days after being arrested and charged under Thailand’s strict defamation laws. Barnes and the resort reached a settlement after a mediation session last month.

The notice added to Sea View’s Tripadvisor listing on Wednesday warns would-be guests of what happened to Barnes. “The hotel may have been exercising its legal rights under local law, however, it is our role to inform you so you may take this into consideration when researching your travel plans,” it states.

Tripadvisor said it had taken the “extraordinary action” of posting the warning so that other travellers were aware of the incident.

“Tripadvisor believes in the right of every traveller to write about their first-hand travelling experiences – good or bad,” a spokeswoman said. “Tripadvisor strongly opposes any action where a business, like the Sea View hotel and spa in Koh Chang, uses local law to send someone to jail for expressing their opinion.”

The hotel said it was “deeply disappointed” with Tripadvisor’s move, which it said would “create further confusion and reinitiate a closed case”. AFP has sought comment from Barnes.

Thailand’s tough criminal defamation laws have long drawn scrutiny from human rights and press freedom groups, who say it is used as a weapon to stifle free expression. The maximum sentence is two years in prison and a 200,000 baht (£5,000) fine.

Human Rights Watch’s Asia deputy director, Phil Robertson, said Thailand’s defamation laws were a “time-tested tool” to suppress critical opinions, and some businesses were willing to “sue at the drop of a hat”. He said: “It’s so very, very easy to file these cases with almost no evidence whatsoever.” 





No.33 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: issues delayed calls to vulnerable coronavirus patients, NHS emails show

The government’s struggling test and trace system for England was hit by “huge” IT issues that delayed calls to some of the most vulnerable coronavirus patients last month, NHS emails show.

Sources said the previously undisclosed problems led to delays of up to 48 hours in reaching potentially infected people linked to care homes and hospitals.

The government’s scientific advisers have said 80% of an infected person’s close contacts should be reached within 24 hours to stem the spread of the disease.

The IT failure happened in mid-October when the numbers of infections and people in hospital were rising exponentially across large parts of the UK. They will add to concerns that the £12bn system has failed to keep up with the second wave, which it was supposed to help prevent.

Emails sent to NHS clinical-level contact tracers on 15 and 16 October said the “huge IT issues” were being “worked upon at the highest level”. The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) declined to say whether the issues had been resolved or how many people had been affected.

The problems emerged on 15 October, when an email was sent to NHS clinical professionals that said: “We are aware of huge IT issues today. They have been raised to PHE/Sitel.”

The email said there were issues with “tier 3 contact escalations” getting “stuck” in the system and with “outbreak cases that require contact tracing”. A contact-tracing source said tier 3 contact escalations often related to outbreaks at hospitals or care homes.

Contact tracing is one of the most basic planks of public health responses to a pandemic&nbsp;like the coronavirus. It means literally tracking down anyone that somebody with an infection may have had contact with in the days before they became ill. It was – and always will be – central to the fight against Ebola, for instance. In west Africa in 2014-15, there were large teams of people who would trace relatives and knock on the doors of neighbours and friends to find anyone who might have become infected by touching the sick person.

Most people who get Covid-19 will be infected by their friends, neighbours, family or work colleagues, so they will be first on the list. It is not likely anyone will get infected by someone they do not know, passing on the street.

It is still assumed there has to be reasonable exposure – originally experts said people would need to be together for 15 minutes, less than 2 metres apart. So a contact tracer will want to know who the person testing positive met and talked to over the two or three days before they developed symptoms and went into isolation.

South Korea has large teams of contact tracers and notably chased down all the contacts of a religious group, many of whose members fell ill. That outbreak was efficiently stamped out by contact tracing and quarantine.

Singapore and Hong Kong have also espoused testing and contact tracing and so has Germany. All those countries have had relatively low death rates so far. The&nbsp;World Health Organization&nbsp;says it should be the “backbone of the response” in every country.

Sarah Boseley&nbsp;Health editor

A second memo to NHS clinical leads on 16 October said: “Thank you for your patience and support yesterday. The IT issue from yesterday is unfortunately still NOT resolved and is being worked upon at the highest level.”

A second contact-tracing source said the IT issues were “highly prevalent” for a week and led to delays of up to 48 hours in reaching infectious people and their close contacts.

callout-coronavirus

The glitch occurred in Synergy, the software system used by contact tracers, run by the private firm Sitel, which is being paid £82m by the government for its work on test and trace. Sitel has not responded to a request for comment.

The IT issues came at a critical stage in the pandemic in England, in a week when prevalence was estimated to have more than doubled compared with a fortnight earlier.

Data released by NHS test and trace shows the length of time taken to reach potentially infectious people hit its worst week during the period of the computer errors. Only 43.6% of close contacts were reached by the system within 24 hours in the week to 21 October, compared with 67% the following week. However, it is not known whether the IT failure contributed to these delays.

The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies has said 80% of an infected person’s close contacts need to be reached and told to isolate within 24 hours for test and trace to be effective.

The DHSC said: “We have built the biggest testing system per head of population of all the major countries in Europe and the largest diagnostics network in UK history.

“Through the work of NHS test and trace, over 1.7 million people who may otherwise have unknowingly spread coronavirus have now been reached, and 80.4% of all contacts where communication details were given have been told to self-isolate, helping to break chains of transmission. We continue to work tirelessly to make the service quicker and more effective every day.”





No.34 article:
Finding is based on 50 studies involving medical records of nearly 19 million patients

People from Black and Asian backgrounds are at substantially greater risk of contracting coronavirus than white people, according to a study that highlights the disproportionate impact of the disease on different groups in society.

Black people are twice as likely to become infected with coronavirus as white people, and people from Asian backgrounds are one and a half times as likely, researchers found after analysing 50 studies that reported on the medical records of nearly 19 million Covid patients.

The analysis, published in the journal EClinicalMedicine by the Lancet, is the first comprehensive, systematic review of published research and preliminary papers that delve into the burden of coronavirus on different ethnic groups. About half of the papers have appeared in peer-reviewed journals and the rest are preliminary findings.

Beyond the raised risk of infection, the review suggests people from Asian backgrounds are more likely to be admitted to intensive care and may have a greater risk of death with coronavirus than white people. But the researchers cautioned that none of the studies on intensive care admissions had been peer-reviewed and that the increased risk of death was only borderline statistically significant.

Manish Pareek, an associate clinical professor in infectious diseases at the University of Leicester, said the combined message from the studies was that the disproportionate impact of coronavirus on Black and Asian people was driven by the higher risk of infection in those communities.

The dramatically different rates of infection are believed to be driven by a range of factors, such as greater levels of deprivation, living in larger, multi-generational households, and having more public-facing jobs where working from home is not an option.

Pareek said the findings exposed an urgent need for more targeted public messaging to help people reduce their risk of infection and encourage them to get medical help early on before they become too poorly. “It’s about trying to make sure interventions are available early on, so people can seek advice and care at early time points,” he said.

The research team screened 1,500 published articles and preprints before focusing their analysis on 50 papers produced in the US and the UK. The studies appeared between 1 December 2019 and 31 August this year. The patients with Covid either had a positive swab for the virus or had clinical signs and symptoms of the infection.

Last month a report from the Office for National Statistics said men from black African backgrounds in England and Wales are nearly three times more likely to die from Covid than white men. Women from black Caribbean backgrounds were nearly twice as likely to die as white women. The ONS study concluded that living arrangements and jobs were the main drivers for the increased death rates, rather than pre-existing health conditions such as heart disease and diabetes.

The stark differences in Covid risk raise crucial questions for the government as the NHS prepares to launch a mammoth effort to roll out vaccines, the first of which could be approved by regulators within weeks. While older age is the most important risk factor for dying from coronavirus, there is an argument for prioritising Black and Asian people within each age band.

“These are really difficult decisions that the government and the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) will need to come together on and make until vaccine is more widely available,” Pareek said.

Speaking at a No 10 press briefing on Wednesday, Prof Wei Shen Lim, the chair of the JCVI’s Covid immunisation group, said multiple social and occupational factors lay behind the greater burden of Covid disease in people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. “One of the opportunities we should take with this vaccination programme is to mitigate health inequalities,” he said. “That may mean we have special implementation programmes delivered by community leaders who understand their communities.”

Nishi Chaturvedi, a professor of clinical epidemiology at University College London, who was not involved in the latest study, said the findings largely confirmed concerns raised throughout the pandemic that minority ethic groups have higher risks of infection. But she said it was important to investigate the risks in more closely defined populations, for example Indian Asians and Chinese, rather than lumping the groups together. “We know that exposure and susceptibility factors vary markedly between groups,” she said.

Chaturvedi added that ethnicity was an imprecise proxy for real risk factors. For example, people from ethnic minorities are more likely to work in high-risk occupations such as health and social care, and are more likely to have co-morbidities such as diabetes.

When it comes to prioritising people for vaccine, “it would seem sensible to prioritise on ‘true’ risk factors that increase risk rather than an imprecise proxy”, she said. “I further doubt whether we will have the ability and the strong scientific rationale to create such fine prioritisation groups. Within older people, should we prioritise men, who are at greater risk of infection, or women, who are more prone to long Covid? Should we prioritise people with diabetes over people with established cardiovascular disease? Should we prioritise people living in multi-generational households?”





No.35 article:
Beirut blast: a night of horror, captured by its victims

Warning: this interactive contains audio, photos and videos that some may find distressing.

One hundred days since the blast in the heart of Beirut, memories are not fading. “Sometimes I feel like the ground is shaking, exactly as it was before the explosion,” says Tilda Wakim, who owns a home goods showroom on the edge of the city’s port. “I don’t just remember it. I feel it shake.”

Flashbacks are not her only record of what she and her family underwent on the evening of 4 August.

The detonation of more than 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate housed at the Beirut port for more than seven years was one of the largest non-nuclear blasts ever recorded – and the first of its scale in the smartphone era.

As soon as a fire erupted at the port shortly before 6pm that day, people in Beirut started filming, taking pictures and recording messages. What they captured forms an extraordinary record of the disaster in the city as its residents experienced it. The Guardian, in collaboration with the Arabic podcasting network Sowt, has collected some of their accounts and presented them in the timeline below.

Fouad Wakim, Tilda’s son, was at work in the family’s showroom when he received a video of the fire raging at a warehouse nearby. At 6.07pm, about half a minute before the main explosion, he heard a dull blast. “It sounded like the explosions we used to hear when they were assassinating politicians,” he says. “We thought it was just another assassination.” 

In his apartment in Gemmayze, a suburb a few hundred metres from the port, Jean-Paul Rahal had been watching a political talk show with his mother when the host mentioned reports of the fire. “My mum told me, ‘JP, pack your bags. We have to go, something is happening’,” he recalled.

She filled a bag and he grabbed his passport. Before they left, Jean-Paul noticed the balcony door was still open and went to close it.

In the basement of the home goods showroom, Tilda had also heard the first explosion. The floor beneath them was rumbling. “Did you hear that?” a colleague asked.

She had just enough time to say yes, she says. “And then everything was falling.”

Note: No one was killed or seriously injured in the following videos.

The explosion blanketed the city in dust and rubble. Over the next hours - depicted in our timeline - Tilda and others fought to save themselves and each other, and piece together what had happened.

The explosion plunged the basement where Tilda was working into darkness, and sent the glass wall of an elevator crashing over her. She was conscious, she says, but knew she was bleeding. “I couldn’t see it, but I could feel the liquid,” she says. 

As a younger woman, Tilda had volunteered with the Red Cross. She remembered the training, and scrambled to find her handbag. “I know when a wound is fresh you don’t feel it, but maybe 15 minutes later you might faint,” she says.

“I was preparing myself with my ID and everything.”

Upstairs, an unharmed Fouad was scouring the showroom for his mother. 

Mousa Saleh was not supposed to be staying in a hotel in Gemmayze. But when his brother contracted Covid-19, the family cleared out of the house so he could isolate, and Mousa, 24, found himself working in a hotel room about 400m from the Beirut port. 

In the split-second before he heard the explosion, and then felt its force, he remembered thinking a gas bottle must have blown up in a cafe downstairs.

The blast sent glass shattering over him. An air-conditioning unit crashed over his desk and the door blew off its hinges. “I had no idea what was happening,” he says. “All I was thinking was I need to run.”

Mousa grabbed his laptop and, barefoot, sprinted down the stairs of his hotel towards the exit. “I was still thinking something had happened at [the cafe] Em Nazih,” he says. “It had blown up and people were coming out [of the rooms] bloody and there was debris on the stairs.”

As he emerged into the streets, he took pictures of what he saw. “I realised it wasn’t a problem at Em Nazih,” he says. “The streets were full of dust and people were running around bloody and injured and crying and confused. And there were people lying on the ground.”

Crossing a showroom scattered with broken glass, Fouad managed to reach the basement and free his mother and her colleague. Tilda’s head was gushing blood. They emerged from the showroom into a scene of devastation.

“Where is your brother?” Tilda kept asking Fouad. Omar, her younger son, was a few hundred metres away at home in the portside neighbourhood of Mar Mikhael. Fouad surveyed the damage around them - briefly filming it - and told his mother not to worry. The explosion had been here, near the showroom, and would not have reached Omar’s house.

“I thought maybe it was a car bomb,” said Tilda. “Then I started seeing wounded people coming from other directions. I thought, if it was a car bomb, they would be coming to help. Why are they panicking too? I couldn’t get the answers straight in my head.”

Tilda flagged down a passerby, and used his undershirt to wrap her head wound. Fouad spotted a neighbour’s undamaged car about to scream from the scene. He stopped him, and without asking, opened the back door and guided his wounded mother inside.

Jean-Paul knew the explosion had been massive. He had seen it with his own eyes, storming towards him at the balcony door. “I saw the white smoke, the white cloud,” he said. “As I was flying from the balcony, five or six metres into the living room, the only thought in my head was - this is an atomic bomb.”

The blast had made shrapnel of his household possessions. “My forehead was like a waterfall,” he says. “There was a big hole in my wrist. I was bleeding a lot.” 

A shard of glass was embedded in his mother’s ankle, but she could walk, and they wrapped each other’s wounds in towels and made their way into the street below.

“It wasn’t even a war zone,” he recalls. “It was apocalyptic.” There were injured people, dead bodies, and body parts scattered among the debris. But what struck him hardest was the silence. 

“It was dead quiet,” he says. “No one was screaming, no one was running. Everyone was walking quietly, not saying a word.”

Within a few minutes, Jean-Paul’s brother would reach the house to collect some of their things. He filmed the disarray he found.

In the street outside his hotel, Mousa could see a thick plume of smoke in the distance. He started receiving messages from friends saying there had been an explosion in the city. He was dazed and still without shoes.

“I wasn’t injured but I was walking on glass and I couldn’t find a place to stand where I wouldn’t be cut,” he said.

He made it to Gemmayze’s main thoroughfare, and sat for a moment on the sidewalk. For the first time, he says, he started to comprehend what was happening around him. 

“I’m afraid of blood, and when I started seeing blood coming out of people, and then people dead on the street - people couldn’t get them to wake up - and I was barefoot and people were running and glass was all over the ground,” he says.

“I think at that point I realised people had died and I was alive.”

His body went numb and his hands tightened into fists. A panic attack washed over him. “My parents, my friends were calling me but I couldn’t pick up the phone to answer because I couldn’t move my hands,” he says.

Maya Nehme had been running errands with her daughter in a mall in Hazmieh, a neighbourhood around 7km from the Beirut port. Even at that distance, “the power went off and we heard something explode”, she said.

The mall suffered damage and parts of it were covered in fine debris. “I was shocked and said for sure something in the mall had blown up,” Maya, 52, said as she and others shoppers were escorted to the entrance. 

Outside the centre, she saw a huge cloud of smoke over her neighbourhood Ashrafieh. “That’s what I started shaking,” she says. “I got scared and thought of my kids, the two at home.”

When she finally got through to her children on the landline, “I heard my daughter screaming”, she says.

“My son was telling me the whole house was damaged but they were OK, and nobody had an idea what had happened.”

There were rumours of a terrorist bombing or an Israeli attack. Maya reached her car 20 minutes after the blast, and started driving towards the smoke.

The further up Armenia street that Jean-Paul and his mother walked towards the Rosary hospital, the worse the destruction seemed to get. 

“I kept seeing the pictures of two saints: Saint Therese and Padre Pio,” Jean- Paul recalls. He was not especially religious, he says, “but I started to pray, just within myself.”

Jean-Paul and his mother felt relief as they approached the Rosary hospital, until it came into view. It was gutted.

“The emergency entrance was totally gone,” he said. A security guard stopped anyone from entering.

He was coming out of shock now, and Jean-Paul started to feel panic. “I thought, if the other hospitals are going to be in the same state - what do I do? Go to a hospital in the mountains? But how do I get there? And I’m going to lose more blood - someone has to close my wounds before I bleed to death. All these thoughts started flooding in.”

As they had been trudging up the street, his mother had taken Jean-Paul’s picture.

Later, when he asked her why - amid that tumult - she had thought to do so, she told him it was in case neither of them survived. “Then someone will know where we were, and what happened to us,” she said.

As Maya approached her neighbourhood, the road turned from gravel to glass. Rumours were circulating that a stash of fireworks had detonated, but it was clear this was something much larger. “It’s like during the war,” Maya said in a message. “The glass, the surroundings - it’s something horrible. For sure, it’s not fireworks.”

People with bloody faces and heads were mobbing the hospitals as she passed. “I can’t even drive anymore,” she said in a message at 7.02pm, her rage building at the country’s leaders, already implicated in plunging the country into a deep financial crisis.

Three minutes later she recorded another voice message, declaring she was done with Lebanon for good, and leaving for the Gulf where her husband works. 

By the time Tilda arrived at the Clemenceau Medical Centre, it was already inundated with the injured and dying. There were pools of blood on the floors and doctors were struggling to treat more than a handful of people at a time. 

With the undershirt still wrapped around her head, Tilda started helping medical staff cover people’s wounds. She found herself seeking out the young men around her sons’ ages. “The whole time I looked at these guys thinking, oh my god, their mother must be worried the way I am about my sons,” she says.

The injured had come from all the areas surrounding the Beirut port, including one young man from Mar Mikhael, her son Omar’s neighbourhood. “There’s even damage there?” Tilda asked him, her chest tightening. 

Mar Mikhael had been levelled, he told her.

"I couldn't think anymore," she says. "My whole body went numb."

The realisation had struck Fouad, too. His calls to Omar returned a dead signal. He shouted a desperate voice message to his friends: 

It had been hard to miss the huge fire that was billowing from Beirut’s port by 6pm that day. Omar had seen it from the window of his house. When he had heard the first, smaller explosion, he had scrambled to start recording the scene outside. It was five seconds before the blast. 

Omar's destroyed phone was found by a clean-up volunteer days later in the rubble outside the family's house. It was repaired and returned to the family. They opened to the last saved video.

The force of the blast had lifted Omar off his feet and across the room. He had remained conscious, but was badly hurt and barely able to see. Crumpled in the debris, Omar had thought of his girlfriend, who lived across the street; he had summoned his strength to get up and try to reach her, feeling his way out of the house with his hands. 

Friends of the brothers had heard Fouad’s messages and were scrambling to help find Omar. The first to make it to the devastated site saw a familiar figure outside the house. Omar had made it down four flights of stairs, found a pair of slippers somewhere, and managed to walk a few metres from the house.

“Our friend found my brother sitting down in the street,” Fouad said. “He threw him in the back of the van and he called me to ask where he should take him, because the hospitals were completely full.”

The family were lucky. Fouad’s fiancee’s father was a gynaecologist with a clinic in the mountains. The doctor summoned his nursing staff and told them to start preparing for Omar’s arrival.

In the back of the van, Omar was barely conscious for the journey. But he could still glean some details, Tilda says. (Omar was still recovering and could not be interviewed for this story.) “They told him in the car, your father is asking after you,” Tilda says. “Automatically, Omar said, my mother is hurt. Because why else would they say ‘your father’, and not ‘your parents’?”

Across Beirut, people had answered the call of the blast, and swarmed the port area trying to help. One was a young man on a scooter from the western neighbourhood of Verdun, who found Jean-Paul outside the second overwhelmed hospital he had been turned away from that night, in real fear now that he might bleed to death in the streets. He ferried him to another, larger medical centre.

Another was a doctor from central Beirut’s Makassed hospital, who had heard the blast as she was driving from her shift, and headed straight towards the sound. She picked up Jean-Paul’s mother, who led her to Jean-Paul in a jammed waiting room in the third hospital. “There were so many old people who were wounded, every metre of the hospital there was someone sitting on the floor, all bleeding,” he says.

The doctor saw Jean-Paul needed urgent treatment, and took him to her own hospital. There, more than two hours after the blast, he finally had the cuts on his forehead, ear and wrist stapled.

At about 9.30pm, Tilda reached the Mt Lebanon hospital, where her son Omar was receiving 160 stitches, including over a bone-deep wound on his forehead. “When I saw him, I fainted,” Tilda said. “People had been telling me he was OK, but when I saw him, I saw they were lying to me.”

She finally allowed doctors to treat what they told her was a severe head wound. “That was when I felt like I finally woke up,” she said, pausing for a moment. “Like waking up from hell.”

Mousa was given shoes by a passerby outside his hotel, and picked up by someone else and taken to a hospital, where he received treatment for the cuts on his feet and told to get some rest. He still had no idea what had happened in Beirut until he opened his social media that night and saw videos of the explosion at the port.

He went back to his hotel room the next day to collect his belongings. He was astounded at the state of the room he had run from unharmed. “The thing I think about most is, I could’ve died in that moment – with any piece of glass in my neck or eyes or wherever,” he says. “I lived in a moment where others died.”

The death toll from the blast has exceeded 200, with some of the more than 6,500 injured dying from their wounds in the months since. A preliminary estimate from the University of Sheffield says the blast was one-twentieth the size of that unleashed by the nuclear bomb dropped on Hiroshima.

Neither Tilda and her family, nor Jean-Paul or anyone profiled in this story have received compensation from a 100bn Lebanese pound rebuilding package unveiled by the government. The fund is worth around $13m at the market rate, far less than what is required to repair the estimated 80,000 homes and buildings damaged.

Nobody has been charged over the ammonium nitrate, which subsequent investigations have shown was flagged as a threat repeatedly, including in the weeks leading up to the blast.

Jean-Paul and his mother have fully recovered and their house has been repaired.

The Wakim family’s showroom is slowly being rebuilt with the assistance of Miele, the German company whose products they stock. With one difference: the glass facades of the former showroom will be replaced with metal sheeting. “We’ve been told the situation is not getting better, so we need to protect what’s left of the showroom,” Tilda says.

She says the Lebanese are used to rebuilding, but this time feels different. “We don’t have that feeling of being safe at home anymore,” she says. “Death feels like it’s just underneath your feet, it’s very near you.”

Mousa has left Beirut and is unsure if he will ever return permanently. Maya says she was certain she would finally leave after the blast, but not anymore. “Whenever I listen to the music of [the Lebanese singer] Fairouz, her song For Beirut,” she says. “I think, no, I can’t leave my house, my memories, my childhood. There is no way.”





No.36 article:
People sought shelter on higher ground due to flash floods on Thursday, and have been asked to move to evacuation centres in the capital, Manila, despite fears of the spread of Covid-19.

Vamco is the 21st such storm to hit the Philippines this year, following close after Super typhoon Goni which devastated the east of the nation in early November





No.37 article:
Washington accuses Beijing of ‘flagrant violation’ of commitments and says one party, two systems ideal is ‘now merely a fig leaf’

Hong Kong and Chinese officials could face further sanctions from the United States over a new law that disqualified four pro-democracy legislators as “unpatriotic” and prompted a mass resignation by the pro-democracy caucus.

The measure, passed by China’s highest legislative body on Wednesday, bars anyone from Hong Kong’s legislative council who supports independence, opposes the national security law, refuses to recognise Beijing’s sovereignty over Hong Kong, seeks help from “foreign countries or foreign forces to interfere in the affairs of the region” or commits “other acts that endanger national security”.

Official statements said Hong Kong had to be “governed by patriots.”

The measure was immediately used to disqualify four legislators who had been banned from contesting the next election – controversially postponed until next year – because they promised to block government legislation if they won a majority. Fellow pro-democracy legislators announced they would formally resign in protest.

The US national security advisor, Robert O’Brien, accused China of having “flagrantly violated” its international commitments, and threatened further sanctions on “those responsible for extinguishing Hong Kong’s freedom”.

“‘One country, two systems’ is now merely a fig leaf covering for the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party] expanding one-party dictatorship in Hong Kong,” he said.

US Republican senator, Marco Rubio, and Democrat senator, Jeff Merkley, both members of the US Senate committee on foreign relations, said democracy was “gasping for air” in Hong Kong and “there will be consequences”.

“China’s unelected and unaccountable national people’s congress standing committee took another grave step toward stripping the people of Hong Kong of their sacred rights and freedoms,” they said in a statement.

“It is critical that the United States and all allies of freedom come together to recognise and condemn the undeniable and far reaching ramifications of this authoritarian power grab, which has wiped out what little remained of Hong Kong’s democratic political system and violates China’s treaty obligations.”

Governments in Germany and Australia also condemned China’s move, with Australia’s foreign affairs minister, Marise Payne, calling on the Legislative Council to “fulfil its role as the primary forum for popular political expression”.

“Beijing’s disqualification of duly elected Legislative Council lawmakers seriously undermines Hong Kong’s democratic processes and institutions, as well as the high degree of autonomy set out in the Basic Law and Sino-British joint declaration,” said Payne.

The UK’s foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said the removal of the pro-democracy legislators represented “a further assault on Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy and freedoms” under the joint declaration.

The 15 legislators began to formally resign on Thursday but the chief executive of Hong Kong, Carrie Lam, was unmoved by the resignation threat, telling media: “We are more excited when bills are passed more efficiently [without an opposition]”.

On Thursday morning, legislator Lam Cheuk Ting unfurled a protest banner inside the parliamentary building which said: “Carrie Lam has brought disaster to Hong Kong and its people, Carrie Lam will stink for 10,000 years.”

Lam also posted on social media calling for unity in the democratic camp.

“Today, some people may feel discouraged and sad, thinking that this battle is over, but we must firmly believe that even if the night is long, the light will always come,” he said. “As long as we persist, there is hope. History tells us that in the face of dictatorship, victory ultimately belongs to the people.”

Claudia Mo, a former journalist and vocal member of the camp, wore a black shirt and carried a yellow umbrella in a show of support for the 2014 and 2019 protest movements as she delivered her resignation.

“[I am] relieved in the sense that the council, at the moment, is very painful to deal with because it’s so full of fake speeches and so full of fake sincerity,” she told media. “The pro-Beijing types will just pass anything that the government wants to pass... I keep saying, it’s okay to lose but it’s not okay to quit. We are quitting the legislature only at this juncture, we are not quitting Hong Kong’s democracy fight.”

Beijing’s representative body, the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs office, dismissed the resignations as a miscalculated “farce”, and Chinese state media hailed the disqualification measure as a “long overdue” step towards “the return of peace and prosperity”.

“Those ... who fancy that they can continue to act as pawns of external forces in the city’s legislature should wake up to the reality that the days when they could act with impunity are gone,” said the China Daily, the country’s official English language newspaper.

The vice chair of Hong Kong’s basic law committee, Maria Tam, told RTHK the four expelled legislators could still appeal the decision, but it was unlikely to be successful because NPC standing committee decisions were “unchallengeable”.

The disqualifications are the latest escalation in Beijing’s grab for further control of Hong Kong, which was promised a high degree of autonomy until 2047 but instead has been subjected to a widespread crackdown on dissent, opposition, and press freedom, after mass pro-democracy protests last year.





No.38 article:
Thursday briefing: No 10 feuding explodes into open as top aide quits

Lee Cain resigns after row over chief of staff job … extra day’s holiday for Queen’s jubilee … Kimberlé Crenshaw, the anti-discrimination groundbreaker

by  Warren Murray

Hello, I’m Warren Murray – another Thursday morning, another carefully selected blend of news to help you get up to speed quickly.

Lee Cain, one of Boris Johnson’s top advisers, has quit No 10 within hours of being tipped for promotion as the prime minister’s chief of staff. Differences with Carrie Symonds, the PM’s fiancee, are said to have been a factor in his departure. The director of communications’ possible elevation is said to have sparked bitter infighting in the PM’s office. Critics of the government have repeatedly cited how tensions between senior members of Johnson’s team – and his refusal to sack Dominic Cummings earlier this year – have hindered the country’s efforts to get on top of the pandemic.

Cain, 39, was regarded as one of Johnson’s most loyal and low-key longstanding staffers. Friends indicated that Cain had clashed with the incoming Downing Street spokeswoman Allegra Stratton. A number of Conservative MPs expressed delight at the row. One said they would be “over the moon” if Dominic Cummings also departed – he worked with Cain on the Vote Leave campaign. Another said it was “a chance to get the old Boris back and out of the grip of these people”.

One senior MP signalled hope that a battle for influence with the prime minister was being slowly won by Symonds and her allies, rather than Cummings. “Boris must take this chance to pivot back to being the liberal unifier, sack a chunk of these cabinet no-hopers and start a new team.” A Labour spokesperson said: “On the day the UK became the first country in Europe to report 50,000 coronavirus deaths and the public endure another lockdown, Boris Johnson’s government is fighting like rats in a sack over who gets what job.” James Slack, the prime minister’s official spokesman and the former political editor of the Daily Mail, is set to take over as director of communications.

‘Fig leaf’ – Chinese officials could face further sanctions after the Communist party had four lawmakers disqualified as “unpatriotic” from Hong Kong’s legislature – prompting a mass resignation by their fellow pro-democracy MPs. The UK’s foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said Beijing had carried out “a further assault” on Hong Kong’s freedoms that were granted under the handover deal when Britain handed back the territory. The US national security adviser, Robert O’Brien, said China had “flagrantly violated its international commitments … ‘one country, two systems’ is now merely a fig leaf covering for the CCP’s [Chinese Communist party] expanding one-party dictatorship in Hong Kong”.

Next president gets on with job – Joe Biden is making good on his promise to begin the transition with or without the help of the Trump administration. The president-elect has named his chief of staff: Ron Klain, whom Biden has worked with from the 1980s including during Barack Obama’s presidency. Pressure is increasing on Trump to concede defeat with several Republican governors among those condemning his behaviour. The election loser has laid a wreath at Arlington national cemetery for Veterans Day – the only thing he appears to have done in a week apart from pay a visit to his golf club and tweet out unfounded election fraud claims. Could the president cling on via some sort of constitutional coup? Unlikely …

Nurse accused of eight baby murders – A nurse is due in court today charged with eight counts of murder and 10 of attempted murder following an investigation into baby deaths at the Countess of Chester hospital neonatal unit. Police said Lucy Letby, 30, would appear at Warrington magistrates court to face the charges, relating to the period from June 2015 to June 2016. Letby was arrested for a third time on Tuesday as part of an investigation that began in 2017.

Getting reunion visas ‘too dangerous’ – Children and adults are being forced to navigate war zones, risk sexual violence or imprisonment and pay smugglers so they can exercise their right to a family reunion visa to enter the UK, the Red Cross has said. The paperwork must be lodged in person and getting to Home Office-run visa access centres (VACs) in countries presents serious dangers in countries like Eritrea, Sudan, Iran and Syria. The Red Cross says people should be able to submit their paperwork online and only have to travel to a VAC to receive their visa once approved. The Home Office says it needs to collect applicants’ biometric data and do safety checks.

God save the date – Britain is set to be treated with an extra day off in 2022 to mark the Queen reaching 70 years on the throne. The May bank holiday weekend will instead run for four days from Thursday 2 June 2022 to allow for what is being billed as a “blockbuster” celebration of the platinum jubilee. Following a tradition stretching back to the reign of Queen Victoria, a platinum jubilee medal will be awarded to people working in public service, such as armed forces personnel and those in the emergency services.

Karen Ward and Karen Cotter live in the town of Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania. There is one thing on which they really don’t agree: politics, and in particular, Donald Trump. Despite everything that sets them apart, these two women have become close friends and believe there is a way to heal the political rift that has torn apart so many communities in the past four years.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/11-79877-20201112_TIF_Karens.mp3 

Kimberlé Crenshaw, a lawyer and one of the most influential black feminist legal theorists in the US, founded “intersectionality” – the idea that different forms of discrimination, such as sexism and racism, can overlap and compound each other. From police brutality to sexual harassment, she fights to ensure black women’s experiences are not ignored. So why are her ideas being denounced?

Ninety-two hopefuls will line up for the Masters at Augusta with the sport of golf edgy over what will transpire if Bryson DeChambeau shows this iconic course can be dismantled by power. Gareth Southgate says that Greg Clarke had no alternative but to resign from his position as the FA’s chairman after making remarks that were “not acceptable” on Tuesday. Joe Gomez has suffered an injury at St George’s Park in the preparations for today’s England friendly with the Republic of Ireland at Wembley.

Professional female footballers have been left in the dark during the pandemic, with players’ unions in 47 countries – 69% – reporting that communication from clubs and leagues has been poor or very poor. The former captain Dylan Hartley was a surprise addition to England’s training bubble on Wednesday as Eddie Jones’s side ramped up preparations for their Autumn Nations Cup opener against “brutal” Georgia. Wales sacked their defence coach, Byron Hayward, after a first home defeat to Scotland for 18 years on Halloween, but of the players who started in Llanelli that afternoon 14 have kept their places for Friday’s Autumn Nations Cup opener against Ireland in Dublin. And British Cycling has sacked the coach entrusted with helping Jason Kenny become Britain’s most successful Olympian in Tokyo next year for gross misconduct after “repeated warnings that his behaviours fell short of the standards expected”.

Britain’s low- and middle-income households are “sleepwalking into a debt crisis” after a steep rise in emergency borrowing to cope with the Covid-driven recession. The debt charity Stepchange found that household borrowing and arrears linked to the coronavirus pandemic have soared 66% since May to £10.3bn. The number of people who are in severe debt has nearly doubled to 1.2 million since March. The FTSE 100 is set to tumble 1% when it opens later this morning. The pound is on $1.321 and €1.122.

The third-edition splash in the Guardian is “Downing Street in turmoil after key Johnson adviser steps down”. Our earlier front-page lead was the government admitting that millions may get vaccines that are less effective if they prove more speedily available than the most promising versions. The Telegraph has “PM’s adviser quits in No 10 power battle” and in the Times it’s done as “Brexiteer quits No 10 after power struggle”.

“For pity’s sake, just let them hold hands” – the Mail campaigns for Christmas family reunions for care home residents, while “Meltdown at No 10” is a puff across the top, with a picture implicating Carrie Symonds in Cain’s departure (“Carried away” could have been a starter there, oh well). “Vaccine safe enough for my mum” says the Mirror, a sentiment expressed by Jonathan Van-Tam, the deputy chief medical officer. In a dubious move the Metro goes with “Van-Tam: jab for mam”.

The i has more Van-Tam advice: “Save vaccines for the NHS” – he said they should be distributed based on need and not sold privately, so the wealthy can’t jump the queue. The Sun put some words about TV celebrities in a bag, shook it and this headline fell out: “The only Wales is Essex”. The Financial Times has a story we’ve covered here: “Sunak review targets increase in capital gains tax to boost coffers”. Phrases like “review targets” and “boost coffers” are probably on keyboard shortcuts over at the FT.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.39 article:
Aid groups unable to supply Ethiopia&#x27;s Tigray region, UN warns

Agency says telephone links are still down in the conflict-torn region, putting women, children and the elderly at risk

Aid agencies are unable to restock food, health and other emergency supplies to Ethiopia’s conflict-torn northern Tigray region and it may trigger a refugee crisis, the United Nations has warned.

The country’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, embarked on a military campaign against the regional ruling group, the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, last week after accusing them of attacking a federal military base.

Telephone lines to the region were still down, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) said in its latest report on the crisis.

“Transport is not allowed to and from Tigray, as a result of which shortages of basic commodities are reportedly appearing, impacting the most vulnerable first and the most,” UN OCHA said.

Aid groups were also concerned about the protection of children, women, the elderly and the disabled, from the military clashes, UN OCHA said.

The United Nations agency for refugees said it was worried about a refugee emergency if more civilians are forced to flee the fighting.

The UN is negotiating with both sides in the conflict for humanitarian corridors to be opened, Ann Encontre, UNHCR’s representative in Ethiopia, told Reuters in an interview.

Sudan has received more than 10,000 Ethiopian refugees since the fighting started, the Sudanese government said on Wednesday.

Abiy, who at 44 is Africa’s youngest leader, has so far resisted calls by the United Nations, the African Union and others for an immediate ceasefire and negotiations.

There are widespread concerns that the fighting in Tigray could spread to other parts of Africa’s second-most-populous country, and to the rest of Horn of Africa region.

Amhara regional state, which neighbours Tigray and has been backing Abiy, called off planned demonstrations against the Tigrayan ruling party.

“The protest is not timely due to current security concerns,” said the state’s communication office in a statement.





No.40 article:
Workers in centre of city are asked to work from home on Friday after student with no obvious links to areas of risk, tests positive 

Health authorities in New Zealand are partially shutting down the central city of Auckland on Friday, asking workers in the city to stay home as they try to trace how a student became infected with Covid-19.

“Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking people who work in downtown Auckland to work from home tomorrow where possible,” Covid-19 minister Chris Hipkins said. The number of workers in Auckland central business district instructed to stay home on Friday is 100,000.

“If you must go into this area, please use masks and social distancing while health authorities continue work to trace the source of this infection.”

The mystery case, a female university student, is concerning as authorities say she has no links to areas of risk like the border.

The woman took the test late on Tuesday and was told by health authorities to stay home until she had her results. But on Wednesday she went to work wearing a mask , in a customer-facing role.

“We now know that this case called in sick to work after receiving the advice to isolate, but after a conversation with their manager went to work and wore a mask,” the ministry of health said.

The woman’s test came back positive on Thursday. She has been moved to a quarantine facility but there is still no concrete information on the source of infection, despite multiple interviews with her. Two of the woman’s friends have also been moved to quarantine, despite feeling well.

While infectious the student also took a number of Uber rides and visited four CBD restaurants and cafes for food and takeaways, as well as one of New Zealand’s major department stores, Smith &amp; Caughey’s.

Residents at the apartment block where the woman lives have been asked to isolate and a mobile testing unit was on site, with all common areas closed. The block is next door to a managed quarantine isolation facility.

Auckland mayor Phil Goff called the latest case “not great”.

The director-general of health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, said urgent genome testing was under way and Aucklanders should remain vigilant with their protection efforts, including not going to work if they felt ill, and wearing masks on public transport and in public places.

The student had not visited university or attended lectures since mid-October.

“We are urgently working to trace this person’s movements over the past week to determine how they became infected,” Bloomfield said.

“Genome testing of this case is also underway to help us understand any potential links to previous cases.”

Hipkins asked Aucklanders not to panic, saying health authorities were taking a “calm and methodical response”.

In August Auckland entered a second three-week lockdown after a cluster of more than 100 infected people developed in the city’s south. Auckland is New Zealand’s largest city and home to 1.7 million people.

Lesley Gray, a senior lecturer in health at the University of Otago, said she had noticed New Zealanders becoming complacent towards protecting themselves and others from the virus. “From what information we have available about the Auckland community case it seems a little troubling that there is no obvious links to earlier cases,” Gray said.

“I was travelling [between Wellington and Christchurch] earlier this week and it was very interesting to note minimal use of the hand sanitisers placed in many public areas, little apparent scans or check-ins with the Covid tracer app at the airport, and I only saw one person mask-wearing.”

Fewer than 2,000 people have become infected with Covid-19 in New Zealand while 25 have died. The results of the government’s elimination strategy and hardline border policies have been praised around the world, and the freedom New Zealanders enjoy is envied. Sporting matches, concerts and eating and drinking out are all possible, and the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has resisted lobbying by Australia and some Pacific nations to open the borders.

Infectious disease experts have praised New Zealand’s response, though some have noted the borders remain a risky area and their management has not always been best-practice.





No.41 article:
Texas becomes first to record a million cases as a state as experts warn White House appears to be doing little to control pandemic

The US has recorded more than 1m new coronavirus cases in just the past 10 days as the national total soared past 10m cases amid a widespread surge – while Texas on Wednesday became the first to record a million cases as a state.

The soaring figures came as the US also recorded its highest single-day total of new cases, and experts warned that even though successful vaccines are coming into view the White House appears to be doing little to contain a pandemic increasingly out of control.

“In the last couple of months you have seen the federal government basically throw in the towel,” Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health told NBC on Wednesday morning.

He added: “There’s been no new guidance, very little effort coming from the federal government and I think that is definitely contributing to a nationwide surge.”

Daily cases for the country have steadily climbed throughout November to record a total of 1,129,463 cases in the last 10 days alone, figures from Johns Hopkins University show.

On Wednesday, the US saw a record 136,325 new cases, according to Johns Hopkins.

Meanwhile, Texas, America’s second-most populous state, has recorded 1,010,364 cases since the start of the pandemic in March and 19,337 deaths.

No other state has alone reached the 1m figure. And New York, which was the worst Covid-19 hotspot in the world during the initial cascade of US cases in the spring, then used restrictions to squash infections, is now seeing rates creeping up again.

On Wednesday afternoon, New York’s governor, Andrew Cuomo, said all restaurants, bars and gyms will have to close at 10pm across the state in the latest effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus. He added that people will be barred from hosting private gatherings with more than 10 people, when the new restrictions go into effect on Friday.

Speaking earlier, Jha said “people are getting tired” of taking precautions, even as warnings abound about family gatherings in the fast-approaching holiday season becoming spreader events.

He added that with what appears to be the good news that the world is on the cusp of approving successful vaccines, all Americans could expect to be inoculated relatively soon.

“We are about three to six months away from widespread availability of a vaccine, people need to hold on … we’re so close to actually turning the corner on the virus,” he said.

But he warned that in the meantime Americans need to restrict their Thanksgiving plans at the end of November. “This is a bit heartbreaking, because it just can’t be a normal Thanksgiving,” he said.

On Tuesday there were 111,433 new cases and 590 deaths in the US, according to data from Johns Hopkins. This brings total cases for the country up to 10,252,129 and overall death toll to 239,671.

Hospitalisations also reached record highs. According to the Covid Tracking Project, a record 62,000 people were hospitalised on Tuesday and 17 states reported single day records for hospitalisations.

Joe Biden has already warned the US is “facing a very dark winter” and that even with Pfizer’s announcement that it has a vaccine it believes is 90% effective, 200,000 more lives could be lost in the US in the next few months.

Experts say cases could rise exponentially in the coming weeks. Michael Osterholm, director of the Centre for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of the president-elect’s Covid-19 advisory board, told CNN daily cases could soon double.

“We are watching cases increase substantially in this country far beyond, I think, what most people ever thought could happen,” he said, adding: “It will not surprise me if in the next weeks we see over 200,000 new cases a day.”

Meanwhile, Donald Trump has not made any public comments in almost a week and was golfing at the weekend while his top public health expert, who serves on the White House coronavirus taskforce, Dr Anthony Fauci, said he has not spoken to Trump since the president had coronavirus himself and was in hospital early last month.

Trump has been complaining baselessly about a fraudulent election on Twitter and his only public outings since Biden was declared the election winner on Saturday morning have been to the golf course.

On Wednesday, he attended an event to honor fallen soldiers at Arlington National Cemetery just outside Washington DC, despite accounts in September that he had previously called fallen and captured US service members “losers” and “suckers”.

By this week, Texas had surpassed California, which as of Tuesday had 989,432 cases, to record the highest number of positive coronavirus tests of any US state.

If it were a country, the state would be ranked 10th in the world for recorded cases, CNN reported.

In El Paso, on the Texas-Mexico border, mobile morgues have had to be brought in and field hospitals set up as hospitals are inundated with patients.

El Paso has 1,076 people hospitalised – more coronavirus patients in hospital than most states.

“We discharge one patient, and there are two that come in,” said Wanda Helgesen, executive director of regional advisory council BorderRAC, told the New York Times.

Illinois’ governor, JB Pritzker, implored people to wear a mask and not to gather in private homes, saying his state is “locked in a struggle” with Covid-19.

“I know many of us hoped not to still be fighting this deadly pandemic nine months after it revealed itself. But as winter approaches, we are locked in a struggle with the virus,” he tweeted.





No.42 article:
Outrage after Beijing imposes new law allowing disqualification of ‘unpatriotic’ legislators

Hong Kong has plunged further into crisis as a new law imposed by Beijing allowing the disqualification of “unpatriotic” opposition members prompted the entire pro-democracy caucus to announce their resignation.

Four sitting legislators were disqualified with immediate effect, with the move heralded as the end of political opposition in the city and “the death-knell of Hong Kong’s democracy fight”.

The measure, passed by China’s highest legislative body on Wednesday, bars anyone from Hong Kong’s legislative council who supports independence, refuses to recognise Beijing’s sovereignty over Hong Kong, seeks help from “foreign countries or foreign forces to interfere in the affairs of the region” or commits “other acts that endanger national security”.

Minutes after the disqualifying legislation was announced by Chinese state media, the Hong Kong government released a statement disqualifying four pro-democracy legislators. Among those were the Civic party’s Alvin Yeung, Kwok Ka-ki and Dennis Kwok and Kenneth Leung of the Professionals Guild, lawmakers who had already been barred from running in legislative elections originally scheduled for September.

Beijing officials welcomed the announcement. “The political rule that Hong Kong must be governed by patriots shall be firmly guarded,” the Hong Kong liaison office said.

On Wednesday afternoon, the remaining 15 pro-democracy legislators appeared before the press, holding hands and chanting “Hong Kong add oil, together we stand!” (add oil is a translation of a Chinese expression of encouragement), and announced they would hand in their resignation letters on Thursday.

“This is an actual act by Beijing to sound the death-knell of Hong Kong’s democracy fight,” said the legislator Claudia Mo. “From now on, anyone they find to be politically incorrect or unpatriotic or simply not likeable to look at – they can just oust you.”

The camp’s convenor, Wu Chi-wai, accused the government of destroying Hong Kong’s separation of powers and giving up on the mini-constitution, the basic law. He said it was the culmination of Beijing’s six-year-long plan to “extend their jurisdiction over Hong Kong completely”.

“As a result, we will say that ‘one country, two systems’ in Hong has come to an end.”

Small protests broke out on Wednesday evening, including one by Alexandra Wong, a prominent protester known as “Grandma Wong” who disappeared last year before returning in October claiming she had been detained in mainland China. Wong displayed protest signs in the streets of Mongkok and was quickly surrounded by police who reportedly accused her of “inappropriate behaviours in public”.

The US national security advisor, Robert O’Brien, accused China of having “flagrantly violated” its international commitments, and threatened further sanctions on “those responsible for extinguishing Hong Kong’s freedom”.

“‘One country, two systems’ is now merely a fig leaf covering for the CCP’s expanding one party dictatorship in Hong Kong,” he said.

Governments in Germany and Australia also condemned China’s move.

The UK Foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said the removal of the pro-democracy legislators represented “a further assault on Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy and freedoms under the UK-China Joint Declaration.”Lord Patten, the former Governor of Hong Kong, said it was “yet another example of the Chinese Communist party trampling on what is left of democracy in Hong Kong.”

Beijing’s resolution gives Hong Kong authorities the ability to bypass the court system to unseat lawmakers – a measure critics say will be used against opposition lawmakers voicing dissent over Beijing’s increased control over the semi-autonomous territory.

“We need to have a political body which is composed of patriots,” Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, told reporters.

“There are four legislators who have been deemed … to not genuinely swear to uphold the basic law and not to have genuinely pledged their allegiance to Hong Kong SAR [special administrative region],” she said.

Referring to the decision-making body of China’s legislature, Lam said the “National People’s Congress standing committee [NPCSC] has made the decision and merely asked the SAR Hong Kong government to make the announcement”, adding that her government would quickly amend its domestic laws to be in line with the decision.

Lam sought to distance the disqualifications from her government’s purportedly pandemic-related decision to postpone this year’s election.

She said the NPCSC had ruled that incumbent legislators could stay in their seat until the new election date, but that the renominations of these four had been deemed invalid, in part because of their campaign promises to block government legislation should the pro-democracy camp win a majority.

Lam also listed other “unacceptable acts”, including advocacy or promotion of Hong Kong self-determination or independence, soliciting foreign intervention, refusing to recognise Beijing’s exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, and expressing any in principle objection to the implementation of the national security law.

“Anyone engaging in any of these acts cannot possibly genuinely uphold the basic law, so they are unable to perform their duties as legislators,” said Lam.

Lam confirmed the breadth of the law, telling press: “For anyone who plans to run in future elections, this decision applies.”

 The legislative council is dominated by pro-Beijing lawmakers and the mass resignation of opposition figures – who had flagged their intentions earlier in the day – marked the end of one of Hong Kong’s last forums for open democratic debate.

But in her press conference, Lam said there was “nothing to be ashamed of” in facing a LegCo without an opposition. “We are more excited when bills are passed more efficiently,” she said.

In response, Wu said Lam “would pay a high price” for the efficiency she was looking for, because it called for the end of ‘one country, two systems’.

Speaking to reporters after the announcement, Leung said, according to public broadcaster RTHK: “This is a sad day, but it is also a glorious day for us all. Now, we are stepping down, however, there are more Hong Kong people with aspirations, with drive, with hope, with values, who can succeed us. And I’m sure they will continue to fight for the core values of Hong Kong.”

Kwok Ka-Ki said: “Today, ‘one country, two systems’ no longer exists. Anyone who made this decision has to answer to history and every one of the Hong Kong people.”

Dennis Kwok added: “If observing due process … fighting for democracy and human rights leads to the consequences of being disqualified then it would be my honour.”

The disqualifications come ahead of a delayed legislative election when pro-democracy lawmakers were expected to make major gains. After China imposed a sweeping and draconian national security law in July, the election originally scheduled for September was delayed. There have since been dozens of arrests and an unprecedented crackdown on free speech in a city known for its civil freedoms.

The latest legislation from Beijing adds to concern about Hong Kong’s autonomy as promised under the one country, two systems framework when Britain handed the former British colony to China in 1997. The US president-elect, Joe Biden, has promised to “fully enforce” legislation protecting democracy in Hong Kong, passed last year.

“Once again, Xi Jinping’s regime has demonstrated its total hostility to democratic accountability, and those who wish to stand up for it,” said Lord Chris Patten, the former governor of Hong Kong, and patron of advocacy group Hong Kong Watch patron.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former foreign secretary and also a patron of Hong Kong Watch “salute[d] the courage” of the resigning legislators.

“They are the giants. The Chinese government appears small.”

Calling the new resolution a “death sentence”, the Hong Kong Democracy Council said the legislative council would exist only as a “rubber-stamping” body.

“With today’s vote and the immediate disqualification of four opposition lawmakers, the CCP [Chinese Communist party] is telling the world that, not only do they fully control the chief executive and her administration, but they are now extending that absolute control over the legislature,” the group based in Washington said.

“There will be zero tolerance for opposition voices in this version of Hong Kong – in other words, no more opposition party in Hong Kong’s legislative body from now on.”

Hong Kong activists Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam face the prospect of jail after pleading guilty to charges relating to protests outside a police station last year





No.43 article:
Brazil health regulator allows resumption of China Covid vaccine trials

Testing was suspended after the death of a participant, but officials say it had no relation to the trials

Brazil’s health regulator has allowed resumption of late-stage clinical trials for China’s Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine, which had been suspended due to a study subject’s death that was registered in Sao Paulo as a suicide.

The Brazilian medical institute, Butantan, said in a statement it would restart trials later on Wednesday.

Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, a longtime China critic who has baselessly dismissed the Sinovac vaccine as lacking in credibility, had hailed Monday’s suspension as a personal victory.

Despite this, Bolsonaro reiterated on Wednesday evening that his government would purchase whatever vaccine was approved by Anvisa and the health ministry, which could ultimately include the Sinovac vaccine, if approved.

The decision to suspend the trial – one of Sinovac’s three large, late-stage studies – was criticised by the trial organisers, who said the move had taken them by surprise and that there had been no need to stop the study as the death had no relation to the vaccine.

The suspension further inflamed tensions between Bolsonaro and Sao Paulo’s governor, Joao Doria, who has pinned his political ambitions on the Chinese vaccine that he aims to roll out in his state as early as January, with or without federal assistance.

Anvisa, the regulator, said in its statement on Wednesday that the initial information it received about the case, which led to the suspension, had been incomplete and lacked the cause of the “severe adverse event”.

It has strongly dismissed suggestions the decision could have been politically motivated.

“After evaluating the new data presented by the sponsor ... Anvisa understands that it has sufficient reasons to allow the resumption of vaccination,” the agency said.

“It is important to clarify that a suspension does not necessarily mean that the product under investigation does not offer quality, safety or efficacy,” Anvisa added.

Sinovac, in a statement said: “We are confident in the safety of the vaccine, fully understand and appreciate Anvisa’s strict supervision and timely resumption of the clinical studies.”

Brazil has one of the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreaks, with more than 5.7m confirmed cases and 163,000 deaths related to the disease. Bolsonaro has come under fire for his constant dismissal of the virus and its dangers.

On Tuesday, Bolsonaro said Brazilians “must stop being sissies” about the virus, adding: “We are all going to die one day.”





No.44 article:
Stan Walker&#x27;s &#x27;impossible&#x27; story from horrifying childhood to fame and forgiveness

• Warning: this article includes details some readers may find disturbing

Māori singer and actor tells all in his book about his rise from poverty and abuse to healing and acceptance 

• Warning: this article includes details some readers may find disturbing

It is the day of his much-anticipated book release and Māori superstar Stan Walker is celebrating with a glass of red wine in the garage.

Not the fanfare you might expect for the release of his first book, but Walker says he never throws launch parties for anything. A hark back to his past perhaps – to a little boy who felt he was never allowed to be excited about his achievements or celebrate anything.

His autobiography, Impossible: My Story, tells the story of Walker’s horrific upbringing in Aotearoa – a childhood entrenched in violence, manipulation, and sexual abuse.

From as far back as he can remember, he endured beatings so regular and so severe, his bones were broken. The 30-year-old still bears the scars all over his body to remind him.

“We were brought up in a very hostile household,” he said. “If my dad was there – it was shut your mouth – be still.”

Stan sits back and scans the room. “Look in the garage right now. I think about what he would have used as a weapon.”

A portable wardrobe made of metal poles catches his eye. “He would get that whole thing and smash it on me.

“That broom there – that’s nothing. He would chuck that little desk at me. He would chuck the TV at me. If I made him that pissed off, he would pick up this glass table and smash it on me.”

Walker shot to fame in Aotearoa after winning Australian Idol in 2009. Since then, he has become a household name. The actor and award-winning singer has opened for international pop stars Nicki Minaj, and his idol, Beyonce.

He is affable, genuine, and content. But growing up, he said he was always scared.

Stan was raised in the Bay of Plenty, with his mum and dad and siblings. He loved being with his whānau (family). But their home life was a toxic mix of poverty, alcohol and drugs.

One of his nicest memories growing up was eating homemade chips and tomato sauce with his brothers.

“That was probably one of the best memories I had as a whānau in my house. Every other memory was being smashed up.”

Stan’s father was an alcoholic, drug addict and dealer, who beat his wife and children often.

“It was normal that your head is in the corner of the room. Your dad is stomping on your head. That was normal.

“It was always like that ... It just went from zero to hero really quick.”

But at eight-years old, things got even worse. A teenage relative began preying on him and for nine-months, he would rape and molest him at every chance he got.

“I thought that was my big brother, now becomes my rapist.”

He said the mental abuse took the biggest toll on his life, driving him to be suicidal.

“Can you imagine making an eight-year-old feel like it’s his fault, to the point that he feels like a creature?

“Making him feel like it is his doing as an eight-year-old, to the point that he feels like an abomination. For my whole life, I had to live with that.”

New Zealand has one of the worst child abuse statistics in the developed world. On average, one child dies every five weeks from violence in Aotearoa.

Figures show one in three girls, and one in seven boys, may be sexually abused before they reach adulthood.

Māori, the indigenous people of Aotearoa, are more likely to deal with both in their lifetime.

Walker said violence and sexual abuse is an insidious problem in many families, but it is not addressed because people do not want to talk about it, instead sweeping it under the rug.

He believes the scale of the problem for Māori is the result of intergenerational trauma, which stems from the loss of lands and culture forced upon Māori by colonisation.

Walker’s father was beaten. His father’s mother was beaten. But he refuses to continue to pattern.

By his mid-teens, Walker and his family were back living in Australia where they joined the church. The result was transformational.

Slowly, his father has turned his life around. And, through God, he said he found the will to forgive, not only others – but himself.

“I didn’t understand that I was not responsible until I did this book – and I was like damn, these kids are going to grow up thinking that they are partly responsible or responsible because of the manipulation that has happened.”

For the acclaimed singer, speaking out sends a message that victims can still achieve their dreams. And they can find peace.

“The reason why I do what I do, why I expose myself, is because I am free, and I want to see other people free.

“I want people to be liberated – to be hopeful that the best is yet to come – even if they are in the hell of their life – it is a season and seasons have to come to an end.”

In November, Walker will begin a nationwide tour to promote his book. The sessions will be an intimate mix of discussions about his life and performing acoustic renditions of his songs.

The message will be one of forgiveness and hope. Stan and his father have mended their relationship and the family unit is strong.

“I really love my dad,” he said. “I have no resentment towards my whānau. I have accepted who I am. I have healed through everything. But I want to share my story.”

• In New Zealand the crisis support service Lifeline is www.lifeline.org.nz or 0800 543 354. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.org or jo@samaritans.ie. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. Other international helplines can be found at www.befrienders.org.





No.45 article:
Abingdon Health claimed test was 99% accurate but PHE puts its real-world accuracy at 84.7%

A finger-prick test for Covid-19 antibodies being bought by the government is considerably less accurate than claimed by the company that makes it, a formal evaluation by Public Health England has found.

On 6 October the health minister James Bethell announced the government had bought 1m of the tests, even though the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) had by then seen the evaluation report from PHE.

Abingdon Health, the company making the test, claimed it was 99% accurate. But a PHE report, published on Thursday in the British Medical Journal (BMJ), says the test can confirm 92.5% of cases already known to be positive. But in real-world conditions, the accuracy falls to 84.7%.

It means that if 10% of people given the test had previously been infected, about one in five positive test results would be incorrect, ie false positive results.

The department says the tests are still useful for surveillance – finding out what proportion of communities have been infected with the virus in the past. In an editorial in the BMJ, two experts, Dipender Gill from Imperial College London and Mark J Ponsford from Cardiff University, said the company had overestimated the test’s accuracy due to the manner in which its trials were carried out and that it should not be widely used.

The PHE study “identifies notable limitations of the UK government’s antibody test of choice and provides good evidence that its specificity in a ‘real life’ setting is highly unlikely to be 100%. Apart from limited surveillance to estimate the proportion of a population that has been infected, widespread use of this assay in any other role could risk considerable harm,” they write.Emails seen by the Guardian show that the DHSC blocked online publication of the results at the time of the ministerial announcement. PHE said there were “significant risks” to delaying publication because the findings were out of line with the claimed accuracy of the tests.

DHSC officials denied they blocked publication, saying they preferred to go down the route of peer review.

The PHE assessment is acutely embarrassing for ministers who put together a British consortium to make an antibody test for the UK in the spring, with Abingdon Health in the lead. Also in the consortium was Oxford University. Sir John Bell, regius professor of medicine at Oxford and the government’s life science adviser, helped put the consortium together, although he played no part in the development or assessment of the test.

Lawyers for the Good Law Project have filed proceedings against the government over the awarding of two contracts for the antibody tests to Abingdon Health without putting them out to tender. One was worth £10m and the other up to £75m.

The government cited a need for urgency because of the pandemic – it was developed after the failure of Chinese antibody tests bought by the health secretary, Matt Hancock, in the spring. But the lawyers argue that other tests existed at the time. They also say the government failed to ensure the tests were of high enough quality before agreeing the deals.

Emails seen by the Guardian show a discussion between the DHSC and PHE about the handling of Lord Bethell’s announcement on 6 October that the government had bought 1m tests from the consortium.

PHE staff said there were “significant risks” in not publishing the evaluation showing the low accuracy of the tests at the same time as the announcement. The Guardian was already asking for the data, it pointed out, having run stories questioning the claim by the company that the tests were 99.4% accurate.

In an email, PHE asked whether this strategy had been agreed. “Is everyone aligned on the handling – ministers, spads etc?” it asked.

The reply from the DHSC ran: “Yes everyone is aligned as far as I know. L Bethell aligned, No 10 now aligned.”

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

PHE had suggested the evaluation could be published online at the same time as the announcement as a preprint, the emails reveal. But this was blocked by the DHSC. PHE’s team therefore submitted it to the peer-reviewed BMJ, beginning a process that would take weeks.

The DHSC said the plan was for “minimal mention” of the PHE study in Bethell’s announcement, “but we do need to mention it as we will get asked”. In a further email it suggested a way to deal with questions as to where the results of the study were: “If asked tomorrow, we can say that we’ve submitted to BMJ for peer review so we are being transparent.”

The DHSC said it was inaccurate to say it delayed publication, pointing out that the PHE evaluation was sent to the BMJ for peer review in early October in line with standard procedure for academic reports.

Two government contracts were awarded to the consortium, according to documents in the public domain. The first, in June, was for the consortium to buy components for making the tests and was worth £10m. The second was in August and gave the government an option to buy the tests, worth £75m.

In March, there were high hopes for antibody tests, commonly described as potential gamechangers. Ministers and their advisers envisioned the tests being dispatched to people at home by Amazon or bought on the high street. The expectation was that individuals could find out if they had had coronavirus and were immune. There was talk of giving those who tested positive “immunity passports” to allow them greater freedoms, on the assumption they were no longer at risk of infection. It is now widely accepted that antibodies fade and do not necessarily confer immunity from Covid-19.

In his announcement last month, Bethell said: “Home testing is a powerful tool in understanding the disease and fighting its spread. So we are thrilled by the RTC [Rapid Test Consortium] product, both for Britain and export markets around the world.”

The tests developed and made by British companies “demonstrate how, supported by government investment, the UK diagnostics industry is leading on the global stage in our efforts to tackle Covid-19”, said the release.

The DHSC said in a statement: “The antibody test has been evaluated by PHE and this evaluation will be published in due course. This [PHE] report shows these tests are approved for use in surveillance studies, which is what they were purchased for.

“They were never intended for, and have never been issued for, widespread public use and it is misleading and unnecessarily inflammatory to purposefully ignore this fact in the report. This robust evaluation was carried out by PHE at the department’s request before any purchase was made, and PHE approved the test for use in surveillance studies.”

Abingdon Health declined to comment, saying questions were best answered by the DHSC, which was happy with the test.





No.46 article:
UK family reunion visa system puts lives at risk, says Red Cross

Exclusive: charity says families forced to cross war zones and pay smugglers to get paperwork

Children and adults are being forced to navigate war zones, risk sexual violence or imprisonment, and pay smugglers to reach a place where UK visa paperwork can be processed by officials acting for the Home Office, a charity has said.

When a person has successfully claimed asylum and been granted refugee status in the UK, they are legally entitled to be reunited with immediate relatives through a family reunion visa.

Family members overseas must access a UK embassy or visa application centre to complete submission of an application and return later to learn the outcome.

In a report, the British Red Cross concludes that instead of the process providing a safe route to reunion it puts too many people in danger.

Naomi Phillips, the director of policy and advocacy at the British Red Cross, said: “Our report shows that in too many cases children and adults are forced to navigate war zones, flee sexual violence, hide for fear of imprisonment or abuse, and are even forced to pay smugglers. This is just to reach the place where their paperwork can be processed by officials acting for the Home Office.

“It doesn’t have to be this way. There are some simple changes that could be made to make the family reunion process safer, such as only asking people to travel to where their application is processed after they have had a positive decision, from paperwork submitted online. By actioning these, the Home Office will reduce or stop people having to make multiple, dangerous, journeys.

“The home secretary recently outlined the urgent need for compassionate asylum reform, including the need for more safe routes to be introduced. We agree, but our report, The Long Road to Reunion, also shows that the existing ‘safe’ and legal route of refugee family reunion needs attention as it is unnecessarily putting lives at risk.”

In the year ending June 2020, the government issued 6,320 refugee family reunion visas and has issued more than 29,000 in the last five years.

After speaking to 100 families, the charity estimated that nearly half of them said the process, involving providing documents and personal information such as fingerprints, exposed them to risks.

In 2019, almost two-thirds of refugee family reunion visas in the UK were granted to relatives from Eritrea, Sudan, Iran and Syria, all countries where getting to visa application centres (Vacs) usually presented serious danger.

The researchers found that applicants had to make multiple trips to Vacs so as to submit photographs, fingerprints and passports, and, if successful, collect the visas.

The nearest Vac was often hundreds of miles away, and some countries, such as Syria and Eritrea, had no such centre at all, the report said. Many applicants also had to make an additional journey to a Home Office-approved clinic for tuberculosis screening, which could also require long journeys and border crossings, it added.

Applicants making unauthorised border crossings to complete the visa requirements had the highest price to pay financially and in terms of threats to personal safety, the report found.

Researchers also reported that applicants needing to cross borders depended on smugglers. One in five had to use smugglers for part of their journey. Most of the trips were done at night, increasing their vulnerability, and could involve several days of walking along deserted routes through difficult terrain.

One woman told the charity how she travelled for days by camel, having to keep her children awake through the night so they did not fall during the journey.

A Home Office spokesperson said: “We require biometrics to enable us to confirm the identity of individuals who apply to come to the UK and to assess whether they pose a risk of harm, but have extended the 30-day entry clearance to 90 days to provide individuals with a longer window of opportunity to travel.”






