No.1 article:
‘It Makes Me Angry’: These Are the Jobless in a City Filled With Wealth

More than one in four workers in the West Farms neighborhood is out of work.

They were store clerks, hotel housekeepers, waitresses, cooks, for-hire drivers, security officers and maintenance workers before the coronavirus snatched away their livelihoods. Even before the outbreak, most were barely getting by on meager paychecks and scant savings.

Now their hopes for better lives are slipping away as they fall behind on rent, ration food and rack up credit card debt. Unemployment in this poor and largely Latino enclave of 19,000 in the Bronx was in double digits before the outbreak.

It has gotten far worse.

With an unemployment rate of 26 percent in September, West Farms has become an epicenter of New York’s economic crisis, one of the hardest hit urban communities in the country and emblematic of the pandemic’s uneven toll.

Though no corner of the city has escaped the fallout, the mass job losses have been concentrated in mostly Black and Latino pockets outside Manhattan that have long lagged economically behind the rest of the city. Communities like West Farms have also suffered disproportionately from the coronavirus itself, with higher rates of people becoming ill.

Meliza Mercedes, 26, was scouring apartment listings before the outbreak, hoping to finally give her 3-year-old daughter, Aubrey, a home of her own. A couple of times, she spotted a nice two-bedroom apartment in the Bronx for under $2,000 a month.

Ms. Mercedes, who stays with her mother in West Farms, had saved about $3,000 by living frugally. She rarely went out and almost never bought herself new clothes. But then came the pandemic, which closed nonessential businesses in March. She lost her job as a store detective at Macy’s in Herald Square and her $550 weekly paycheck. Her savings were soon gone, too.

“I cry about it because I’ve been trying to get my own place,” she said.

Similar stories of hardship and loss are repeated countless times across West Farms. At the corner bodega where neighbors talk about how there is no work and no way to pay the bills. At the local elementary school, Public School 67, which now doubles as a food pantry, giving out 400 grab-and-go meals with sandwiches and fruit every day.

Amanda Adedokun, a single mother, lost her babysitting jobs and can no longer support her own children. Eddie Suárez is a commercial landlord who built a storefront nearly three decades ago, but with a tenant missing rent payments, he struggles to pay his own bills. And Yalikhan Traore, a West African immigrant who worked in a beauty supply store, had to reinvent herself as a delivery driver to adapt to the new pandemic reality.

New York City’s economic crisis is among the worst in the nation, with unemployment at 13.2 percent in October, nearly double the national rate. But within the city, the pain varies vastly. Manhattan’s unemployment rate is 10.3 percent, but in the Bronx, the city’s poorest borough, it is 17.5 percent — the highest in the state.

In West Farms, the unemployment rate soared from 11 percent in February to 38 percent in June, before dropping to 26 percent in September, according to a statistical model developed by two analysts, Yair Ghitza and Mark Steitz.

Across the neighborhood, stores have fewer customers and sales. One dry cleaner took out a $75,000 loan to stay in business. A Catholic school that educated children for more than a century closed after many families could no longer afford tuition.

In contrast, some of the city’s most affluent and largely white neighborhoods in Manhattan have fared far better. The unemployment rate on the Upper East Side was 5 percent in September, up from 1 percent in February, according to the latest data from the statistical model. On the Upper West Side, it was 6 percent, up from 2 percent.

Poor workers, including many Black and Latino people, have been hurt much worse during the pandemic than by past recessions, including the 2008 financial crisis, said James Parrott, an economist with the Center for New York City Affairs at The New School.

He said the pandemic had triggered many more layoffs among lower-paid workers, while far fewer higher-paid workers — including those in finance, technology and professional services, who tend to be mostly white — have lost jobs or benefits.

“It’s another dimension of the extreme differences in economic well-being in New York,” Mr. Parrott said.

West Farms gets its name from the English farmers who settled this area along the Bronx River in the mid-1600s, said Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx borough historian. It later grew into a village with teachers, dressmakers, and grocers, many of whom wanted to escape Manhattan crowding. Factories followed as the river became a bustling industrial waterway.

Apartment houses spread across West Farms in the 1900s after a subway station — the West Farms Square-East Tremont Avenue stop on the 2 and 5 lines — was built. The area was the backdrop for one of the city’s worst tragedies in 1990, when 87 people died in a fire set at the Happy Land Social Club.

West Farms lies just south of the Bronx Zoo — zebras can be spotted from some apartment windows. Today, its long history is reflected in the jumble of tidy single-family homes and rowhouses, squat brick buildings and affordable housing towers.

Ms. Mercedes moved to West Farms with her family from a homeless shelter in the Bronx in 2008. The youngest of six children of immigrants from the Dominican Republic, she later dropped out of high school when she was 17. Her first job was store cashier, followed by stints at a storefront tax service and two pharmacies.

Ms. Mercedes said she always wanted to work in law enforcement and was thrilled to be hired as a Macy’s security guard in July 2019. She was promoted four months later to store detective. She once spotted four shoplifters in a single day, she recalled, and was bitten or bruised trying to stop some of them. For her efforts, she was recognized as detective of the month.

“Everything was going well until the pandemic hit,” she said.

So well that Ms. Mercedes allowed herself a few splurges. She got her nails done twice a month, and treated Aubrey to outings at Chuck E. Cheese. They took mother-daughter trips to Target and Dollar Tree, where Aubrey picked out sticker books or a toy from “Trolls,” her favorite movie.

The pandemic ended all that. For an older sister’s birthday dinner, Ms. Mercedes could only afford to get the cheapest thing on the menu, fried chicken with rice and beans.

“It was driving me crazy not to go back to work,” said Ms. Mercedes, who did not look for another job because she believed she would return to work at Macy’s.

When the store reopened in June, she received an email — it was addressed “Dear colleague” — that said, “Regretfully, we are unable to continue your employment at this time.” She received a severance check of $1,500.

Julie Strider, a Macy’s spokeswoman, declined to comment on Ms. Mercedes, but cited necessary reductions as a result of the pandemic.

“These are always hard decisions to make as they impact many of our valued colleagues,” she said.

Ms. Mercedes said she had applied for more than two dozen jobs. “It’s a very scary situation,” she said.

Few in West Farms have a financial safety net. The median annual household income is $23,329, compared with $38,000 in the Bronx, according to an analysis of census data by Social Explorer, a research company. Citywide, the median income is $61,000, nearly three times higher.

Jose Allende starts pounding the sidewalks in West Farms at 7 a.m., hoping to find someone who needs a hand with construction. Mr. Allende wears paint-splattered jeans and boots to show that he is ready to work, though he has gotten few takers.

Mr. Allende said he was laid off from his job as a handyman for a nearby residential building just before the pandemic. He also used to supplement his income with handyman gigs in Queens and Brooklyn. But he said he no longer feels safe riding the subway or bus since he has no health insurance or savings and cannot afford to get sick.

“I lost sleep trying to think of how to pay the bills,” said Mr. Allende, 50, who moved to West Farms a decade ago from Puerto Rico.

In recent years, a construction boom has brought an influx of affordable housing and newcomers to West Farms. About 74 percent of West Farms residents are Latino, and 23 percent Black, according to the census analysis.

Mr. Suárez, 72, a former elementary schoolteacher from Harlem, has far deeper roots in the neighborhood. He took a chance on West Farms in 1992, when the area was far less safe, and decided to build a no-frills storefront on a vacant lot. Last year, in a sign of the neighborhood’s upswing, he was offered $1 million for the property by an investor, he said, but turned it down.

He leased space to a laundromat and a botanica, and in the back, created a youth center. “We went through a period of rebuilding in the Bronx,” Mr. Suárez said.

“Things aren’t looking too good right now,” he added.

West Farms is part of the 10460 ZIP code, which had a higher rate of confirmed coronavirus cases than the city’s overall rate of 3,276 cases per 100,000 residents in mid-November, according to city data.

The Bronx has the highest rates of total coronavirus hospitalizations and deaths of any borough.

Mr. Suárez said that both businesses in his building are open, but the botanica is struggling and behind on the rent. “All the businesses in the neighborhood have suffered,” said Mr. Suárez, who is himself having a hard time paying bills without the rent money.

Another small commercial landlord, Eduardo Rodríguez, said his tenant, a business service center, left without paying six months of rent, more than $16,000. “Even if the tenants don’t pay, I still have to pay the bank,” said Mr. Rodríguez. “So I drew from my savings and was left with nothing.”

Many West Farms landlords and business owners said they are simply trying to hold on.

Raymond Cabrera, who owns a dry cleaning store, said he has only a couple of customers a day. “I think they don’t come because they don’t go to work, weddings, church, parties,” he said.

Mr. Cabrera, 60, said he used a $75,000 emergency federal loan for small businesses to cover the $2,000 monthly rent for his storefront. Repaying the loan would take 30 years.

At El Nuevo Valle 2 Restaurant, the lunch crowd has largely disappeared. “It’s not even a shred of what it used to be like,” said María Tejada, 55, a waitress in a mask at the counter.

A few minutes later, Ms. Tejada wagged her finger at a customer. “You owe me one dollar, OK? Next time.”

“People want you to give them food, they say they don’t have the money,” she said.

One neighborhood institution did not make it. St. Thomas Aquinas, the local parochial school, closed in July. Parents who lost jobs could no longer afford tuition. And with churches shut down for months because of the pandemic, there were fewer donations, which are used in part to support schools.

“It’s really sad to see that a school that made me who I am is closed down now,” said Stephanie Quiñones, 34, who attended St. Thomas Aquinas. “To think that it stayed open over a 100 years, and to close it just like that.”

When Ms. Traore was laid off from a beauty supply shop in March, she didn’t even have money to spare for the laundromat. So she started washing her clothes in the bathtub.

She pooled her food money with a roommate, and stocked up on rice, beans and eggs from a West African grocery. She could no longer pay her $600 share of the rent.

“Everything has a cost in New York,” said Ms. Traore, 35, who immigrated from Guinea three years ago. “If you have no income, it’s hard, it’s really hard, especially if you have no savings.”

Ms. Traore learned about unemployment benefits from a friend. She applied right away, but heard nothing for weeks. “I kept checking every day, two or three times,” she said. “I found that was a full-time job calling the unemployment office.”

Unemployment benefits have been a lifeline for many West Farms workers. Some earned as much, if not more, than they did at their jobs with the federal pandemic supplement, which added $600 a week to state benefits, and were able to pay bills.

But the layoffs overwhelmed New York’s unemployment system. And when the federal supplement ended in July, the remaining state benefit — capped at $504 a week — was not enough for most people.

Ms. Traore started to panic after weeks of waiting for benefits. She joined a Facebook group where workers had enlisted elected officials for help. She emailed State Senator Luis R. Sepúlveda, whose district includes West Farms, for assistance.

With Mr. Sepúlveda’s office pushing her case, Ms. Traore’s benefits — $700 a week after taxes, including the federal supplement — were approved.

Mr. Sepúlveda has received more than 500 requests for help with unemployment benefits — so many that his office set up a database to track cases.

“It makes me angry because in the wealthiest city in the world, it’s inexcusable to have such a high rate of unemployment in one area,” Mr. Sepúlveda said.

As the public health crisis eased, New York restarted its economy. Stores and businesses reopened and started calling some of their workers back.

Ms. Traore was one of the lucky ones in West Farms. She started in June as a driver delivering packages, benefiting from the surge in online shopping during the pandemic. She earns $17 an hour, or $2 more than her minimum-wage job at the beauty store.

Ms. Traore said she liked bringing essential supplies and medications to people who cannot go out. “I’m doing what I can right now to help people,” she said.

Ms. Mercedes also has reason to hope. After The New York Times asked Macy’s about her job status, she said the company recently offered her a position at one of its Brooklyn stores.

Even as some people in West Farms are finding their footing, many others are not.

Ms. Adedokun, 45, used to earn $400 a week babysitting for two families in West Farms before the pandemic. Then one parent began working remotely for a law firm, and another was laid off by a hotel. With no babysitting money, Ms. Adedokun has run up $7,000 in credit card debt.

Ms. Adedokun, who lives in a subsidized apartment with her son, 17, and daughter, 8, said they liked to celebrate her daughter’s birthday at a water park. This year, all they could afford was pizza.

To make herself feel better, she said, she gets dressed in a blouse and jeans and dabs on makeup just to go sit on a bench outside her apartment.

“It’s helping me mentally,” she said. “If I stay in and look a mess, I feel like a mess.”





No.2 article:
Biden Plans to Tap Lloyd Austin, Former Iraq Commander, as Defense Secretary

The retired four-star Army general would make history as the first African-American to lead the Pentagon.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is expected to nominate retired Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, a former commander of the American military effort in Iraq, to be the next secretary of defense, according to two people with knowledge of the selection.

If confirmed by the Senate, General Austin would make history as the first African-American to lead the country’s 1.3 million active-duty troops and the enormous bureaucracy that backs them up.

General Austin, 67, was for years a formidable figure at the Pentagon, and is the only African-American to have headed U.S. Central Command, the military’s marquee combat command, with responsibility for Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria — most of the places where the United States is at war.

General Austin is known as a battlefield commander. But he is less known for his political instincts — and has sometimes stumbled in congressional hearings, including a session in 2015 when he acknowledged, under testy questioning, that the Defense Department’s $500 million program to raise an army of Syrian fighters had gone nowhere.

He was selected over another front-runner, Michèle A. Flournoy, who had served in senior Pentagon policy jobs and mentored a generation of women in national security who had pushed for her appointment as the first female defense secretary.

Mr. Biden, who is meeting with N.A.A.C.P. leaders Tuesday, was facing pressure from the Congressional Black Caucus and other Black officials to name an African-American to run the Defense Department or Justice Department. But he also skipped over Jeh C. Johnson, a former secretary of homeland security and former general counsel at the Pentagon considered by many to be a more politically astute pick for the first Black man to head the Defense Department.

It was unclear Monday night what tipped the scales for General Austin. People close to the transition noted that, during the Obama presidency, Mr. Biden was unhappy with the high profile of the Pentagon, with generals like David H. Petraeus gaining near rock-star status, and the belief that the Pentagon rolled President Barack Obama into increasing troop numbers in Afghanistan.

General Austin’s lower profile, those people suggested, may match with Mr. Biden’s hopes for a more muted Defense Department.

Still, General Austin may face some pushback from lawmakers who feel strongly about civilian control of the military, and do not think a retired general can make the transition. Like Jim Mattis, who was President Trump’s first defense secretary, General Austin would have to get a congressional waiver to serve, since he has been out of the military for only four years and American law requires a seven-year waiting period between active duty and becoming Pentagon chief.

It is not assured that General Austin would get the waiver; Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, had indicated after Mr. Mattis’s confirmation that he would oppose future waivers for the post. But for Mr. Reed to reject the first African-American nominated to be defense secretary, after approving Mr. Mattis, would be notable.

General Austin, who retired as a four-star general in 2016 after 41 years in the military, is respected across the Army, especially among African-American officers and enlisted soldiers, as one of the rare Black men to crack the glass ceiling that has kept the upper ranks of the military largely the domain of white men.

Some 43 percent of active-duty troops are people of color. But the people making crucial decisions are almost entirely white and male.

Supporters say General Austin broke through that barrier thanks to his experience, intellect and the mentorship of a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, who plucked him to direct the staff of the Joint Chiefs’ office.

After that, General Austin continued to rise in the ranks. He was named commander of Central Command by President Barack Obama in 2013.

Shortly after the 2020 election, General Austin took part in an online session that Mr. Biden had with former national security officials. During that meeting, General Austin impressed Mr. Biden, aides said. His selection was reported earlier by Politico.

After retiring, General Austin joined the board of the defense contractor Raytheon Technologies, a fact that garnered criticism Monday night.

“OH COME ON. A General and Raytheon board?” said Danielle Brian, the executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, in a Twitter post. “Possibly the worst of all options. Bad news for civilian control and any real distance from the military-industrial- complex.”

But his supporters point to a long career in combat and command, including some of the most difficult assignments of the post-9/11 era.

General Austin became the top commander of American forces in Iraq in 2010, when the United States still had roughly 50,000 service members there. Much of the attention had moved on to other hot spots in the Middle East, but major questions still existed about the direction of Iraq, including whether any American forces would remain in the country beyond 2011. General Austin and his commanders were convinced that a sizable force of over 5,000 troops needed to remain to help the fledgling Iraqi military. But the commanders on the ground were ultimately overruled by the Obama administration, which pulled out all American forces by the end of 2011.

Years later that decision would be blamed for the Islamic State’s ability to seize wide swaths of the country.

General Austin’s style was far more reserved than some of the officers with marquee names who spent considerable time cultivating their public image and using the news media to maneuver policy fights with the administration.

Despite overseeing the withdrawal of American forces from Iraq after a bloody war, General Austin showed little interest in the public-facing parts of the job. He avoided speaking publicly or with members of the news media, allowing others to take the lead in the messaging as the war came to an end.

Subsequently, as commander of all American forces in the Middle East, General Austin was the principal military architect of the U.S.-led campaign to oust the Islamic State, after the insurgents seized a swath of territory in eastern Syria and northern Iraq the size of Britain, in June 2014.

After first spending several months helping beleaguered Iraqi forces shore up defensive positions outside the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, the United States halted the Islamic State advance elsewhere in the country’s northern third with a campaign of airstrikes to weaken and damage the insurgent ranks.

By the fall of 2015, under General Austin’s leadership, the American-led coalition began preparing a major front in northeastern Syria, aiming to put pressure on Raqqa, the terrorist group’s de facto capital.

Under a war plan drafted by General Austin and his aides, and approved by Mr. Obama, the Pentagon took two major steps. The military, for the first time, directly provided ammunition and some weapons to Syrian opposition forces fighting the Islamic State on the ground. Mr. Obama also endorsed General Austin’s idea for an increased air campaign from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey.

Together, these measures were intended to empower 3,000 to 5,000 Arab fighters who would join more than 20,000 Kurdish combatants in an offensive backed by dozens of coalition warplanes to pressure Raqqa.

This new northern front aimed at weakening the Islamic State by trying to take away the group’s home-field advantage, even as the militants held on to Mosul and Ramadi in Iraq.

In testimony in September 2015 to the Senate Armed Services Committee, General Austin said that over the next six months it would put “a lot more pressure on key areas in Syria, like the city of Raqqa.”

“Because of that access,” General Austin continued, referring to the use of the air base in Turkey, “we’ll have the ability to increase the pace and focus on key places in Syria. So that will certainly shake things in Iraq.”

And over time, General Austin’s strategy did exactly that.

General Austin is a graduate of the United States Military Academy. He and his wife, Charlene, have been married for 40 years.

His elevation would be particularly poignant for Black West Point graduates: He was reared in Thomasville, Ga., the same town that produced Henry O. Flipper, who was born a slave and in 1877 became the first African-American graduate of the academy.





No.3 article:
As His Term Ends, Trump Faces More Questions on Payments to His Hotel

A civil case being pursued by the attorney general for the District of Columbia has brought renewed attention to what limits there should be on a president’s ability to profit from the office.

WASHINGTON — It was a month before Donald J. Trump’s inauguration, and one of his aides had a delicate question: Wasn’t there going to be a backlash when it became known that the inauguration had spent donors’ money at Mr. Trump’s hotel in Washington, even though other places would cost much less or even be free?

“These are events in P.E.’s honor at his hotel, and one of them is with and for family and close friends,” Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, then an event planner for Mr. Trump, wrote in an email to a colleague in December 2016, referring to Mr. Trump as the president-elect and saying she raised the issue to “express my concern.”

As Mr. Trump’s presidency comes to a close, expenditures like those are receiving renewed legal scrutiny in the form of a civil case being pursued by the attorney general for the District of Columbia.

At the heart of the case is a question — whether Mr. Trump and his family have profited from his public role, sometimes at the expense of taxpayers, competitors and donors — that has been a persistent theme of his tenure in the White House.

More than 200 companies, special-interest groups and foreign governments patronized Mr. Trump’s properties during his presidency while reaping benefits from him and his administration. Sixty of them spent $12 million at his properties during the first two years he was in office.

The Trump family business has received millions of dollars in payments by the Secret Service, the State Department and the United States military to Trump properties around the country and the world. The president has visited his properties on at least 417 days since taking office, at times with world leaders. And he and his affiliated political committees spent more than $6.5 million in campaign funds at his hotels and other businesses since 2017, including a million-dollar final burst in the weeks before the election last month.

In the lawsuit now moving forward, Attorney General Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia is arguing that Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee illegally overpaid his family business by as much as $1.1 million for events held at the Trump International Hotel in the city in January 2017. Ivanka Trump was deposed in the case last week.

The lawsuit asks the court to order the inauguration to recover the $1 million paid to the Trump hotel and to redirect it to a “proper public purpose” such as “another nonprofit entity dedicated to promoting civic engagement of the citizens of the United States.”

Questions about spending, influence and lobbying around the 2017 inaugural have also drawn scrutiny from federal prosecutors from two different offices in New York, with charges filed against at least one donor.

But for all the attention focused on the issue, Mr. Trump is set to leave office without a clear resolution of what limits there should be on a president’s ability to profit from his public role.

Lawsuits brought by nonprofit groups and attorneys general in Washington and Maryland claiming that Mr. Trump had violated the so-called emoluments clause of the Constitution were never resolved during his term and now face potential dismissal once he is out of power.

“It is more than just frustrating,” said Laurence H. Tribe, a constitutional law professor at Harvard, who has been involved in the emoluments litigation. “The most serious questions about the abuse of presidential power and the use of the presidency as a center of personal gain and profit remain unresolved. The wheels of justice clearly ground more slowly than some would have hoped.”

The issue played out especially visibly at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, which opened in late October 2016, two weeks before Mr. Trump was elected.

The hotel became a focal point for lobbyists, White House aides, Republicans in Congress and hundreds of others who sought a way to impress Mr. Trump, even though tax records obtained by The New York Times show that the property continued to lose money through at least 2018.

The Trump family had tried to sell its lease at the hotel last year before reversing course when the coronavirus pandemic hit. With revenue sure to have declined this year, Mr. Trump will have to decide whether to put the property back up for sale after he leaves office, or perhaps hope its value will increase if he runs again.

“Fifty percent of the people still will not go into the hotel,” said William W. Moyer, a hotel broker, noting that many potential customers who were not supporters of Mr. Trump avoided the property. “And the other 50 percent wanted to go there. You are not going to turn on or off people’s loyalties like a light switch.”

The case Mr. Racine is pursuing is moving ahead after he spent several years collecting evidence about the arrangements between the presidential inaugural committee and the hotel.

Mr. Trump’s inauguration was unlike any other in American history: He raised more than $107 million, twice the previous record, as corporate donors poured tens of millions of dollars into the inaugural committee. Spending also took place at a record rate.

At the Trump hotel, the inaugural committee and guests attending the inauguration were already planning to fill most of the 263 rooms, which Mr. Racine argued meant that ballroom space would typically be offered for free or at least at a major discount.

But when the hotel initially asked the inaugural committee to pay $450,000 a day to rent the ballrooms and other common spaces, it provoked immediate questions from both Ms. Wolkoff, who has since broken with the Trump family, and Rick Gates, then the inaugural committee’s deputy chairman, who would go on to plead guilty to charges stemming from the special counsel’s investigation.

“First, the cost itself seems quite high compared to other property buyouts for the week,” Mr. Gates wrote in an email to Ivanka Trump 38 days before the inauguration. “Second, I am a bit worried about the optics of P.I.C. paying Trump Hotel a high rent fee and the media making a big story out of it,” he added, referring to the presidential inaugural committee.

Ms. Trump wrote to Mickael C. Damelincourt, the hotel’s general manager, and asked him to call Mr. Gates to negotiate a better deal for the inaugural committee. “It should be a fair market rate,” Ms. Trump said in a follow-up email, which soon led to a new offer of $175,000 per day.

Still Ms. Wolkoff raised concerns.

“In my opinion, the max rental fee should be $85,000 per day,” she responded to Mr. Gates and Ms. Trump in an email where she also noted that other properties, such as Union Station, had offered their spaces for the inauguration at no charge.

This series of emails — filed in court documents as part of the lawsuit — is at the heart of the case that Mr. Racine, a Democrat, is pursuing.

The inaugural committee paid $220,000 for rooms at the hotel, including $75,259 to rent out the so-called Trump Townhouse, marketed as an ultraluxurious suite.

On two of the days that the inaugural committee paid the hotel $175,000 to rent the ballroom, it had no events that used it, the lawsuit said. And on a third day when it actually used the ballroom for a luncheon — again paying $175,000 — another nonprofit group had paid just $5,000 to rent the same presidential ballroom space for an inauguration-related event that morning.

The committee also paid the hotel for costs associated with a “friends and family” event for Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. that their father was not expected to attend. The inauguration staff was so uncomfortable sponsoring the gathering that they tried to cancel it, court documents showed. But Mr. Damelincourt objected.

“Rick … just heard that the Friday night reception had been canceled. Is it accurate?” Mr. Damelincourt wrote. “Tough on us if it is as it was a lot of revenue.” The event was then rescheduled and took place the night Mr. Trump was sworn in.

Ivanka Trump was questioned for five hours last week about the matter, in one of a series of depositions that has also included Mr. Damelincourt and Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a major donor to Mr. Trump who was the chairman of the inaugural committee. Ms. Wolkoff will be questioned under oath this week and Mr. Gates this month.

Documents were also subpoenaed from Melania Trump, the first lady, but she has not been called to testify.

After her deposition, Ivanka Trump condemned the inquiry, as did her brother Eric Trump, who oversees operations at the hotel.

“This is a game stemming from a political vendetta,” Eric Trump said in an interview, echoing his sister, who said on Twitter that the case was “another politically motivated demonstration of vindictiveness &amp; waste of taxpayer dollars.”

So far, Judge José M. López at the Superior Court of the District of Columbia has sided with the attorney general, rejecting a motion by the Trump Organization and the inaugural committee to dismiss the case. Judge López has authorized the parties to move ahead with depositions and other so-called discovery until March to prepare for a possible trial.

The civil suit being pursued by Mr. Racine is distinct from two separate cases raising the constitutional issues about the intersection of Mr. Trump’s public role and his businesses. The two cases focused on the Constitution’s emoluments clause will be on shakier ground once he leaves office, lawyers involved in the cases said.

A federal district court judge ruled in one of the emoluments suits in March 2018 that Maryland and the District of Columbia had the right to pursue their cases challenging whether Mr. Trump’s businesses could take payments from other governments. And for the first time, the court defined what an emolument is, accepting the broader definition advocated by Maryland and the District that it represented just about any payment from a foreign government to the president’s businesses instead of a payment made to the president explicitly in exchange for an official action he would then take, as he had argued.

But one of the remedies their lawsuit sought was an order that the president stop accepting these payments. Once he leaves office, that outcome will effectively have been achieved, perhaps undermining the case.

“We are having high-level discussions around the viability, survivability of the matter,” Mr. Racine said about the emoluments case.

Equally unresolved is the future of the Trump hotel in Washington.

The hotel bar is open again after closing in the spring when the virus first peaked. But traffic is still very slow, in part because the hotel is limiting entry to only those with reservations because of virus restrictions.

Zach Everson, who runs an online newsletter that tracks activities at the hotel, said its fate might be determined in part by how much of a power broker Mr. Trump remains.

“Any business that is sustained in some part by people wanting to get in his favor, once you take the official power he had to grant that favor, I am not sure how they can sustain it,” Mr. Everson said. “But with Donald Trump, he has been able to pull a rabbit out of the hat before.”

On Friday, White House-related business was still coming in.

Jason Miller, a Trump campaign aide, showed up at lunchtime without his name on the list. He told a security guard at the hotel entrance that he was there for a meeting with the lawyers Eric Hershmann and Justin Clark, two other aides to Mr. Trump.

For a moment, Mr. Miller was prevented from entering.

“I work for the president,” he told the security guard, before finally being let in.





No.4 article:
Trump Administration Passed on Chance to Secure More of Pfizer Vaccine

The pharmaceutical company offered the government a chance to lock in additional supplies before its vaccine was proved effective in clinical trials.

WASHINGTON — Before Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine was proved highly successful in clinical trials last month, the company offered the Trump administration the chance to lock in supplies beyond the 100 million doses the pharmaceutical maker agreed to sell the government as part of a $1.95 billion deal over the summer.

But the administration, according to people familiar with the talks, never made the deal, a choice that now raises questions about whether the United States allowed other countries to take its place in line.

While two vaccines, including Pfizer’s, have proved to be highly effective against Covid-19, and a third also appears at least moderately effective, supplies are shaping up to be scarce in the coming months as infections, hospitalizations and deaths surge to new highs. And while Pfizer is now negotiating with the administration to provide more of its vaccine, people familiar with the talks say the company cannot guarantee that it will be able to deliver more than the initial 100 million doses — enough to inoculate 50 million people since its vaccine requires two shots — before perhaps next June.

After it signed its federal contract in late July, Pfizer went on to seal deals with other governments, including the European Union, which last month finalized an agreement to acquire 200 million doses from Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech. On Tuesday, Britain will begin inoculating its population with the vaccine.

President Trump has hailed the development of the vaccine as a victory for his administration, even though Pfizer, unlike the developer of the other most promising vaccine, Moderna, took no upfront money from the government’s Operation Warp Speed development program.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump is holding a White House event to promote the program’s role and plans to issue an executive order that applies his “America First” philosophy to the pandemic by proclaiming that other nations will not get the U.S. supplies of its vaccine until Americans have been inoculated.

The executive order by itself appears to have no real teeth and does not expand the U.S. supply of doses, according to a description of the order on Monday by senior administration officials. But it provides Mr. Trump with a talking point to rebut any criticism about the limited initial supply of the vaccine.

The order is being issued “to ensure that the United States government prioritizes getting the vaccine to American citizens before sending it to other nations,” according to a draft statement. The decision by the White House to issue the executive order was reported by Fox News.

Since the beginning of the vaccine development efforts early this year, some experts have been concerned that nationalism could complicate efforts to distribute the vaccine equitably around the world. Until now the United States has declined to participate in international efforts to supply low-income countries with vaccines.

Asked if the Trump administration had missed a crucial chance to snap up more doses for Americans, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services said, “We are confident that we will have 100 million doses of Pfizer’s vaccine as agreed to in our contract, and beyond that, we have five other vaccine candidates, including 100 million doses on the way from Moderna.”

The federal contract signed in July called for Pfizer to deliver 100 million doses by March at a cost of $19.50 a dose — if its vaccine worked. It gave the government the option to request 100 million to 500 million additional doses. It was one of six contracts that the Trump administration signed with vaccine makers in a strategy intended to hedge its bets and maximize the chances of success.

Accounts differ over the timing of the discussions between Pfizer and federal officials about locking in extra doses. Several people said that during late summer or early fall, Pfizer officials repeatedly warned the Trump administration that demand could vastly outstrip supply and urged it to pre-order more doses, but were turned down.

One senior administration official, who spoke to reporters on Monday on the condition of anonymity, said that any company offering hundreds of millions of doses before it had proof its vaccine worked “was just not going to get the government’s money.”

Another person familiar with the negotiations said talks about possible additional doses began in early October. Michael Pratt, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, declined to comment on the discussions, but said that “an important part of any negotiation is having established timelines for delivery and production amounts.”

In a statement, Pfizer, an American company with headquarters in New York, said that “any additional doses beyond the 100 million are subject to a separate and mutually acceptable agreement,” and that “the company is not able to comment on any confidential discussions that may be taking place with the U.S. government.”

So far, only Pfizer has won emergency approval from a Western government. British regulators authorized it less than a week ago, after late-stage clinical trial results showed the vaccine was about 95 percent effective. The Food and Drug Administration is expected to follow suit in the United States as early as this weekend.

The agency may also soon approve another vaccine developed by Moderna, a small firm based in Cambridge, Mass. But doses supplied by Pfizer and Moderna will initially be extremely scarce — enough to vaccinate about 22.5 million people before the end of the year — and federal officials have said vaccines will not be widely available to Americans until well into next year, even as the daily death toll continues to climb with more than 280,000 lives lost to date.

Originally, the White House cast Tuesday’s vaccine event as a kind of a victory lap for Mr. Trump. The president has repeatedly noted that his administration threw the might of the federal government behind vaccine development, a farsighted move that contrasted with its now nearly yearlong failure to curb the pandemic’s spread.

But some high-profile players will not be there. Representatives for Moderna and Pfizer said the company executives did not plan to attend. A senior administration official said on Monday that the companies were not included because the event would also include a top regulator from the F.D.A., Dr. Peter Marks, who is reviewing their vaccine applications.

Despite its “America First” theme, a major component of the executive order directs federal agencies to develop a policy for eventually selling or donating any additional doses to other countries.

“Once we’ve ensured the ability to meet the needs of the American people, it would then be in the interest of the United States to facilitate international access to a Covid vaccine,” a senior administration official told reporters on Monday.

The bulk of the global supply of vaccines has been claimed by wealthy countries like the United States, Canada, Britain and countries in Europe, leading to criticism that people in low- and middle-income countries will be left behind. The United States, for example, has declined to participate in a global initiative, called Covax, that is meant to make a vaccine available globally.

The federal government settled on 100 million doses from Pfizer in part because it was supporting a portfolio of other candidates, and because it was uncertain how well the company’s vaccine would perform in late-stage clinical trials, federal officials said. 

Pfizer has struggled to meet initial expectations. This summer, the company predicted that it would have 100 million doses by the end of the year, but in November, it said manufacturing challenges forced the company to scale that back to 50 million. Vaccine manufacturing is notoriously unpredictable, and any number of factors — from shortages of raw ingredients to contaminated batches — could cause further setbacks.

As negotiations continue for additional doses, Pfizer is in a strategically important position, given that it is one of only two companies with applications pending in the United States for emergency authorization. If other vaccines prove to be promising, Pfizer could lose its leverage to dictate the terms of its agreements with the federal government.

The United States could use the Defense Production Act to compel Pfizer to prioritize the federal government in its domestic factories. But Pfizer and BioNTech have a duplicate production line in Europe, limiting the United States’ ability to control Pfizer’s global supply. Forcing Pfizer to serve the United States first could also be diplomatically delicate, given the company’s deals with other governments.

Warp Speed officials and Pfizer are still in regular contact, and more commitments to Pfizer and Moderna could be made in the coming weeks and months, one official said. But by January, a new administration will most likely play a significant role in how much more to invest in Pfizer before it could receive a full license of its vaccine from the F.D.A., when investments may shift to the private market.

But while both Pfizer and Moderna appear to have achieved success beyond what researchers even hoped, some of the other vaccine makers fell behind. Top federal health officials and outside experts have questioned the clinical trial data presented by AstraZeneca, a British-based company that is working with University of Oxford researchers.

Novavax, another vaccine maker that received huge support from the Trump administration, has delayed the start of its Phase 3 clinical trial in the United States in part because of setbacks in manufacturing enough doses for its trial. It has now said that it plans to start this month.

Johnson &amp; Johnson has said it could report early results of its vaccine trial by January, and another Operation Warp Speed participant, Sanofi, has said it plans to start its late-stage vaccine trial before the end of the year.

Unlike other vaccine makers, Pfizer spurned federal subsidies for developing and manufacturing, shouldering the financial risk of the vaccine project itself. In a recent interview with The New York Times, the company’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Bourla, said he worried that government oversight would slow his firm’s work, not accelerate it. And he feared federal funding would come with strings attached. That has left Warp Speed officials with a less complete week-to-week understanding of the company’s manufacturing.





No.5 article:
Japan’s Journey to an Asteroid Ends With a Hunt in Australia’s Outback

The Hayabusa2 mission cements Japan’s role in exploring the solar system, but finding its asteroid cargo presented one last challenge.

This past weekend, Japan’s space agency concluded a six-year, 3.25 billion-mile journey of discovery that aims to shed light on the earliest eons of the solar system and possibly provide clues about the origins of life on Earth.

But first, it had to go on a scavenger hunt in the Australian outback.

Bits of an asteroid landed in a barren region near Woomera, South Australia. These were being ferried to Earth by Hayabusa2, a robotic space probe launched by JAXA, Japan’s space agency, in 2014 to explore an asteroid named Ryugu, a dark, carbon-rich rock a bit more than half a mile wide.

“I’m home,” Yuichi Tsuda, the mission’s project manager said in translated comments during a news conference after a capsule containing the asteroid sample was recovered. “Hayabusa2 is home.”

Dr. Tsuda described the condition of the capsule, which set down amid bushes in the Australian desert, as “very perfect.”

The success of the mission and the science it produces will raise Japan’s status as a central player in deep space exploration, together with NASA, the European Space Agency and Russia. JAXA currently has a spacecraft in orbit around Venus studying that planet’s hellish climate and is collaborating with the Europeans on a mission that is on its way to Mercury.

In the coming years, Japan plans to bring back rocks from Phobos, a moon of Mars, and contribute to NASA’s Artemis program to send astronauts to Earth’s moon.

But the immediate challenge was finding the 16-inch-wide return capsule somewhere amid thousands of square miles in a region 280 miles north of Adelaide, the nearest large city.

“It’s really in the middle of nowhere,” Shogo Tachibana, the principal investigator in charge of the analysis of the Hayabusa2 samples, said in an interview. He is part of a team of more than 70 people from Japan who traveled to Woomera for recovery of the capsule. The area, used by the Australian military for testing, provides a wide open space that was ideal for the return of an interplanetary probe.

The return capsule separated from the main spacecraft on Saturday about 12 hours before the landing, when it was about 125,000 miles from Earth. The mission’s managers confirmed the capsule’s ejection using data beamed back from the spacecraft, as well as with visual assistance from telescopes, like one at Kyoto University in Japan.

Soichi Noguchi, a Japanese astronaut who joined the International Space Station crew in November after a trip in a SpaceX capsule, said he spotted Hayabusa2 from orbit:

A day before, heavy rains fell and strong winds blew in Woomera. But then the air cleared and calmed. “The weather was crystal clear,” Dr. Tsuda said.

The capsule was spotted re-entering the atmosphere during the pre-dawn hours of Australia on Sunday, a tail streaming behind it as the atmosphere heated its surface.

Minutes later, the mission’s managers detected a radio signal from a beacon in the capsule.

From the fireball, the radio beacon and radar readings, the recovery team calculated the likely landing spot, and a helicopter was sent from Woomera to search for the capsule, although it was still dark.

“I was very, very, very nervous and uneasy,” Satoru Nakazawa, a project sub-manager who was part of the Woomera recovery team, said during the news conference.

But then, soon after sunrise, the capsule and its parachute were spotted. “We thought, wow, we found that,” Mr. Nakazawa said.

Even with the capsule in hand, there is a bit of a rush. The team wanted to whisk it back to Japan within 100 hours after the landing. Even though the container is sealed, the worry is that Earth air will slowly leak in. “There is no perfect sealing,” Dr. Tachibana said.

The helicopter took the capsule to a laboratory that has been set up at the Australian air force base at Woomera. There an instrument extracted gases within the capsule that may have been released by the asteroid rocks as they were shaken and broken during re-entry.

Makoto Yoshikawa, the mission manager, said in an interview the scientists would also like to see if they can detect any solar wind particles of helium that slammed into the asteroid and became embedded in the rocks.

The gases would also reassure the scientists that Hayabusa2 did indeed successfully collect samples from Ryugu. A minimum of 0.1 grams, or less than 1/280th of an ounce, is needed to declare success. The hope is the spacecraft brought back several grams.

On Monday night, an airplane left Australia to carry the sample back to Japan. There, the Hayabusa2 team will examine the Ryugu samples in earnest. In about a year, some of the samples will be shared with other scientists for additional study.

To gather these samples, Hayabusa2 arrived at the asteroid in June 2018. It executed a series of investigations, each of escalating technical complexity. It dropped probes to the surface of Ryugu, blasted a hole in the asteroid to peer at what lies beneath and twice descended to the surface to grab small pieces of the asteroid, an operation that proved much more challenging than expected because of the many boulders on the surface.

Small worlds like Ryugu used to be of little interest to planetary scientists who focused on studying planets, Masaki Fujimoto, deputy director general of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, part of JAXA, said in an interview.

“Minor bodies, who cares?” he said. “But if you are serious about the formation of planetary systems, small bodies actually matter.”

Studying water trapped in minerals from Ryugu could give hints if the water in Earth’s oceans came from asteroids, and if carbon-based molecules could have seeded the building blocks for life.

Part of the Ryugu samples will go to NASA, which is bringing back some rocks and soil from another asteroid with its OSIRIS-REX mission. The OSIRIS-REX space probe has been studying a smaller carbon-rich asteroid named Bennu and it will start back to Earth next spring, dropping off its rock samples in September 2023.

Ryugu and Bennu turned out to be surprisingly similar in some ways, both looking like spinning tops and with surfaces covered with boulders, but different in other ways. The rocks on Ryugu appear to contain much less water, for one. The significance of the similarities and differences will not become clear until after scientists study the rocks in more detail.

“When the OSIRIS-REX sample comes back, we will have lessons learned from the Hayabusa2 mission,” said Harold C. Connolly Jr., a geology professor at Rowan University in New Jersey and the mission sample scientist for OSIRIS-REX. “The similarities and differences are absolutely fascinating.”

Dr. Connolly hopes to go to Japan next summer to take part in analyzing the Ryugu samples.

Hayabusa2 is not Japan’s first planetary mission. Indeed, its name points to the existence of Hayabusa, an earlier mission that brought back samples from another asteroid, Itokawa. But that mission, which launched in 2003 and returned in 2010, faced major technical problems. So did JAXA’s Akatsuki spacecraft, currently in orbit around Venus, which the Japanese agency managed to restore to a scientific mission after years of difficulty. A Japanese mission to Mars also failed in 2003.

By contrast, operations of Hayabusa2 have gone almost flawlessly, even though it retains the same general design as its predecessor. “Actually, there are no big issues,” Dr. Yoshikawa, the mission manager, said. “Of course, small ones.”

He said the team studied in detail the failures on Hayabusa and made changes as needed, and also conducted numerous rehearsals to try to anticipate any contingencies it might encounter.

The team also had to navigate logistical hurdles because of the Covid-19 pandemic, quarantining for two weeks in a hotel in Adelaide before heading to Woomera.

The Japanese missions generally operate on smaller budgets than NASA’s and thus often carry fewer instruments. Hayabusa2’s cost is less than $300 million while OSIRIS-REX’s price will run about $1 billion.

Dropping off the Ryugu samples is not the end of the Hayabusa2 mission. After releasing the return capsule, the main spacecraft shifted course to avoid a collision with Earth, missing by 125 miles. It will now travel to another asteroid, a tiny one designated 1998 KY26 that is only 100 feet in diameter but spinning rapidly, completing one rotation in less than 11 minutes.

Hayabusa2 will use two flybys of Earth to fling itself toward KY26, finally arriving in 2031. It will conduct some astronomical experiments during its extended deep space journey, and the spacecraft still carries one last projectile that it may use to test that space rock’s surface.





No.6 article:
An Autistic Man Is Killed, Exposing Israel’s Festering Police Brutality Problem

The police killing of a disabled Palestinian fueled nationwide protests. But the authorities have failed to rein in the use of excessive force, which has a long history.

JERUSALEM — The school for the mentally disabled in Jerusalem’s Old City made a point of preparing its Palestinian students for interactions with the Israeli police.

There were frequent role-playing exercises, sometimes with real officers from a nearby police post playing themselves: How to say hello. How to present an ID. How to not be afraid.

Iyad al-Hallaq, a 31-year-old with autism, was a star pupil. But early on a Saturday, those lessons failed him. When police officers called out to him along the ancient Via Dolorosa, he took flight. He was quickly cornered, and a rookie officer, apparently sensing a threat, shot and killed him.

Mr. al-Hallaq was unarmed, those who knew him called him harmless, and witnesses said his teacher had shouted at the officers that he was disabled. The May 30 shooting was so disturbing that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called it a tragedy and Defense Minister Benny Gantz issued an apology.

Hoping to ignite a “Palestinian Lives Matter” movement, activists tried to link Mr. al-Hallaq’s killing to that of George Floyd in Minneapolis five days earlier, turning his name into a rallying cry. Since then, outrage over police brutality has grown after police officers and commanders were videotaped pummeling and choking anti-government protesters.

Prosecutors have recommended that the officer who shot Mr. al-Hallaq be charged with manslaughter but a conviction would be as exceptional as the killing was shocking. More likely, experts say, the outrage will dissipate, the prosecution will fizzle and little will change. The officer has not yet been formally charged.

But Israel’s problem with police brutality is not going away. Since at least the 1970s, efforts to rein in violent officers and impose accountability for their actions have repeatedly failed. The result is a system that often lets officers off the hook for all but the most damning and public excesses, and sometimes even for those.

The vast majority of complaints of police violence — 86 percent in the most recent year for which statistics are available — are never investigated, according to Justice Ministry records. Those that are almost never lead to criminal charges or even disciplinary action.

Critics say a culture of impunity pervades the police force, particularly in cases with minority victims. Ethiopian-Israelis, ultra-Orthodox Jews and left-wing activists are disproportionately victimized, critics say, while Palestinians receive the roughest treatment.

Lethal force, while rare, is wielded almost exclusively against Arabs and other minorities: Of 13 people known to have been killed by the police last year, 11 were Palestinians and two were of Ethiopian descent.

“Police officers know that there’s no accountability, so they’re more careless when it comes to certain populations,” said Fady Khoury, a Palestinian human rights lawyer.

Deadly errors, like the one that killed Mr. al-Hallaq, are often ascribed to inexperience. The least experienced officers, teenage draftees fulfilling their military obligations in the border police, are routinely assigned to the most volatile hot spots, like Jerusalem’s Old City.

Police officials insist that they do not tolerate brutality in the ranks.

“I don’t know any commander who wants a violent officer in his unit,” said Chief Superintendent Arad Braverman, who commands a 150-officer detachment of border police in the Old City. “I don’t know of any commander who knows he has a violent officer in his group or in his unit and he doesn’t oust them.”

The increasing use of body cameras, he said, will make it harder to get away with brutality. And he said that officers were well trained in the proper use of force, with reminders before every shift and monthly case studies.

Superintendent Braverman said that although it was impossible to avoid assigning raw recruits to friction points like the Old City, they were paired with experienced officers precisely to avoid deadly misjudgments.

But critics say that Israel’s police chiefs have too often failed to take a strong stand against excessive force.

“When the police are brutal and the leadership keeps silent, it’s screaming consent,” said Eran Schendar, who established the Justice Ministry’s Department of Investigations of Police Misconduct in 1992 and led it until 2003. “The fish stinks from the head.”

Experts attribute the seeming intractability of Israel’s police brutality problem to the mixed mission of the force: the police role of maintaining law and order melded with the military one of securing the front lines of a national conflict.

The Department of Investigations of Police Misconduct, which handles brutality complaints, often hesitates to investigate brutality allegations for fear that officers will shrink from using force when necessary, a 2017 comptroller’s audit found. Similarly, reform efforts invariably run up against dire warnings from police commanders of a “chilling effect” on officers’ aggressiveness.

“They say, we’re an organization where force is one of our main tools, and if we start restricting our policemen in using it too much, they’ll be too soft,” Mr. Schendar said. “And there we have a problem.”

If anything, the Justice Ministry may be easing its scrutiny.

The police force draws around 1,200 brutality complaints a year. While the majority are dropped before an investigation is opened, the number of indictments has fallen sharply. After rising for several years, they plummeted to just eight in 2018 from 44 the previous year, according to the most recent data available.

Short of prosecution, the misconduct unit can refer cases to the police force for disciplinary action. But the number of officers facing police disciplinary tribunals for excessive force fell from 86 in 2005 to just seven in 2015, according to the comptroller’s audit.

With few exceptions, the misconduct unit pursues only cases it considers slam-dunks.

Hila Edelman, the unit’s top prosecutor, said her outfit was as aggressive as it could be, and pointed proudly to its 87 percent conviction rate. But she said it was legally limited to pursuing cases with a “reasonable chance of conviction.”

“It’s not mathematics,” she said. “I wish I could put the evidence into a machine and it would tell me whether we’d get a conviction.”

She said the misconduct unit faces enormous obstacles: Often the sole witnesses in brutality cases, beyond the victim and the accused, are other police officers who refuse to incriminate one another. Judges are reflexively sympathetic to officers. The accusers often have criminal records, undercutting their credibility. And many Palestinians don’t bother filing complaints, doubting the system will do anything to help them.

Ms. Edelman dismissed the idea of seeking more indictments to send a message that excessive force would not be tolerated. That could mean more acquittals, she said, which could be interpreted as “a kosher certificate saying this action was fine.”

“I’m doing the most I can,” she said.

Lawyers for victims, however, say the misconduct unit too readily gives officers the benefit of the doubt, or lets complaints slide altogether, often failing to interview the accused or gather surveillance footage.

“They do the minimum of the minimum,” said Khalil Zaher, an East Jerusalem attorney with the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel.

When Haim Einhorn, an ultra-Orthodox Jew, complained that a police officer had punched him in the face in the tumult of a 2017 street protest in which he was only a bystander, the misconduct unit let the allegation languish for 18 months before declining to investigate.

Mr. Einhorn, 33, said he had the feeling that “I was submitting evidence and they were doing nothing.”

After Israel’s Supreme Court upbraided investigators, the case was reopened in May. By then, any surveillance images were long gone.

And when five off-duty border police officers viciously beat a Bedouin grocery worker in Tel Aviv in 2016, an attack captured on video, charges against four were dropped, and the investigation dragged on so long that the fifth had already completed his service and was no longer subject to disciplinary proceedings before they even began.

Efforts to tackle the problem systematically have been stymied by a shocking lack of data.

Neither the police nor the Justice Ministry has a system for tracking complaints against individual officers, leaving them ill-equipped to expose patterns of abuse and weed out violent officers.

And claims that minorities bear the brunt of police brutality are difficult to prove when the misconduct unit does not gather demographic information about the victims.

“They say it would be racist to collect it,” said Guy Lurie, an expert on the justice system at the Israeli Democracy Institute.

Mr. Schendar, the misconduct unit’s founder, said he had established the policy but now believes it was a mistake, saying such data is vital.

Palestinian lawyers say that the bias is obvious.

“They’re violent with everyone, but even more with Palestinians and Arabs,” Mr. Zaher said. “They’re much quicker to shoot at Palestinians. You rarely see them shoot at Israelis.”

Of the 11 Palestinians killed by the police in 2019, several were shot in the act of violent attacks, the authorities said, usually armed with knives. But three were shot after stealing cars, and a teenager was shot while trying to climb over Israel’s West Bank security barrier.

Badi Hasisi, chairman of Hebrew University’s Institute of Criminology, said violence was ingrained in the culture of the Israeli police force, which grew out of the paramilitary force the British maintained in Palestine.

“As colonial police, they were meant to deal with uprisings,” Professor Hasisi said. “They were more concerned with control — to be able to mobilize resources without any bureaucratic constraints.”

That imperative, he said, can still be seen in the force’s abiding resistance to accountability measures, viewing them as “sticks in the bicycle wheel.”

Missing in Israel, advocates say, is an agency empowered to tackle brutality as a systemic problem, the way the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division has intervened against police departments across the United States.

Also unlike the United States, where plaintiffs can win multimillion-dollar settlements or jury awards including punitive damages, Israel’s civil courts provide only a weak backstop. The Israeli police paid less than $700,000 in 2019 to resolve an undisclosed number of use-of-force lawsuits, records show.

What little accountability exists often seems to require incontrovertible video evidence: A bystander’s video of an officer beating a truck driver in East Jerusalem quickly prompted the officer’s firing. Officers who were recorded beating a Palestinian man outside the Old City — who prosecutors say had been falsely arrested for assaulting them — were eventually charged with assault and obstruction of justice.

But while officials promised to distribute body cameras to 12,000 police officers by the end of this year, only around 5,500 have been deployed, few with the units most often sent into volatile situations.

And cameras are not a cure-all.

That was one of the lessons from the killing of Mr. al-Hallaq.

At 31, he was poised to gain new independence. At his school just off the Via Dolorosa, where he learned cooking, gardening and “life skills,” he had begun communicating his feelings — a breakthrough, his teachers said.

“These are the moments that we, as professionals, are waiting for,” said the principal, Issam Jammal.

His teachers were helping Mr. al-Hallaq search for a paying job. His parents had bought him an apartment and were working on finding him a wife.

“He would say, ‘Mama, marry me off,’” said his mother, Rana al-Hallaq.

Mr. al-Hallaq liked to be the first one at school and to retrieve the morning’s deliveries of warm pita. At around 6 a.m. on May 30, he was passing through the Lions Gate, one of the passageways through the Old City’s ancient walls, when officers called to him.

He ran, prosecutors said.

Two border police officers, alerted to a possible attacker, gave chase: a 19-year-old rookie and a 21-year-old commander nearing the end of his service.

Mr. al-Hallaq ran about 100 yards toward his school, just around the corner. The older officer fired at his legs but missed.

Mr. al-Hallaq turned into a storage area for city trash collectors. Witnesses said he cowered in a corner, his back against a wall.

His teacher, seeing the confrontation unfold, said she yelled, in Hebrew, that Mr. al-Hallaq was disabled.

The rookie officer told investigators he believed Mr. al-Hallaq was about to pull a weapon. He fired once. After his commander told him to cease firing, prosecutors say, the officer fired again. Israeli law prohibits his name from being published while the case remains under investigation.

Ten police surveillance cameras blanket the path Mr. al-Hallaq took along the Via Dolorosa. Two more cameras are trained on the spot where Mr. al-Hallaq fell.

But the day before, prosecutors said, the recorder the cameras were wired to had been unplugged.

The rookie officer’s lawyer, citing her client’s youth and inexperience, expressed confidence the case would be dropped.





No.7 article:
Pat Patterson, a Wrestling Star Who Came Out, Dies at 79

He delighted his fans, especially in villain roles. When he announced in 2014 that he was gay, they remained loyal.

Pat Patterson, the first major wrestling star to announce that he was gay, died on Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 79.

The cause of his death, in a hospital, was liver failure, said Bertrand Hébert, who collaborated with Mr. Patterson on his autobiography, “Accepted: How the First Gay Superstar Changed WWE” (2016).

After decades of working his way up through regional wrestling circuits in Montreal, Boston and San Francisco, Mr. Patterson found fame in the late 1970s, when he joined the World Wrestling Federation, which later became World Wrestling Entertainment. 

In the ring, Mr. Patterson was fond of surprise. Normally cast as a “heel,” the wrestling term for a villain, he attacked opponents at the exact moment a fight began. He slipped off his belt and wielded it like a whip. Digging into his tights, his hand would emerge wearing brass knuckles. His theatrics often drew booing frenzies.

“Whether I was the good guy or bad guy, I always worked best when I was the one leading the dance,” he wrote in his memoir. “The magic of what we do in a wrestling ring follows the same principle as in a good movie when the hero is down. That desperation needs to register with the audience.”

At the height of his career, he was crowned the “intercontinental champion” and headlined matches at Madison Square Garden, perhaps most famously against the wrestler known as Sgt. Slaughter in 1981. Even as he seemed to be winning the fight, Mr. Patterson staggered around the ring, playing up his seemingly grave injuries. As he was being declared the winner, he lay on the mat, acknowledging victory only with a labored raise of his fist.

As his career in the ring slowed in the mid-1980s, he joined the World Wrestling Federation as an executive, putting matches together and working with wrestlers on their shticks. He invented the Royal Rumble, a last-man-standing free-for-all with new competitors entering at regular intervals. That format is still in use today.

A close associate of Vince McMahon, the WWE chairman, Mr. Patterson occasionally re-entered the ring as Mr. McMahon’s bodyguard during Mr. McMahon’s rivalry with the wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austin in the late 1990s.

He announced he was gay in 2014 during an episode of “Legends’ House,” a reality television show on the WWE Network in which retired pro wrestlers were sequestered together.

Even though his friends and some wrestling insiders knew about his sexuality, Mr. Patterson rarely discussed it and had never done so publicly.

“For once in my life, I’m going to be me now,” he said on the show. “I survived all this being gay. I lived with that for 50-some years.”

In 2015, WWE staged a “Pat Patterson Appreciation Night” in Montreal, his hometown. “Pat Patterson,” Mr. McMahon said that night, “was different in an era when different was not cool,” and he mentioned “his life partner, Louie Dondero,” whom Mr. Patterson had been with for 40 years. Alone in the ring, Mr. Patterson sang “My Way,” and the packed arena filled with chants of “Merci, Pat!”

He was born Pierre Clermont in Montreal on Jan. 19, 1941. His father, Gérard Clermont, was a milkman who later went to work for Canadair making airplane parts; his mother, Simone Lupien, was a homemaker. Pierre had four brothers and sisters and every night was relegated — tellingly, he wrote in his memoir — to a pullout bed in a closet, sharing it with a brother.

Pierre began idolizing wrestlers and training to become one at about age 14. Unable to afford tickets to fight nights, he would cadge ticket stubs from audience members at intermission and catch the second half of a show. On other nights he would sneak in by standing where the wrestlers parked their cars and offer to take their bags inside for them.

Pierre fought his first bout under the Anglophone name Pat Patterson in 1958. (He changed his name legally in 2009.) Early in his Canadian career, he recalled, he sometimes traveled to towns “near the end of the known world” and wrestled there for five dollars a night.

When he was 16, he discovered a gay bar. With his first gay sexual experience, he wrote in his memoir, he found two things that had been largely missing from his life: “tenderness and affection.” He wound up coming out to his father, who responded with an epithet and demanded that he move out.

After graduating from his high school in Montreal, École Jean-Baptiste Meilleur, Mr. Patterson found a suitcase in a garbage can and headed for Boston, since he had once introduced himself to a wrestling promoter from there.

Once in Boston, he met Mr. Dondero, and the two remained a couple until Mr. Dondero died of a heart attack in 1998.

Though Mr. Patterson encountered homophobia in professional wrestling, he also found acceptance. Mad Dog Vachon was one of several fellow fighters who made a point of befriending Mr. Dondero and encouraging Mr. Patterson to bring him along when they traveled.

“I never introduced Louie as my boyfriend,” he wrote in his memoir. “It was always ‘my friend Louie.’ I still can’t call him my boyfriend. Somehow that feels wrong. He will always be ‘my friend Louie.’ And to me that’s so much more than a boyfriend.”

He is survived by four siblings: Claudette Clermont-Paquin, Lise Clermont and Michel and Richard Clermont.

Coming out proved to be one of his happiest decisions, Mr. Patterson wrote. And it resulted in an encounter he treasured, in Los Angeles in 2014.

“A FedEx truck slammed on the brakes in the middle of the street as I was walking on the sidewalk,” Mr. Patterson recalled in his memoir. “The driver, who was a big guy, jumped out of his truck and came toward me to tell me he was gay, too. He gave me a big hug, thanked me again, took a picture, jumped right back in his truck and drove off.”





No.8 article:
Most of California Locks Down Again as Coronavirus Strains Hospitals

As the United States surpassed 15 million cases, California’s situation despite its earlier restrictions was a cautionary tale.

MORAGA, Calif. — Most of California was on lockdown on Monday as two vast regions, Southern California and the heavily agricultural San Joaquin Valley, reached a serious enough shortage of hospital beds to trigger new restrictions set by the state to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

California is averaging 21,000 new known cases a day, twice as many as the state was reporting at its worst point this summer and by far its highest levels of the pandemic.

Some of the underlying reasons for the state’s surge have resonance for the nation as a whole. The notion that a state government could control the movements of 40 million people — a radical idea when California became the first state to introduce a lockdown in March — was perhaps optimistic in a society that puts so much stock in personal liberty.

“What we’ve seen is that those policies were insufficiently strict, or insufficiently enforced, or insufficiently complied with to make a difference with transmission,” said Dr. George Rutherford, an epidemiologist at the University of California, San Francisco.

[Sign up for our California Today newsletter, for the latest from the Golden State.]

As the United States reached 15 million coronavirus cases and neared 300,000 deaths, other states were scrambling to contain the spiraling health crisis. With the daily death reports on Monday, the nation surpassed its highest seven-day average of the pandemic, breaking the average of 2,232 set in April. 

In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Monday announced new criteria for rolling back the state’s reopening and reintroducing shutdown restrictions by region.

The New York State Department of Health will use hospitalization rates as thresholds for a shutdown and for restricting indoor dining, which Mr. Cuomo said could be barred in New York City as soon as Monday. “If you’re going to overwhelm the hospital system, then we have no choice but to go to close down,” he said.

With a stockpile of half a billion face masks and months of relatively strict social distancing mandates, California counted itself among the most aggressive states in combating the coronavirus. Yet the virulence of the pandemic, in which the virus exploits even the slightest missteps, has begun to overwhelm America’s richest and most populous state.

In San Diego, nine of 112 intensive-care beds are unoccupied at a university medical center, illustrating an alarming trend across Southern California. More than 10,000 Covid-19 patients are now hospitalized in the state, more than 70 percent above what it was two weeks ago.

That a state where masks are widely accepted finds itself in such dire straits is confounding to residents, who felt they had a leg up on parts of the country that resisted the advice of public health officials. That the virus soared back is a cautionary tale, a sign that California let down its guard.

“You go from thinking, like, ‘Oh, I don’t know anyone that has it,’ to in the blink of an eye, everyone you know has it, and you have it,” said Janet Rodriguez, a resident of Pico Rivera, outside Los Angeles, who believed she became infected at an outdoor meal with friends.

Over the last few months, even as public health experts and politicians urged people to remain vigilant, not everyone was on board, Dr. Rutherford said. Thanksgiving travel, he said, was a clear example.

“Nationally, usually 2.8 million people travel on Thanksgiving and that was down to one million this year. That’s a million too many. So you can see people are trying, but it’s just not enough.”

Already, he said, an acceleration in cases was being seen from that period.

In California, the overarching story throughout the pandemic has been of a state that by dint of its population has huge numbers of cases. On a per capita basis California has fewer cases than 40 other states, but its overall numbers are jarring: 1.3 million and counting.

Northern California has managed to maintain very low case and death rates compared with other parts of the country. San Francisco has reported 164 coronavirus-related deaths.

But even with per capita case totals in San Francisco that are one-fifth the level of states such as North Dakota or South Dakota, officials in the city are feeling the strain of the current surge. A month ago, the city’s contact tracers, whose job it is to connect with everyone an infected person may have come into contact with, were reaching 90 percent of contacts. Now, they are calling closer to 70 percent.

And because California has fewer hospital beds per capita than all but two states, it takes less to overwhelm the state’s health infrastructure.

Even before the new restrictions came into effect in parts of the state on Monday, counties in the San Francisco Bay Area announced last week that they would voluntarily take on the new limits.

The restrictions require closing indoor dining, playgrounds, hair and nail salons, zoos and wineries. The relatively few schools with in-person classes are allowed to stay open, and shopping centers and supermarkets can receive customers but must operate at no more than 20 percent capacity.

“It’s easy to say a lockdown’s the right thing to do, but the lockdown is going to affect personal care salons, retails down to 20 percent, zoos are closed,” said Dr. Chris Longhurst, the associate chief medical officer at the University of California, San Diego, Medical Center, where 8 percent of intensive-care beds remain available. “Will that make a difference? It’s hard to know for sure.”

On Monday, Gov. Gavin Newsom said the state was rolling out a new app, developed in partnership with Google and Apple, aimed at helping track and slow the spread in the state. The app allows those who choose to take part to be notified if they have potentially been exposed to someone who has tested positive for the coronavirus.

Other parts of the world have used such technology to track the virus, but critics suggested that the California effort was limited, coming months into the pandemic and being offered on only an optional basis, to residents who choose to take part.

Mr. Newsom and other California leaders have often said that the fate of the virus depends on individual decision-making.

For Ms. Rodriguez, the Pico Rivera resident, her habits shifted as the months wore on, she said. As California locked down early on, in March, she was exceedingly cautious and stopped seeing her friends and extended family, she said.

But as months passed, Ms. Rodriguez became restless. She started taking outdoor trips she thought were harmless: hiking with her friends while wearing a mask and riding her bike to visit her older sister’s family on their porch.

“Slowly we started feeling more comfortable to be around each other,” Ms. Rodriguez said. “A narrative I would keep telling myself is that I don’t know anyone who has gotten sick.”

Her social group — friends she would spend time around without masks — gradually ballooned to 10. And on her 28th birthday, in November, Ms. Rodriguez went out to lunch with three friends, including one who had received a negative test result that day.

But the friend later tested positive, Ms. Rodriguez said, and soon Ms. Rodriguez was experiencing headaches and had lost her senses of smell and taste.

Ms. Rodriguez tested positive, as did Ms. Rodriguez’s father, who is diabetic. Both have mostly recovered although Ms. Rodriguez still struggles to taste food.

For Ms. Rodriguez, it was apparently a meal at a restaurant. Others have pointed to other sources of their infections: trips to the gym, work at food-processing plants, family gatherings.

Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, the vice dean for population health and health equity at the School of Medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, described an impulse to “play the blame game” and figure out distinct sources of spread. But she said doing so was not particularly productive right now.

“We don’t have the data to pinpoint with any type of accuracy whether it’s this versus that,” Dr. Bibbins-Domingo said. “It also misses the point that once the transmission goes up as high as it is, we basically just have to lock down.”





No.9 article:
Steaks Grown From Human Cells Spark Interest and Outrage

An artist project offering an absurdist take on the lab-grown meat industry triggers a debate and backlash in London.

The installation of steak grown from human cells at the Design Museum in London was intended to criticize the meat industry’s rising use of living cells from animals. It ended up triggering a roiling debate about bioethics and the pitfalls of artistic critique.

Orkan Telhan, an artist and associate professor of fine arts at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design at the University of Pennsylvania, spent the last year imagining how climate change might impact the future of food consumption. He collaborated with scientists to create a project that included 3-D printed pancakes, bioengineered bread and genetically-modified salmon. But it was their provocative, and less appetizing, development of what they call “Ouroboros Steak,” meat cultivated from human cells and expired blood, that challenged the sustainability practices of the nascent cellular agriculture industry, which develops lab-grown products from existing cell cultures.

After the Ouroboros Steak traveled to the Design Museum in October, an intense online debate grew over the project’s motivations, and the artist received dozens of threatening emails and social media posts calling him “wicked” and “pure evil.” Some messages have demanded the destruction of the artwork. According to Mr. Telhan, who provided the emails and tweets to a reporter, “the focus quickly became centered on accusations that we were promoting cannibalism.”

Mr. Telhan added, “It was a misinterpretation that became politicized in all the wrong ways because humans eating each other is a taboo topic.”

Named after the ancient symbol of a snake eating its own tail, “Ouroboros Steak” examines, but does not promote, auto-cannibalism as a satirical take on the increasing demand for meat products around the world, which scientists have warned will likely contribute to carbon emissions and reduced biodiversity. The designers hoped that shocking audiences with the suggestion would trigger an examination of environmental responsibility and the clean-meat industry, which has promoted itself as producing “kill-free” food, although most companies heavily rely on fetal bovine serum harvested during the slaughter of pregnant cows for cell cultivation.

“Our project provides an absurd solution to a serious problem,” said Andrew Pelling, a biophysicist who partnered with Mr. Telhan and the industrial designer Grace Knight to create the steaks. “But in our scenario, you are at least giving consent by taking your own cells. In the world of lab-grown meats, you are taking cells from animals without their consent.”

As controversial as the project has become, the bite-size chunks of meat toured museums around the United States last year without a problem — even when cheekily displayed on a dish with silverware.

“I called it a sleeper hit,” said Michelle Millar Fisher, the curator who commissioned the steaks for the exhibition, “Designs for Different Futures,” which began at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and traveled to the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. “The provocation at the heart of this project is really fair. It’s important to ask ourselves where we get our proteins.”

There are no plans to remove the installation from the Design Museum before the exhibition ends in March 2021, although Ms. Fisher and Mr. Telhan will address the criticism of “Ouroboros Steak” in an upcoming online conversation. Priya Khanchandani, head of curatorial at the Design Museum, has also defended the project, calling it “the equivalent of a design dystopia.”

“It is asking a controversial question that in an epoch of severely depleted resources badly needs to be articulated,” she added.

Investment in cellular agriculture has increased at a remarkable pace over the last few years, even as serious discussions around the bioethics of lab-grown meat have taken a back seat. Market researchers estimate that the cultured meat business could reach $214 million by 2025, and more than double to $593 million by 2032. Earlier this year, the National Science Foundation Growing Convergence program awarded the University of California, Davis, a $3.5 million grant for cell-based, lab-grown meat research. And on Dec. 2, Singapore became the first government to approve the consumption of chicken cells grown in bioreactors, telling the San Francisco-based company Eat Just that it could sell its bioengineered chicken nuggets.

“We need productive critique if we are ushering in a new technology,” said Isha Datar, executive director of New Harvest, a nonprofit research institute focused on accelerating breakthroughs in cellular agriculture. “This technology holds the promise to create a more sustainable means of meat production, but how do we hold ourselves accountable to ensuring that happens?”

In recent decades, several artists have questioned the ethics of biotechnology by adopting the field’s methods and machinery. The Brazilian artist Eduardo Kac worked with a team of geneticists in 2002 to splice an albino rabbit’s DNA with that of a luminescent jellyfish to call attention to what the transgenic crossing of species’ characteristics might imply for the human genome. In 2019, the artist Jordan Eagles projected magnified images of blood onto the gallery walls of the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh as commentary on the stigma associated with L.G.B.T.Q. blood donations and those living with H.I.V./AIDS.

Despite the ongoing streams of hate mail flowing into Mr. Telhan’s inbox, the artist and his collaborators say they have received a significant number of inquiries from ordinary people interested in purchasing a kit to grow meat from their own cells (it is not for sale). Dr. Pelling said that he has also received inquiries from several venture capitalists looking to invest early in “Ouroboros Steak” or join an accelerator program. For the time being, however, there are no plans to bring meat made from human cells to market.

“This project has been provocative, maybe too provocative,” he joked. “That’s just a symptom of the excitement around cultured meat.”





No.10 article:
Being Boba Fett: Temuera Morrison Discusses ‘The Mandalorian’

Morrison, a veteran of the “Star Wars” film franchise, talks about his role as the fearsome bounty hunter on the Disney+ series “The Mandalorian.”

It’s been nearly 40 years since moviegoers saw Boba Fett, the fearsome bounty hunter of the original “Star Wars” saga, take an ill-fated tumble into the Great Pit of Carkoon, where he was presumed to have been devoured by the Sarlacc.

But death is often just a temporary state in “Star Wars,” and after his memorable (if mortifying) demise in “Return of the Jedi,” a very-much-alive Boba Fett has reappeared in subsequent novels, comic books and other media, having survived that seemingly fatal fall.

“The Mandalorian,” the Disney+ series set in the “Star Wars” universe, has also been building up to a fuller return of the enigmatic Fett: The character has been shown in cameo in past episodes, and in the most recent installment, “The Tragedy,” Fett played a central role when he came after the show’s title hero (Pedro Pascal) in search of his missing armor.

On “The Mandalorian,” Boba Fett is played by Temuera Morrison, a veteran of the “Star Wars” prequel movies. Morrison previously portrayed Jango Fett, the silver-suited soldier of fortune from “Episode II — Attack of the Clones” who provides the genetic template for the Republic’s Clone Army as well as for his own son, Boba, the future mercenary and nemesis of Han Solo.

(Multiple Morrisons appear in “Episode III — Revenge of the Sith,” in which he played various clone soldiers; he has also voiced Boba Fett and Jango Fett in several “Star Wars” video games, and his voice has been retroactively added to Boba Fett’s scenes in “The Empire Strikes Back” and “Return of the Jedi.”)

Morrison, who has also starred in films like “Once Were Warriors,” “Moana” and “Aquaman,” spoke on Friday about assuming the mantle of Boba Fett and his history with the “Star Wars” franchise. These are edited excerpts from that conversation.

How long have you been awaiting your opportunity to return to the “Star Wars” series?

There was a lot of stuff online about a possible “Star Wars” bounty-hunter film, and then I was watching all the new “Star Wars” movies coming out, wondering if they were ever going to do anything with Jango Fett. My agent and I had a number of discussions — when are they going to call me? But then I kept forgetting about it. In this day and age, they have a number of options. They could have called other people to play the part. They can go with a fresh face. They could have called the Rock. I felt so grateful that after all this time, something came to be.

What happened when you finally got the call that the series creator Jon Favreau and executive producer Dave Filoni wanted to meet with you?

I wasn’t even quite sure what “The Mandalorian” was about, but I kind of knew that Jango and Boba had their own Mandalorian history. At the time, I was in Los Angeles, meeting on another film, so I was pleasantly surprised to get the call. I actually got to the meeting quite early — I was so excited I got there about two hours early — and there were conceptual drawings on the wall. I saw an image that looked like me, and I said, I’m sure that’s me. But even then, I didn’t want to get too excited.

What did you discuss with them in that meeting?

I was just listening — I wasn’t discussing anything. I’m just nodding, going, yes, yes. Obviously they had their ideas about what they wanted to do, and they must have told me that they wanted me to play the role again. But I was so nervous that some of it was just going straight over my head. I was just going: “Wow! This is great.” It wasn’t until I got back in the car after the meeting that I went, “Is this actually going to happen?” But as you saw, it happened, all right.

Did they talk about his being a different, more seasoned Boba Fett than we saw in the early “Star Wars” films?

Yes. When we find Boba, he’s well-worn, and he’s been through a lot. He’s a survivor, and he’s weathered. Now it was time to find out more about what makes Boba tick. Is he more than just a simple man, trying to make his way through the galaxy? Is he tired of all the fighting? Is he tired of all the killing?

The one thing I can relate to is, I’m quite a mature man now and things always change. Sometimes you’re in Hollywood, in all the magazines and newspapers. And sometimes you end up in the fish and chip shop in New Zealand, where all the old magazines and papers go. You’re old news. [Laughs.]

Did your makeup and costume also help you find the character?

I was doing that kind of background work — what’s this guy going to look like? What’s he going to sound like? — and while they’re applying makeup, I’m going, well, here he is. We did quite a number of makeup tests and I worked closely with the makeup artist Brian Sipe. When I saw some of the scars on my face, I thought, well, maybe he does talk a little bit gravelly. Maybe his vocal cords have been affected as well. Then you put the costume on and it gives you a sense of power. The costume makes you feel like Superman. When I put the armor on for the first time, it just felt right.

How did you want to incorporate your cultural background into the role?

I come from the Maori nation of New Zealand, the Indigenous people — we’re the Down Under Polynesians — and I wanted to bring that kind of spirit and energy, which we call wairua. I’ve been trained in my cultural dance, which we call the haka. I’ve also been trained in some of our weapons, so that’s how I was able to manipulate some of the weapons in my fight scenes and work with the gaffi stick, which my character has.

How were you originally cast in the “Star Wars” prequels?

I give praise to George [Lucas] who made me Jango Fett in the first place. We filmed in Sydney, so he used quite a few actors from New Zealand and Australia. It wasn’t long after “Once Were Warriors” that I met with the casting people of “Star Wars,” and I feel that’s the movie that launched me in Hollywood. It wasn’t a big box-office movie here in America, but people in the industry saw it, and that opened a few more doors for me, that’s for sure.

What do you remember about your time on the set of “Attack of the Clones”?

I just had so much fun. I think I might have been killing George because I’d be singing on set, playing around with the weapons and wearing the outfits. I think I had too much fun. But I thought, man, if I get another opportunity to do this, I’m going to really get into it and do the best job that I can.

Did George Lucas explain to you that you would end up playing all these other characters who were cloned from Jango Fett?

Even when I finished the filming process, there was still quite a bit of work to do — I would keep getting calls from George: “OK, I just need you in the studio to voice some more stuff.” One moment I’m the voice of this, and then another guy, and then Commander Cody, and then a whole elite strike force. Things just kept going and going and going, but I didn’t mind.

Do you often hear from “Star Wars” fans who felt that Jango Fett suffered an unexpectedly abrupt death?

Yes, well, I know the feeling. I ended up watching “Attack of the Clones” in Dallas, and I was so excited to watch it with this new Dolby sound at the theater. I was just starting to enjoy myself when I got killed. “Wow, this is good. There I am.” [pause] “But anyway.” My journey in “Attack of the Clones” was pretty short-lived. But that was a long time ago. Now I’m back again.

I’m sorry that you’re going to get this question a lot, but “The Tragedy” doesn’t address how Boba Fett survived his encounter with the Sarlacc. Has that been explained to you? And do you know how the character stayed alive?

Ah, no, I don’t. There’s quite a bit of loose ends, and I’m not one of those guys that knows too much about the actual history. The fans of “Star Wars,” they have better knowledge of, What’s happened? How can he still be alive? I thought he was stuck in this place? I can find out more on the internet.

Has there been any talk of your returning as Boba Fett, whether on “The Mandalorian” or other “Star Wars” projects — even a series of his own?

I’m just going to have to wait and see. I think a lot of it depends on how things go with this season, but I don’t really know. I wanted to bring everything I had to that [episode] and give them a glimmer of what I can offer. There’s room for this to go someplace. I hope I’m going to be included.

Are you hoping to team up with Baby Yoda at some point?

Baby Yoda’s probably the biggest actor in Hollywood at the moment, but I never got to work with him very closely or with the people who move him around. I was using him in a not-so-good way, as bait. But hopefully I’ll get to meet him and we can have a little bonding session.





No.11 article:
Republicans Can’t Handle the Truth

You shouldn’t be surprised that they’re still backing Trump.

President Trump’s continuing attempts to overturn an election he lost decisively more than a month ago is, like so much of what he’s done in office, shocking but not surprising. Who imagined that he would go quietly?

What some people may not have been fully prepared for is the way Trump’s party as a whole has backed his dangerous delusions. According to a survey by The Washington Post, only 27 Republican members of Congress are willing to say that Joe Biden won. Despite the complete lack of evidence of significant fraud, two-thirds of self-identified Republicans said in a Reuters/Ipsos poll that the election was rigged.

But you really shouldn’t be surprised by this willingness to indulge malicious, democracy-endangering lies. After all, when was the last time Republicans accepted a politically inconvenient fact? It has been clear for years that the modern G.O.P. is a party that can’t handle the truth.

Most obviously, Republican refusal to accept the election results follows months of refusal to acknowledge the dangers of the coronavirus, even as Covid-19 has become the nation’s leading cause of death, and even as a startling number of people in Trump’s orbit have been infected.

Sure enough, virus denial and vote denial converged almost perfectly on Saturday, when Trump addressed a large, mostly unmasked crowd in Georgia — creating a potential superspreader event — and demanded that the governor overturn the state’s election results. The next day Rudy Giuliani, who has been directing Trump’s efforts to cling to office, was hospitalized with the virus.

The thing is, Republican rejection of reality didn’t start in 2020, or even with the Trump era. Climate change denial — including claims that global warming is a hoax perpetrated by an international cabal of scientists — has been a badge of partisan identity for many years. Crazy conspiracy theories about the Clintons were mainstream on the right through much of the 1990s.

And one half-forgotten episode in particular seems to me to have foreshadowed much of what we’re seeing right now: Republican reactions to the mostly successful introduction of Obamacare.

The Affordable Care Act went into full effect in 2014, amid dire predictions by Republicans. The act, they claimed, would drive insurance premiums sky-high, fail to reduce the number of uninsured, and have a devastating effect on employment.

None of that happened. Instead, millions of Americans gained health insurance coverage. Job creation continued, with three million jobs added in the year following the A.C.A.’s implementation. Obamacare may have fallen somewhat short of its sponsors’ hopes (although nobody expected it to yield universal coverage), but from the beginning it helped many Americans, and was nothing like the disaster opponents predicted.

As far as I can tell, however, no prominent Republican was willing to admit that the party’s apocalyptic warnings had been proved false, let alone talk about why they were wrong. Nor, of course, did Republicans make any effort to come up with a better health plan. (It has been almost 11 years since Obamacare was signed into law, and we’re still waiting.) Instead, party leaders simply pretended that the promised catastrophe had, in fact, materialized.

For example, John Boehner, the speaker of the House at the time, insisted that there had been a “net loss” of people with health insurance. After that three million-job gain, Jeb Bush (remember him?) insisted that Obamacare was “the greatest job suppressor in the so-called recovery.”

And in a move that prefigured the Trump team’s desperate attempts to find evidence for election fraud, right-wing groups went in search of health care horror stories, tales of ordinary Americans devastated by Obamacare.

To be fair, while there is no evidence of significant electoral fraud, some people really were hurt by health reform — mainly young, healthy individuals who previously had cheap policies and made too much money to be eligible for subsidies. But these weren’t the victims Republicans were looking for. Instead, they peddled tales of older, working-class Americans who supposedly had lost access to affordable insurance.

None of these tales stood up to scrutiny. But that didn’t matter to the G.O.P. As I wrote at the time, Republicans had already — pre-Trump — entered the era of post-truth politics.

Now, there’s obviously a big difference in immediate impact between refusing to accept evidence that contradicts your policy preconceptions and refusing to accept the results of an election. But the mind-set is the same.

The point is that once a party gets into the habit of rejecting facts it doesn’t want to hear, one fact it’s bound to reject sooner or later is the fact that it lost an election. In that sense there’s a straight line from, say, the Republican embrace of climate denial to the party’s willingness to go along with Trump’s attempts to retain power.

And the G.O.P.’s previous history of dealing with inconvenient reality gives us a pretty good idea about when the party will accept Joe Biden as the legitimate winner of the 2020 election — namely, never.





No.12 article:
Indoor Dining May Be Banned Again, Threatening Many N.Y.C. Restaurants

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced a new restrictions model that could end indoor dining in the city as early as next week.

Since the pandemic forced most New York City businesses to shut down nine months ago, the restaurant industry has warned that it was facing a crisis. 

Though many restaurateurs tried to adapt once some of the restrictions were lifted — shifting to takeout and delivery, then moving outside, then cautiously welcoming customers indoors — they say that they are still barely hanging on.

Now, New York City’s restaurants face yet another possible blow. On Monday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, citing the growing spread of the coronavirus, announced a new restrictions model that could halt indoor dining in the city as soon as next week if hospitalization rates do not stabilize — a prospect he said seemed likely. 

The move, which Mr. Cuomo said was spurred by recent federal guidance that described indoor dining as “particularly high-risk,” could further devastate the industry at the same time that plunging temperatures threaten to keep customers away from outdoor dining.

Restaurant owners are warning that the industry, which employs thousands of low-income workers and is vital to the city’s culture, risks even further collapse without some form of aid.

“They’re not going to make it,” said Tren’ness Woods-Black, the vice president of communications at Sylvia’s, the soul food mainstay in Harlem. “That’s the truth of the matter. There are a lot of businesses that simply will not make it. And that’s heartbreaking.”

Mr. Cuomo’s announcement came as the virus has been spreading more rapidly in New York City. According to the state, the city’s seven-day average rate of positive test results last week surpassed 4 percent for the first time since late May. On Sunday, 1,416 people were believed to be hospitalized with the virus, according to state data, the city’s highest total since early June.

Included in the governor’s new plan for restrictions is a “clamp down” on indoor dining in any region where hospitalization rates do not stabilize for five days. Mr. Cuomo did not provide a specific measure or threshold. His office did not immediately respond to questions seeking more details.

Though restaurants in New York City would be required to end indoor dining, restaurants in other regions where hospitalization rates do not stabilize would have to reduce their indoor dining capacity from 50 percent to 25 percent.

New York is not the only state taking this patchwork approach. In California, where cases are also climbing, shutdown restrictions also vary by region.

Mr. Cuomo echoed calls for federal financial assistance, saying restaurants and bars had faced “a long year and they have bills to pay.” However he did not provide any details about what threshold would need to be met for indoor dining to resume once closed, providing an uncertainty that frustrated the city’s restaurant owners.

“When you cut indoor dining without a plan, it really sends the wrong message to everyone,” said George Constantinou, who owns three restaurants in Brooklyn. “To customers, to employees, and everyone in the industry.”

Mr. Constantinou added that for months, New York City’s 25,000 restaurants had been in a state of constant whiplash as they adapted to shifting public health guidance and government regulations.

“They keep changing the laws on what’s safe, what’s not safe,” he said. “I feel like everyone’s confused.”

In March, when state officials closed all nonessential businesses, many restaurants overhauled their business models — and in some cases, their menus — to try and survive on takeout and delivery alone. The federal Paycheck Protection Program helped provide some relief, but with fewer customers, many employees lost their jobs.

The summer brought some hope with an outdoor dining program, but many restaurants described it as a tenuous lifeline at best that brought them a fraction of their business. Mr. Constantinou also noted that outdoor dining came with financial costs, as restaurants rushed to set up spaces that met the city’s guidelines.

The New York City Hospitality Alliance, an industry group, estimated that fewer than half of the city’s restaurants took part in the program.

Indoor dining only resumed in New York City at the end of September, even as restaurants in other parts of the state were allowed to resume serving customers indoors throughout the summer.

But there were limits. Establishments were held to seating at 25 percent capacity and had to keep their tables spaced at least six feet apart — a significant reduction in potential business, especially at cramped city restaurants where diners used to be packed into tables. 

Still, both Ms. Woods-Black and Mr. Constantinou said that their restaurants welcomed the change at the time, noting that every table helped with the bottom line in a business where, even before the pandemic, profit margins were often tight.

Ms. Woods-Black said that Sylvia’s had started to see more of its business shift indoors as the weather cooled. About 60 percent of its sales from last week were from indoor dining, she said.

The restaurant had only recently started to hire back staff members that it had laid off to accommodate the change in demand. Now it was facing the prospect of dismissing employees again.

“They’re very worried,” she said of her workers. “And we’re worried for them.”

Still, Sylvia’s planned to do whatever it would take to stay open, she said. Until the governor’s order took effect, the restaurant would continue to serve customers indoors.

Mr. Constantinou, who owns Bogota Latin Bistro, Miti Miti Modern Mexican and Medusa Greek Taverna in Park Slope, said that he would spend the next week adjusting his staffing in preparation for the end of indoor dining.

Already, he said, he had been reducing shifts at his restaurants as cooler weather brought fewer customers to his outdoor tables. Over the course of the pandemic, he went from employing more than 150 people to around 80, and he anticipated more cuts would come.

Given the numerous limits placed on indoor dining, he had anticipated that more New Yorkers would choose to eat inside, helping his revenues during what was normally a slower winter season.

“If you have a choice to sit outdoors at 30 degrees or indoors at 25 percent capacity, I would say eight out of 10 people would sit indoors as long as it’s not crowded,” he said. “Because people don’t want to freeze.”

Instead, he faced the prospect that the restaurants he had worked to cautiously reopen, whose atmosphere he had carefully cultivated, would again fall silent.

“The restaurants will be dead again,” he said. “And to have outdoor dining in a dead restaurant — it’s not the vibe you really want to give out.”

Tina Maria Oppedisano, the manager of Il Bacco restaurant in Queens, said an end to indoor dining would be detrimental to her business. 

“He has scared everybody,” she said of Mr. Cuomo. “My business has gone down in the past three weeks. It’s been a tremendous decline because people are scared to come out.”

Though the restaurant has a large rooftop, it’s too cold for customers to sit outdoors. Il Bacco has lost millions of dollars in revenue, and employee shifts were cut to avoid layoffs, Ms. Oppedisano said. 

Ms. Oppedisano has been critical of the governor’s restrictions on New York City restaurants and was part of a group that sued the governor and mayor over restrictions on indoor dining. Il Bacco is just 500 feet away from neighboring Nassau County, where indoor dining would likely not close in the coming days.

Though Ms. Oppedisano said she doubted the governor would go through with pulling the plug on indoor dining next week, she has been looking into third-party delivery apps like Grubhub and debating whether to spend money on heating. 

“As long as we are abiding by all the laws and all the safety precautions,” she said, “I don’t understand why we can’t just conduct our business.”





No.13 article:
‘Nobody Sees Us’: Testing-Lab Workers Strain Under Demand

In March, April Abbott dragged a hospital bed into her office at Deaconess Hospital in Evansville, Ind. In the nine months since, she has slept in it a half-dozen times while working overnight in her clinical microbiology laboratory, where a team of some 40 scientists toils around the clock running coronavirus tests.

These all-night stints in the lab pull Dr. Abbott, the director of microbiology at Deaconess, away from her husband and three children, the oldest of whom is 8. A couple of times a week, she heads home for dinner, then drives back to work after the kids have gone to bed. She is at the lab when machines break. She is there to vet testing protocols for the lab. She is there when new testing sites open, flooding the lab with more samples to process.

“I do it because there is always more work to be done than the hours to do it in,” she said.

Nearly a year into a pandemic that has claimed more than 276,000 American lives, some 193 million tests for the coronavirus have been processed nationwide. Millions more will be needed to detect and contain the virus in the months ahead. Behind these staggering figures are thousands of scientists who have been working nonstop to identify the coronavirus in the people it infects.

Across the nation, testing teams are grappling with burnout, repetitive-stress injuries and an overwhelming sense of doom. As supply chains sputter and laboratories rush to keep pace with diagnostic demand, experts warn that the most severe shortage stymieing America’s capacity to test is not one that can be solved by a wider production line or a more efficient machine. It is a dearth of human power: the dwindling ranks in a field that much of the public does not know even exists.

When shortages arise, “there’s workarounds for almost everything else,” said Karissa Culbreath, the medical director and infectious disease division chief at TriCore Reference Laboratories in New Mexico. “But people are irreplaceable.”

In the absence of trained workers to process and analyze the nation’s tests, America’s diagnostic infrastructure will not merely wrinkle and slow, experts said. It will collapse.

“Doctors and nurses are very visible, but we work behind the scenes,” said Marissa Larson, a medical laboratory scientist supervisor at the University of Kansas Health System. “And we are underwater.”

The gold standard in coronavirus diagnostics hinges on a decades-old laboratory method called polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R. The method is a signal amplifier: It can copy genetic material, including fragments of the genome of the coronavirus, over and over until it reaches detectable levels, making the virus discoverable even when it is extremely scarce in the body. P.C.R. is the metric against which all new testing techniques are compared; in the diagnostic landscape, few can match its ability to root out infection.

But such accuracy comes at a cost. Even highly automated forms of P.C.R. require people to handle tubes, babysit machines and scrutinize ambiguous results.

P.C.R.-based coronavirus tests also deal in DNA, the molecular language in which the human genome is written. The coronavirus, however, stores its genetic information in a close cousin called RNA, which must first be carefully extracted from virus particles, then converted to its more testable counterpart before diagnostics can proceed.

When laboratories are well stocked, P.C.R. diagnostics can run from start to finish in just a few hours. But since the spring, laboratories around the country have been hamstrung by severe, often unpredictable shortages of chemicals and plasticware needed for these protocols. 

And caseloads have skyrocketed; America’s testing capacity has increased since March, but it has been vastly overtaken by the demand for tests.

“The spring pales in comparison to what we are experiencing now,” said Dr. Culbreath, of TriCore, which has run more than 600,000 coronavirus tests.

Amid the pandemonium, labs must still work through their queues for other infectious disease tests, including for sexually transmitted infections. “Labs are trying to maintain our standard of operation with everything else, with a pandemic on top of it,” Dr. Culbreath said.

Darcy Velasquez, a medical technologist at Children’s Hospital Colorado in Aurora, where cases continue to surge, is fighting to keep pace with some of her institution’s highest sample volumes yet. Her shifts in the lab begin at 5:30 a.m., sometimes to a double-door refrigerator already brimming with 500 tubes, each containing a fresh patient swab and a small volume of liquid — more than a full day’s work for one person.

Ms. Velasquez typically spends the first couple hours of her day frantically trying to clear as much of the backlog as she can before another batch arrives around 8 a.m., when the local clinic opens.

As much as an hour of that time might be spent simply de-swabbing samples: manually unscrewing and rescrewing caps and plucking out swabs, all without contaminating one sample with the contents of another.

“Sometimes you walk into these refrigerators full of specimens and you think, ‘I don’t even know where to start,’” Ms. Velasquez said.

At Georgia’s state public health laboratory, direct handling of patient samples must be done with extra safeguards to minimize the chances of exposing personnel to infectious virus. Taylor Smith, a virologist and technologist at the lab, spends a large fraction of her workday in a full-body gown, sleeve covers, two pairs of gloves, an N95 respirator and goggles.

Simply donning it all is exhausting. And although Ms. Smith has long been deft with lab instruments, the work always feels high-stakes, she said: “You’re constantly thinking about how to not contaminate yourself.”

To keep their experiments running, lab workers must be proficient mechanics. The instruments needed for diagnostic tests were not built to run continuously for months on end. But as more facilities transition to 24/7 testing, malfunctions and breakdowns have become more common, requiring people to fix them.

Tyler Murray, a clinical laboratory scientist at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, spends his days listening for telltale alarms — a sign that one of his instruments has failed or is low on chemical ingredients.

“I make sure I talk nicely to them,” Mr. Murray said of the lab’s machines, which he decorates with gleaming gold stars when they perform at their best. “I say, ‘Hey bud, you worked hard this week, I’m proud of you.’”

But morale is low among the humans. After 10-hour shifts at U.T.M.B., Mr. Murray heads home and lies on the floor beside his two cats, Arya and Cleo. “The fatigue builds,” he said. “You can’t help but feel it.”

The monotonous motions that lab workers engage in daily take a physical and mental toll. Technologists are nursing repetitive-use injuries, a result of hours of maneuvering tubes and pipettes, which take up and dispense liquids with the press of a plunger. Workers must also be vigilant sanitizers, pausing regularly to swap out soiled gloves, clear their workspaces of plastic debris and scour surfaces with harsh chemicals that leave their clothes freckled with stains.

“We’re accustomed to holding things up in the background,” said Natalie Williams-Bouyer, the director of the division of clinical microbiology at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. “We enjoy doing it because we know we’re helping people.”

But the enduring anonymity of testing labs has begun to splinter some spirits. Elizabeth Stoeppler, a senior medical technologist in the molecular microbiology lab at the University of North Carolina’s School of Medicine, said that an old volleyball injury, which inflamed a tendon in her elbow years ago, had flared up after months of long stints in the lab. A few of her co-workers are wrestling with carpal tunnel syndrome.

The strain has begun to affect Ms. Stoeppler outside of the lab. She bolts awake at 3 a.m., panicked about the previous day’s work. She recently started a prescription medication to improve her chances of getting a full night’s sleep.

“There’s signs everywhere that say, ‘Heroes work here,’” she said of her hospital. She loves her job, she added. “But nobody sees us. We’re just in the basement, or in the back.”

On a good day in a diagnostics lab, the phone might ring only a few times, with messages from clinicians inquiring about samples. But when “things are going poorly, it just rings off the hook,” said Rachael Liesman, the director of clinical microbiology at the University of Kansas Health System, where she frequently clocks 15-hour shifts.

To keep the lab on track, Dr. Liesman has put in some hours running tests herself — a task that is not a part of her normal job description. “It’s very strange to have your director on the bench,” said Ms. Larson, a supervisor in the lab. “When you see that, some flare guns should be going up.”

In mid-November, Dr. Liesman’s lab suffered a three-day stretch during which a supply of chemicals nearly ran dry on a Friday, then a pair of machines failed on Saturday and Sunday.

“We were basically drowning in specimens” by Monday, she said. “I was paged by three different providers while brushing my teeth.”

Morale in the labs has flagged as the country continues to shatter records for caseloads, hospitalizations and deaths. The nation’s testing experts know these statistics better than anyone: They count the numbers themselves, sample by sample. But they are also easy targets of criticism and complaint.

“There is always this undercurrent of, it’s never good enough,” said Dr. Abbott, of Deaconess Hospital in Indiana. “It’s devastating. We’re working as hard as we can.”

Chelsa Ashley, a medical laboratory scientist at Deaconess, aches to be home with her three children, to whom she is a single mother, after 13-hour shifts in the lab. Once there, she struggles to leave her work behind.

“There’s that panicked feeling that I should have stayed to take care of our community samples,” she said. “There’s guilt, when you walk away.”

In the past few months, Ms. Ashley’s children, who are 18, 13 and 10, have had to become substantially more self-sufficient. Shaylan, her youngest, rouses herself from bed at 5:50 a.m. every day to spend a few moments with her mother before she heads off to work.

“Even if it’s only 10 minutes, it’s 10 minutes that we talk,” Ms. Ashley said. “That is one thing that has not changed.”

For some, the tidal wave of stress brought on by the pandemic has proved untenable. Since March, scientists have trickled out of laboratories, leaving chasms of expertise in a field that for years has struggled to recruit fresh talent.

Joanne Bartkus, the former director of the Minnesota Department of Public Health Laboratory, retired from her position in May after a dozen years on the job. She pinned one of the pandemic’s crucial inflection points to March 6, the day President Trump publicly remarked that “anybody that wants a test can get a test.”

“That was when the poop hit the fan,” Dr. Bartkus said. Within about a week, her team went from receiving fewer than a dozen coronavirus testing samples each day to being inundated with roughly 1,000 daily specimens.

It was unlike anything Dr. Bartkus had seen in her years at the institution. In 2009, the year of the H1N1 flu pandemic, Minnesota’s public health laboratory tested about 6,000 patient samples. This spring, it broke that record in a couple of weeks.

Dr. Bartkus, who is 65, had already planned to retire before the year was up. By the time April came, she had hastened her timeline to May: “It didn’t take me long before I said, ‘OK, I’m done with this.’”

In interviews, several scientists noted that they were struggling to fill vacancies in their labs, some that were left open by overwhelmed technologists who had recently quit their jobs. While the need for such workers has grown in recent years, the number of training programs that build these skill sets has dropped.

“Medical technologists are a dying breed,” Ms. Stoeppler, of the University of North Carolina, said.

In Indiana, Dr. Abbott, of Deaconess Hospital, said her team had already performed more than 100,000 tests for the coronavirus. But the most chaotic months are most likely still ahead.

For the first time in nine years, Dr. Abbott is doing hands-on work in the lab to help her staff cope with rising demand. She has yet to take more than a day off at a time since the pandemic’s start, but insists that she can soldier on: “This is out of the sheer will of not wanting to be beaten by this pandemic.”

In the mini-refrigerator in her office, next to rotating bags of salad greens and a small cavalry of Diet Cokes, sits an unopened bottle of champagne that she purchased in March, intending to uncork it upon reaching a worthy testing milestone. Nothing has yet felt like enough.

“I can’t tell you what will feel like a reason to celebrate at this point,” Dr. Abbott said. “Ask me after the next 100,000 tests.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.14 article:
As Brexit Deadline Looms, Boris Johnson Takes Personal Control of Talks

With negotiators at impasse, the prime minister hopes he and European leaders can hammer out a trade deal to replace the one that expires on Dec. 31.

LONDON — With time running out and the gaps still wide, Prime Minister Boris Johnson took personal control of the Brexit negotiations on Monday, declaring that he would travel to Brussels later this week for a last-ditch effort to strike a trade agreement between Britain and the European Union.

Mr. Johnson’s announcement, after a 90-minute phone call with the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, raised the stakes as the talks enter their endgame. After 11 months of grinding negotiations, it appears, only a face-to-face meeting of political leaders can produce a breakthrough.

“We agreed that the conditions for finalizing an agreement are not there,” Mr. Johnson and Ms. von der Leyen said in a statement, adding that they had asked their negotiators to “prepare an overview of the remaining differences to be discussed in a physical meeting in Brussels in the coming days.”

The key sticking points, they said, were fishing rights, and state aid and fair competition for industry — issues that have divided the two sides from the start.

Analysts welcomed Mr. Johnson’s readiness to jump in, which came after days of intensive negotiations that had failed to narrow the gaps. With a deadline of Dec. 31 to conclude a deal, there were growing fears that the talks might end in failure, throwing Britain’s relationship with the 27-nation bloc into flux.

“Would Boris Johnson really go to Brussels if there were no longer any hope?” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the political risk consultancy Eurasia Group. “It is the moment either for a deal, or for a final attempt to demonstrate that both sides have tried very hard to to get to a deal that was ultimately out of reach.”

If Mr. Johnson’s talks with Ms. von der Leyen were to fail to break the impasse, Britain’s strategy, he said, would be to put the issue on the agenda of E.U. heads of government, who are gathering in Brussels on Thursday.

That reflects a belief that the negotiators have achieved as much as they can, and that a new political impetus is needed to break the deadlock. But Mr. Rahman warned that if Britain saw it as an opportunity to try to fracture the unity of the E.U. member states, that would likely backfire.

Britain left the European Union in January, but little has changed yet because it remains tied to the bloc’s trade rules through the end of the year. That arrangement was supposed to give London and Brussels time to hammer out a long-term trade agreement.

Failure to strike a deal would compound the damage done by the coronavirus pandemic on both sides of the English Channel. But it would have far greater implications in Britain, where it would mean new trade barriers with the country’s biggest partner, as well as potential friction with the United States.

Even with a deal, there will be more checks on goods at border points. The British intend to phase in most of these controls over six months to limit disruption, but France is unlikely to do the same, which could leave cross-Channel ports clogged and ferries stranded.

On Monday, Downing Street accepted that food prices would likely rise in Britain without a trade deal, though it argued these hikes would be modest. Food importers have warned that some products, including some fruit and vegetables, could disappear temporarily from grocery shelves.

Tariffs could have a devastating impact on some sectors and put the government under enormous pressure to step in to provide compensation. Among the hardest hit would be sheep farmers, whose exports of lamb to the European Union would be hit by tariffs likely to average around 48 percent.

Some automakers are warning that the imposition of export tariffs could make their business untenable. Even with a trade deal, they could face problems, depending on the fine print of the agreement and specifications of what proportion of non-British components they are allowed to use in manufacturing.

“Take a moment to step back from the details and reflect on the sheer absurdity of breaking away from our nearest neighbours, who take 45 percent of our exports, without even a basic trade deal,” wrote Peter Ricketts, a former British national security adviser, on Twitter.

There would be problems on the European side, too, particularly for Ireland, whose economy is linked closely to Britain’s. German, French, Dutch and Belgian companies would suffer as well, though the pain would likely be more spread out, reducing its impact in any single country.

That has led European diplomats to conclude that Britain holds the weaker hand, particularly as its prospects of striking a trade deal with the United States have dimmed since Joseph R. Biden Jr. became president-elect.

Nonetheless, Mr. Johnson’s ultimate decision on any possible deal probably depends on his calculation of the blowback from his own restive Conservative Party backbench lawmakers. The pro-Brexit faction forced out Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, and has warned Mr. Johnson he has limited room for maneuver.

“The hard-line minority in Johnson’s party wield a lot of weight, especially when they play on the sovereignty heartstrings,” said Bobby McDonagh, a former Irish ambassador to Britain. “There is a view of sovereignty in London that is hard to come to grips with because it doesn’t seem to take account of the sovereignty of other countries.”

On Monday, the Johnson government brought back to the House of Commons a bill that would renege on parts of its withdrawal agreement with Brussels that relate to Northern Ireland — a reversal that has infuriated many European officials. The House of Lords had rejected parts of the legislation, which the government acknowledges violate international law.

But in separate meetings, British officials extended an olive branch, telling European Union officials that they would strike the offending language from the legislation if the two sides struck a trade deal.

Britain’s treatment of Northern Ireland is also important to its relationship with President-elect Biden. He expressed concern during the campaign that Mr. Johnson’s negotiating tactics could threaten the Good Friday Agreement, which settled decades of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland.

The terms of Britain’s trade relationship with the United States will not change, with or without a Brexit deal. It will be covered by World Trade Organization rules, as it was before Brexit.

Mr. Biden has ruled out new trade agreements with any country until the United States improves its own competitiveness. Trade experts warned that Britain could be handicapped in other ways if the talks with Brussels ended in failure.

“If there is no U.K.-E.U. deal, it will make it very difficult to reach agreement with the U.S., including on such basic topics as rules of origin, agriculture trade and food safety,” said Daniel M. Price, a former top trade adviser to President George W. Bush.





No.15 article:
Cliff Joseph, Artist, Activist and Therapist, Dies at 98

After agitating for the inclusion of Black artists in New York museums, he helped introduce a multicultural perspective to the field of art therapy.

Cliff Joseph, an artist raised in Harlem who in the 1960s and ’70s led protests against major New York museums to advocate for the inclusion of Black artists, and who later pioneered the practice of multiculturalism in the field of art therapy, died on Nov. 8 in a hospital in Chicago. He was 98.

His wife, Ann Joseph, confirmed the death.

In 1963, Mr. Joseph, whose paintings depicted the social unrest sweeping the nation, was struggling as an artist in New York. He was in Washington that August, standing at the front of the crowd at the Lincoln Memorial when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech.

“I was so moved by that experience and what it said to me about the way I should be using my art skills,” Mr. Joseph said in a 2006 documentary, “Conversations With Cliff Joseph.” “This really awakened me.”

Mr. Joseph and a group of other artists founded the Black Emergency Cultural Coalition, which began agitating for the inclusion of African-American artists in New York museums.

When the Metropolitan Museum of Art opened the show “Harlem on My Mind” in 1969, their cause gained attention. The exhibition, which documented the culture and history of Harlem, included no paintings or sculptures by Black artists. Mr. Joseph and his fellow activists picketed outside the museum for days with signs that read, “Harlem on Whose Mind?”

Their voices were heard.

Mayor John V. Lindsay criticized the exhibition. The New York State Division of Human Rights denounced it. And the Met’s curator, Thomas Hoving, issued a rare public apology.

In 1971, the Whitney Museum of American Art opened an exhibition called “Contemporary Black Artists in America.” The coalition criticized the museum for assigning a white curator to the project.

“It is essential,” Mr. Joseph said in a statement, “that it be selected by one whose wisdom, strength and depth of sensitivity regarding Black art is drawn from the well of his own Black experience.”

The Whitney’s director, John I.H. Baur, told the news media, “The coalition stands for a kind of separatism I don’t believe in.”

Fifteen Black artists, including the sculptor Richard Hunt and the painter Sam Gilliam, withdrew from the exhibition on its opening day. Soon after that, the group staged a protest show, “Rebuttal to Whitney Museum Exhibition,” at Acts of Art, a Black-owned gallery in Greenwich Village.

After the inmate uprising at the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York in 1971, the group lobbied for the implementation of arts programs for prisoners, and Mr. Joseph sent a letter to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.

“Those who are at the head of the oppressive system know well the power of art and fear it in the hands of the people,” he wrote. “That is why power structures throughout man’s history have sought to suppress and control the creative artist.”

That same year, their arts program, often taught by artists from the coalition, was implemented at the Tombs in Lower Manhattan, later expanding to correctional facilities across the country.

In his 40s, Mr. Joseph entered the mental health field of art therapy, helping to introduce concepts like racial sensitivity and cultural competency to the profession.

He taught art therapy at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn for 11 years and worked at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was the first Black member of the American Art Therapy Association and became president of the New York Art Therapy Association in 1981.

In the 2006 documentary, Mr. Joseph reflected on his contributions to multiculturalism in his field.

“It’s not that a person has to be Black to deal with Black patients,” he said. “But if a white person comes in to deal with a group of Black people, that person should know that a culture-specific approach should be used.”

Otherwise, he continued, “they’re not going to understand where you’re coming from, and you won’t understand where they’re coming from, and nothing is going to happen.”

Clifford Ricardo Joseph was born on June 23, 1922, in Panama City to a large Caribbean family. His father, Samuel, worked on the construction of the Panama Canal, and his mother, Leontine (Ellis) Joseph, was a maid. When he was 18 months old, his family settled in Harlem.

Cliff’s older brother, Freddy, aspired to become a police officer; the same day he was admitted into the academy, he was fatally shot by a man in his apartment building. To support his family, Mr. Joseph enlisted in the Army as a teenager. He later served overseas in a field artillery unit.

After World War II, Mr. Joseph studied at Pratt on the G.I. Bill, graduating with a B.F.A. in 1952. While working at a welfare center, he met Ann Voggenthaler, whom he married in the mid-1960s.

A few years after attending the March on Washington with his wife and hearing Dr. King speak, Mr. Joseph mailed Dr. King some Christmas cards he had designed honoring the young girls killed in the Ku Klux Klan bombing of a church in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963. Dr. King sent a letter to Mr. Joseph’s East Village apartment.

“I was deeply impressed and very grateful for your generous gesture,” he wrote. “It was especially gratifying since I have always felt, since I first saw it, that your art expressed the meaning and sacrifice of our struggle.”

In the 1960s, Mr. Joseph helped take care of psychiatric patients at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx, where he befriended Edith Kramer, a prominent art therapist. Ms. Kramer invited him to watch her work with children at the hospital, and Mr. Joseph was moved by what he witnessed. She then brought him to the early meetings of the American Art Therapy Association.

“I got into this room with all these people and I didn’t see anyone that I could recognize as being of my race,” Mr. Joseph said in 2006. “I felt there was some politeness when I was introduced, but I didn’t feel I was being welcomed in.”

The American Art Therapy Association gave Mr. Joseph an award in 2008 acknowledging his commitment to social activism in the field. He was also featured in a documentary, “Wheels of Diversity in Art Therapy: Pioneers of Color,” which profiled several therapists who introduced a multicultural perspective.

In 2001, after years living in the rent-regulated Westbeth Artists Housing complex in the West Village, Mr. Joseph and his wife moved to Chicago, where they later joined the neighborhood protest of a petroleum coke storage facility on the Southeast Side owned by Charles and David Koch. Mr. Joseph also wrote a science-fiction novel, “The Revelation of Number 10: A Galactic Neighbor’s Appeal.”

In addition to his wife, Mr. Joseph is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Clifford Jr. and Leonette Joseph; a brother, Ronald; and three grandchildren. A daughter, Zuri Joseph, died in 2013.

In 2018, Hunter College in New York revisited “Rebuttal to Whitney Museum Exhibition” with an event at its campus gallery. The exhibition remounted works from the original 1971 show, including one of Mr. Joseph’s oil paintings, “The Superman.”

That painting depicts a bloated Klansman holding a rifle and a cross standing in front of a Confederate flag. But he is naked, carrying his white robe on his arm, and Mr. Joseph has rendered him spectral and forlorn.





No.16 article:
‘This Is Insanity’: Start-Ups End Year in a Deal Frenzy

Investors are tripping over one another to give hot start-ups money. DoorDash and Airbnb are going public. The good times are baaack.

SAN FRANCISCO — Hopin, a virtual events start-up in London, had seven employees and was valued at $38 million at the beginning of the year. Johnny Boufarhat, the company’s chief executive, wasn’t planning on raising more money.

But as the pandemic spread and more people held virtual events, Hopin’s business took off. Unsolicited offers from investors started pouring in. “It’s like a drumbeat,” Mr. Boufarhat said. “That’s become the new way for investors to tempt founders.”

In June, Hopin raised a fresh $40 million from venture capital firms such as Accel and IVP. Last month, without even building a formal presentation, the company garnered a further $125 million, valuing it at $2.1 billion — a 77-fold increase from a year ago.

And still, Mr. Boufarhat said, “investors are reaching out almost daily.”

At the onset of the pandemic, warnings of start-up doom abounded. Those largely faded after the initial shock of the coronavirus wore off. Now, as the new reality of remote work, school, shopping and socializing supercharges the adoption of tech products and services, sentiment has flipped even further — to a frenzy of deal making.

Start-ups like Discord and Robinhood are raising more money at sky-high valuations, and then  being inundated with new funding offers. Venture capitalists are fighting to get into deals. And as the delivery service DoorDash and the home rental start-up Airbnb prepare to go public this week, the bonanza of initial public offerings is likely to enrich and fuel Silicon Valley’s start-up boom even more.

“Almost every hot company right now is being pursued like mad,” said Matt Murphy, an investor at the venture capital firm Menlo Ventures. “More than ever, there is this flight to being in the assets at any price.”

The boom is being driven not just by higher demand for digital products and services. Low interest rates are pushing investors to seek returns in ever-riskier assets. Venture firms have raised record levels of capital. A soaring stock market has enabled more I.P.O.s. Big tech companies are making bold acquisitions. Even Bitcoin has reached a new high.

That helped start-ups amass $36.5 billion in funding in the third quarter, up 30 percent from a year earlier, according to CB Insights, which tracks private financing. Start-ups have raised 223 “mega-rounds” of $100 million or higher so far this year, on a pace to surpass last year’s total, according to Pitchbook.

The average valuations for more mature start-ups also spiked to a high of $584 million, according to Pitchbook. And 81 I.P.O.s raised $28.5 billion in the third quarter, the busiest period for listings since 2000, according to Renaissance Capital.

“I haven’t seen anything like this in over 20 years,” said Eric Paley, an investor at the venture firm Founder Collective. “The party is as loud and the drinks are flowing as freely as the dot-com boom, despite that we’re all drinking at home and alone.”

While some start-ups have retrenched in the pandemic, far more have found themselves on the right side of the economy’s “feast or famine” split. With the coronavirus compressing  years of tech adoption into a few months, lesser-known software companies focused on areas like cloud computing, financial technology and collaboration tools have thrived. Wall Street recently offered warm welcomes to public listings from fast-growing software start-ups such as Snowflake, Asana, JFrog, Sumo Logic and Unity.

The world underestimated just how big the already huge tech industry could become, said Roseanne Wincek, an investor at Renegade Partners. “More and more people are waking up to that,” she said.

On Wednesday, DoorDash plans to list its shares and go public at a valuation as high as $35.3 billion, more than double its last private valuation. The company increased its proposed price range to $90 to $95 a share on Friday, up from $75 to $85. The listing may help redeem SoftBank, the swashbuckling mega-fund that was humbled last year by a spate of bad investments in start-ups such as the real estate company WeWork.

Airbnb, which was crippled by the travel shutdowns in the spring, then plans to go public the next day. On Monday, the company raised the proposed price range on its listing to $56 to $60 a share, up from $44 to $50. That could increase its valuation to as high as $42 billion, or 32 percent above where it was before the pandemic.

Private start-ups normally raise funding every 12 to 18 months, but with investors furiously competing to give them money, that timeline has now shrunk to three to six months, entrepreneurs and investors said. Some start-ups are even closing back-to-back rounds of funding at higher valuations.

After Discord, a social media platform, raised money in June valuing it at $3.5 billion, investors immediately called to give the company more funding, one person with knowledge of the company said. Now Discord is in talks to raise more and to double its valuation to $7 billion, said two people with knowledge of the talks, who were not authorized to speak publicly. Discord declined to comment. TechCrunch first reported on its new funding.

Instacart, a grocery delivery company, also raised two blockbuster rounds of funding this year, more than doubling its valuation to $17.7 billion. Robinhood, the stock trading app, has pulled in $1.25 billion in four funding rounds this year, valuing it at $11.7 billion.

In a pandemic, investors have found it difficult to impress entrepreneurs with posh dinners or celebrity-laden parties. But they have gained an edge by moving the fastest.

Rahul Vohra, an entrepreneur who also backs young start-ups, frequently hears a company’s pitch, conducts diligence, signs a deal and wires the money all in the same day, he said.

“There’s no point in sitting on the deal,” Mr. Vohra said. Waiting a week means the deal could get more expensive or become overcrowded with other investors, costing him a chance to invest, he said.

In late summer, Addition, an investment fund, approached Snyk, a security software start-up, about taking more money. Within 48 hours of meeting, Snyk signed a funding agreement. The funding, raised just eight months after Snyk’s previous round, valued the company at $2.6 billion, or 80 times its annual recurring revenue of roughly $30 million.

“They used speed to their advantage,” said Peter McKay, Snyk’s chief executive. “Investors who are waiting for someone to raise a round — that’s almost too late.”

Henrique Dubugras, chief executive of Brex, a start-up that provides credit cards to other start-ups, said he had also had more unsolicited calls from investors. Early in the pandemic, Brex laid off 62 employees and closed a restaurant it operated in San Francisco’s South Park. But in June, business started rebounding, he said. Calls from venture capitalists soon followed.

“I’ve honestly never seen it as aggressive as it is right now,” Mr. Dubugras said. He said Brex was not currently planning to raise more funding.

The froth has created a sense of unease among some investors. Mr. Paley said some of Founder Collective’s portfolio companies had raised “breathtaking” financing rounds that felt risky.

“When people congratulate us, we are sheepish about whether these nosebleed valuations are good for us or the founders,” he said.

But there’s little point in declaring the sky is falling, other investors said. Who would listen? For more than a decade, prominent investors have tried to warn against start-up spending, valuations and bubbles. In that time, the tech industry has only gotten bigger, richer and more powerful.

Some investors pointed to Sequoia Capital, one of Silicon Valley’s best-known venture firms, which sent a dramatic “Black Swan” memo in March telling companies to prepare for a difficult year. Six months later, Roelof Botha, a Sequoia partner, said at a virtual TechCrunch conference that he hadn’t anticipated how much this era would benefit tech companies. Sequoia declined to comment.

That same week, three Sequoia-backed start-ups held lucrative I.P.O.s. The firm will most likely see new windfalls this week because of its investments in DoorDash and Airbnb. Sequoia also owns shares in Zoom, the videoconferencing company, which has gone from a $1 billion valuation to $116 billion in less than two years.

Frank Rotman, a venture capitalist at QED Investors, tweeted in August that the pattern of start-ups raising back-to-back rounds of funding was “the most disturbing trend I’m seeing.” He wrote that “a company can easily fly off the rails with too much easy and cheap money in their bank account.” Several top venture capitalists wrote him to say they agreed, he said.

Last week, as QED completed a new investment, another venture firm asked to put money into the same company at a twofold to threefold valuation increase. The firm wanted to get an agreement signed the day that Mr. Rotman’s firm wired its money, which was the earliest moment it would be possible to strike another deal.

“This is insanity,” Mr. Rotman said.





No.17 article:
Supreme Court Hears Holocaust Survivors’ Cases Against Hungary and Germany

The justices struggled to decide whether a 1976 law that bars most suits against other nations allows Jewish victims to sue over the theft of their property.

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court, wary in the past of cases concerning conduct by and against foreigners that took place abroad, heard arguments on Monday over whether American courts have a role in deciding whether Hungary and Germany must pay for property said to have been stolen from Jews before and during World War II.

But the gravity of the human rights violations described in the two lawsuits persuaded a federal appeals court in Washington to let the two cases move forward. The Trump administration took issue with the rulings, filing briefs and presenting arguments supporting efforts to limit review in American courts.

The Hungarian case, Republic of Hungary v. Simon, No. 18-1447, was brought by 14 Holocaust survivors, four of them United States citizens, who said their property was stolen by Hungary and its state-owned railway, which deported hundreds of thousands of Jews to Nazi death camps in the summer of 1944.

Sarah E. Harrington, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, urged the justices to consider that historical context.

“Hungary took everything the plaintiffs owned, including possessions necessary to survive, such as shelter, clothing and medicine, and the undisputed purpose of Hungary’s takings was to bring about the physical destruction of Jews in Hungary,” she said. “That is genocide.”

The German case, Federal Republic of Germany v. Philipp, No. 19-351, concerns the Guelph Treasure, a trove of medieval religious art that was once owned by a consortium of Jewish art dealers in Frankfurt and that is now estimated to be worth $250 million. In 1935, the families of the dealers say, the consortium was forced by the German authorities to sell the collection for far less than it was worth.

The 42 pieces in the collection are now in the Museum of Decorative Arts in Berlin. In 2014, a German commission determined that the museum had acquired the collection legitimately and did not need to return it.

The commission said the 1935 sale was voluntary and came after a yearlong negotiation that resulted in a price about halfway between the two sides’ opening positions. The families said the consortium was coerced to sell in the face of sustained persecution.

Three-judge panels of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against both Hungary and Germany, saying the cases could proceed.

The basic legal question for the justices in both cases is whether the disputes should be resolved by American courts. A federal law, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, generally bars suits against foreign states. The law has some exceptions, including one for the expropriation of property, and American courts have sometimes declined to hear cases against other nations for fear that doing so would interfere with international comity.

Gregory Silbert, a lawyer for Hungary, said its courts should be allowed to address the matter.

“When a complaint alleges that foreign parties harmed other foreign parties in a foreign country, a federal court can decline jurisdiction in favor of a foreign tribunal,” he said. “Hungary should have the first opportunity to address these claims.”

The same would be true, he said, were the shoe on the other foot.

“We can all agree,” he said, “that the remedies for the worst injustices committed by the United States in the United States should not be decided by a Hungarian judge applying Hungarian law from a courtroom in Budapest.”

Benjamin W. Snyder, a lawyer for the federal government who argued in support of Hungary, took a position that frustrated several justices. He said the Supreme Court should leave open the possibility that courts should defer to foreign tribunals in the interest of international comity and return the case to lower courts to decide whether Hungary was entitled to such deference. But he would not say what they should do.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said that was a curious position given the executive branch’s expertise in foreign affairs.

“This is the perfect time for you to fill that void,” the chief justice told Mr. Snyder, who declined.

“The State Department simply doesn’t feel that it has sufficient information to provide the court with a recommendation,” Mr. Snyder said.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said he was puzzled as to why judges rather than diplomats should assess the international relations implications of allowing suits against other nations to proceed in American courts.

“There are almost 700 district judges,” he told Mr. Snyder. “You want every one of them to assess whether a particular lawsuit raises foreign relations concerns?”

Justice Elena Kagan also expressed misgivings. “Some might say that what’s going on here,” she said, “is that the State Department is expecting the courts to do the difficult and sensitive and some might say dirty work for you.”

She asked Ms. Harrington, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, about a similar case against Hungary in which an appeals court estimated that the potential damages could amount to 40 percent of its gross domestic product.

“So this is a suit that could essentially bankrupt a foreign nation,” Justice Kagan said. “Now that seems as though it’s screaming severe international friction.”

Ms. Harrington responded that her case, a potential class action, was at an early stage and that “it’s pure speculation at this point” to try to calculate her clients’ damages.

A supporting brief from Hungarian Holocaust victims argued that trying to sue in that country was pointless. It described a case brought there by a 92-year-old plaintiff whose suit was dismissed for lack of evidence beyond her sworn testimony and who was ordered to pay the government’s legal fees.

“The Hungarian court asked the impossible of the survivors, whom the concentration camps deprived of the means to prove with written documentation the property that was stolen from them,” the brief said.

In the German case, the justices focused on a different question: Does the exception allowing suits under the 1976 law for expropriation of property apply when a foreign government was accused of taking its own citizens’ property?

Edwin S. Kneedler, a lawyer for the federal government, said the exception for expropriation applied only to “the taking of a foreign national’s property.”

More generally, he urged the justices to consider the consequences of a broad ruling.

“This would put courts of the United States,” Mr. Kneedler said, “in the business of making sensitive judgments about the conduct of foreign governments, including perhaps some of our closest allies, and invite other countries to open their courts to claims based on situations in this country’s unfortunate past, where it has committed acts that everyone would now regard as violations of the law of nations.”





No.18 article:
Elevating Fringe Theories, Ron Johnson Questions Virus Science

The Wisconsin Republican has transformed his Senate panel into a forum for amplifying dubious theories and questionable treatments pushed by President Trump.

WASHINGTON — In choosing a slate of doctors to testify about coronavirus treatments before his committee on Tuesday, Senator Ron Johnson has assembled a cast of witnesses who question much of the public health consensus about the virus.

There is a prominent vaccine skeptic, an outspoken critic of masking and social distancing, and at least two doctors who have promoted the use of an anti-parasitic drug that government scientists have recommended against using to treat the coronavirus.

It is the latest example of how Mr. Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican who has used his powerful investigative panel to amplify groundless accusations pushed by President Trump, has now embraced the role of the Senate’s leading Covid contrarian.

Even as some of his Republican colleagues have sought to use their platforms to encourage Americans to take precautions against the spread of the virus and persuade the public that vaccines against it will be safe and vital, Mr. Johnson has suggested that the dangers of the coronavirus have been overblown and excessively regulated. And twice in the past three weeks, Mr. Johnson has used his gavel on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to elevate voices who public health experts say represent fringe beliefs.

It has set off something of a quiet mutiny on the panel, enraging Democrats who plan to essentially boycott the traditional cross-examination of witnesses and unsettling some Republicans who are planning to skip Tuesday’s session lest their presence be seen as lending credence to the proceeding.

The selections underscore the extent to which Mr. Johnson, a former plastics baron who has made little secret of his disdain for the Washington establishment, has eagerly echoed the most conspiracy-minded and anti-science impulses of Mr. Trump and waded headfirst into battles even the president’s usually reliable phalanx of congressional defenders have been unwilling to fight.

Mr. Johnson spent much of the year pursuing a corruption inquiry into President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son, Hunter, that he conceded was driven by Mr. Biden’s political campaign, and that ultimately found no wrongdoing by the elder Mr. Biden. Since the election, he has questioned whether Mr. Biden won fairly, saying last week that Attorney General William P. Barr should produce proof to back up his statement that the Justice Department had found no evidence of the kind of widespread voter fraud Mr. Trump has baselessly insisted cost him the election.

Mr. Johnson is unfazed by the criticism he has attracted.

In an interview on Monday, he said that while he supported widespread vaccination and masking, he believed that many of his colleagues had been too deferential to a public health establishment that, because of its obsession with finding a vaccine and lack of experience treating coronavirus patients, had undermined, neglected and even “censored” other potential treatments that he believes could help.

“We have grossly overreacted to this,” Mr. Johnson said of the virus. “We have not been smart. We should have isolated the sick, protected the vulnerable and then the rest of us carry on with our lives as safely as possible.”

Mr. Johnson’s lead witness on Tuesday, Dr. Jane M. Orient, has cast doubts on coronavirus vaccines and has pushed for the use of hydroxychloroquine, an antimalarial drug pushed by Mr. Trump, as a treatment. She helps run a group that believes government vaccine mandates violate human rights.

Another, the Washington cardiologist Ramin Oskoui, said on Fox News last month that it was “settled science” that “social distancing doesn’t work, quarantining doesn’t work, masks don’t work.” On the contrary, it is settled science that all three are effective in limiting the spread of the virus.

Two others promote the use of ivermectin, a drug often used to fight lice and pinworms, to treat coronavirus patients, despite the National Institutes of Health’s recommendation against its use outside clinical trials.

Mr. Johnson said he felt that the public had a right to learn about early treatments they might not otherwise be aware of.

“There’s a blackout on good information in social media and media,” he said. “So people are being denied information to make intelligent choices themselves.”

Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, the top Democrat on the panel, fretted that the witnesses would “amplify theories that are at odds with the broader scientific community and, according to experts, could cause harm.”

“These fringe views run counter to what the Senate should be doing — working on a bipartisan basis to protect the American people and tackle this deadly pandemic,” Mr. Peters said.

He pointedly declined to invite a witness to Tuesday’s hearing, and his aides said he did not plan to engage with the witnesses during the session. Instead, he is working with a group of a dozen prominent health experts to draft a letter to submit for the Congressional Record challenging their views.

Mr. Johnson’s inflammatory public statements and his decision to give a platform to an assortment of contrarian doctors promoting alternative treatments have also irked some fellow Republicans, who have privately groused that he is acting irresponsibly. But in the clubby Senate, few are willing to criticize a colleague openly or challenge a chairman on how he runs his committee.

Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who had criticized the Hunter Biden inquiry as politicized, conspicuously skipped questioning witnesses at the earlier coronavirus hearing and does not plan to attend on Tuesday. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who is slated to take the top Republican slot on the panel in January after Mr. Johnson’s term as chairman ends, has gone out of his way to project trust for the scientific consensus on the coronavirus, publicly announcing last month that he had signed up for a vaccine trial in part to persuade Americans that it was safe.

Dr. Ashish Jha, the dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who tangled with Mr. Johnson at a November hearing dedicated to hydroxychloroquine, called that event “a powerful reminder that not even Congress is immune to toxic conspiracy theories.”

At the hearing, Mr. Johnson wondered aloud why medical professionals like Dr. Jha had scorned the drug, which has repeatedly been shown to be ineffective at treating coronavirus patients, and were supporting another drug, remdesivir, which has been shown to work but is more expensive.

“I question the fact that because this cocktail costs about $20 and remdesivir costs $3,000, that maybe there’s a little bias, maybe there’s a little conflict, maybe there’s a little agenda,” he said.

“He’s giving platforms to people who are way outside of the mainstream medical community,” Dr. Jha said in an interview.

Mr. Johnson said his own coronavirus infection in early October — “I had two positive tests. I guess they’re valid,” he said — did not require treatment.

Mr. Johnson’s interest in health issues is longstanding and consistent with his more recent statements. He was the lead sponsor, for example, of so-called right-to-try legislation that Congress overwhelmingly approved in 2018 to allow seriously ill patients to bypass the Food and Drug Administration and use unproven experimental treatments.

“He has always been a contrarian person,” said Mark Becker, the former county chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party, who recently wrote an op-ed for The Bulwark, a website with a bent toward “Never Trump” conservatism, about a recent call with Mr. Johnson.

“But everything on the Republican side has turned to be a political argument, even a public health crisis,” Mr. Becker said. “And he still cares about not pissing off those Trumpers. He said that to me very clearly: ‘I’m not going to piss them off.’”

The calculation is most likely a shrewd one as the senator looks toward running for a third term in 2022 in a competitive state where he has twice been elected by narrow margins. Though he initially pledged to serve only two terms, Mr. Johnson has since hinted that he may feel compelled to run again, arguing that times have changed. Mr. Trump’s vocal support could be key.

Thomas Nelson, the Outagamie County executive and a Democrat challenging Mr. Johnson, predicted that voters would remember Mr. Johnson using a powerful perch in Washington to publicly explore “rabbit holes of bizarre conspiracies.”

“What’s wrong with you? I mean, what is wrong with you?” Mr. Nelson said in an interview. “Do you not see the existential threat that communities like your hometown are facing, have been facing?”





No.19 article:
Republicans Make Clear Their Georgia Senate Strategy: Attack Warnock

For the crucial Senate runoffs, the G.O.P. is focusing its attacks on the Rev. Raphael Warnock, portraying him as radical, a claim he has rejected but one that worked for Republicans in down-ballot races last month.

WASHINGTON — When Senator David Perdue of Georgia didn’t show up for a debate on Sunday night, he ensured two outcomes: Jon Ossoff, Mr. Perdue’s Democratic opponent, would enjoy free airtime unencumbered by attacks from his rival, and the other Senate debate that night would draw far more attention.

Handing Mr. Ossoff an open microphone, Republicans determined, was well worth the bargain.

As Georgians prepare to vote in two runoffs next month that will decide control of the Senate, there is little mystery as to which of the two Democratic candidates G.O.P. officials want to elevate as a target as they try to rouse their base: the Rev. Raphael Warnock, who is running against Georgia’s other Republican senator, Kelly Loeffler.

Ms. Loeffler made plain the Republican strategy when she called Mr. Warnock a “radical liberal” 13 times in their debate on Sunday evening. She repeatedly invoked his past criticism of police officers and a sermon in which he once said that “nobody can serve God and the military,” a theme that has roots in biblical passages.

Her plan of attack followed a similar portrayal by President Trump during his rally on Saturday in Valdosta, Ga., where Republicans played a video that likened Mr. Warnock to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, the Chicago pastor whose comments drew scrutiny to his relationship with Barack Obama in the 2008 campaign. The video included footage of Mr. Wright famously saying “God damn America.”

That same critique has been echoed by other Republican surrogates, who have spent more time focusing on Mr. Warnock than Mr. Ossoff.

“This is a man who celebrated Jeremiah Wright, the radical pastor who was so far to the left that even Barack Obama had to repudiate him,” Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas said during a stop in Georgia last month.

Making Mr. Warnock, the pastor of Atlanta’s storied Ebenezer Baptist Church, the face of the opposition for the Jan. 5 election — rather than Mr. Ossoff, a young white documentary filmmaker — represents a two-pronged strategy.

Spotlighting a Black candidate and linking him to the state’s most prominent African-American Democrat, Stacey Abrams, amounts to a strategy to motivate turnout among white conservatives, especially those who harbor racist views and are uneasy about Black leadership. Mr. Warnock would be the first Black Democratic senator from the South.

The run-against-Warnock approach, though, also takes a page out of the national Republican Party’s playbook for the 2020 campaign. Republicans found great success in down-ballot races, against mostly white candidates, by tying them to the most liberal figures and ideas in the Democratic Party — like defunding the police, which Mr. Warnock does not support.

These attacks, delivered without overt references to race, may prove enough to persuade the multiracial coalition of suburbanites who swung to Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the presidential contest to vote next month for the two Republicans and ensure a G.O.P.-controlled Senate.

“Both are political newcomers with thin paper trails,” the Republican strategist Liam Donovan said of the two Democratic candidates, “but Warnock gives you a lot more to aim at than Ossoff, especially on familiar themes that resonate with G.O.P. audiences. Ossoff is just too dull to make a useful political caricature of.”

Republicans have another imperative when it comes to Mr. Warnock: Because Ms. Loeffler spent much of her focus and money fending off Representative Doug Collins, a Republican, in the first round of voting last month in the Senate race, Mr. Warnock emerged from November with the lowest unfavorable ratings of the four candidates vying for the two seats.

Ms. Loeffler, who was appointed to her seat last December and is a first-time candidate, is seen by officials in both parties as the more vulnerable of the two Republicans; she has slightly underperformed Mr. Perdue in the small set of polling that has been released since the runoffs got underway.

Mr. Warnock recognized the onslaught coming his way and quickly released an ad previewing the attacks, suggesting Republicans would even claim he didn’t like puppies.

“I love puppies!” he declared as he stroked one in the commercial.

Mr. Warnock, though, did not have any such line at the ready on Sunday night to defuse Ms. Loeffler’s unrelenting portrayal of him as a radical. Instead, he sought to change the focus to his rival’s wealth and the stock trades she made while serving in the Senate this year.

Mr. Warnock said Ms. Loeffler “used her advantage as a U.S. senator to make millions on a pandemic while playing it down to the people she was supposed to represent.”

Mr. Warnock emphasized his commitment to unity — “I have worked my whole life to pull people together,” he said — and sought to reassure voters in what is still a right-of-center state that he supported police officers.

“Our law enforcement officers lay it on the line every day,” he said, adding that they “will have an ally in me.” Ms. Loeffler, though, did not let up.

“I’m not going to be lectured by someone who uses the Bible to justify division,” she said, referring to Mr. Warnock’s sermon about God and the military. Mr. Warnock responded by accusing Ms. Loeffler of distorting his words for “cheap political points” and said the sermon was about “a moral foundation of everything we do.”

What ultimately may drive the Loeffler-Warnock race, and perhaps both of the runoffs, is whether Republicans’ attacks remind Georgia voters of why they’ve demonstrated a longstanding preference for Republican senators, allowing them to put aside their distaste for Mr. Trump’s conspiracy-mongering.

This may depend in part on how Mr. Trump conducts himself after Dec. 14, when the Electoral College will formalize Mr. Biden’s victory. On Monday, Georgia officials recertified the state’s election results after a second recount affirmed Mr. Trump had lost.

“That strikes me as a pivot point,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, referring to the Electoral College deadline next week. He expressed the hope of many in his party that from that point on the two Georgia Republicans could run expressly on a message of “We need a firewall.”

For now, Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede defeat is denying the two Republicans the opportunity to run on this message; Ms. Loeffler demonstrated that in the debate when she refused to say Mr. Biden had won the presidency, for fear of alienating Mr. Trump and his fervent supporters.

Even if the Georgia Republicans can fully present themselves as checks on Mr. Biden, there are still risks in making Mr. Warnock their singular target. If the attacks have an air of bigotry, Republicans may turn off the coalition of moderates they are trying to win over in the runoffs. Many Georgians across racial lines are proud to claim a New South identity and may recoil from anything that smacks of overt race-baiting.

Further, the anti-Warnock messaging may energize Black voters, who make up approximately 30 percent of the Georgia electorate.

“Democrats have a hard time getting some of their African-American voters to come back when there’s not a presidential race at the top of the ticket,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster. “But African-Americans have never had an African-American Senate candidate to vote for either.”

Jim Galloway, the dean of Georgia’s political press and a longtime columnist at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, has warned about the risks for Republicans if they make the attacks too extreme.

He wrote in a recent column that the party “crosses a line” when it allows Mr. Collins to claim, as he did last month, that “there is no such thing as a pro-choice pastor. What you have is a lie from the bed of hell. It is time to send it back to Ebenezer Baptist Church.”

Mr. Galloway wrote: “I have been unable to decide which is more disturbing — referring to an African-American man as an “it,” or marking Ebenezer and its congregation as a den of satanic influence. But it is hard to walk either back — and with her silence, Loeffler has acquiesced to both.”

Pressed on this question in the debate on Sunday, Ms. Loeffler insisted she was not turning to racist appeals and, echoing Mr. Trump, said that “there is not a racist bone in my body.” She argued that Mr. Warnock’s beliefs — not his identity — were why voters should be fearful of Democrats controlling both chambers of Congress and the White House.

“What’s at stake here in this election is the American dream,” she said. “This is an attack on every single Georgian who gets up every day to work hard to provide a better life for their family.”

Mr. Warnock hit back: “She’s lied, not only on me, but about Jesus.”





No.20 article:
Armed Mexicans Were Smuggled In to Guard Border Wall, Whistle-Blowers Say

In a complaint unsealed on Friday, whistle-blowers working on President Trump’s wall said that contractors were illegally bringing in Mexican guards to protect construction sites.

WASHINGTON — Two whistle-blowers have accused contractors building President Trump’s border wall of smuggling armed Mexican security teams into the United States to guard construction sites, even building an illegal dirt road to speed the operation, according to court documents unsealed by a federal judge on Friday.

The two employees, who were both contracted to provide security at the sites, accused the company, Sullivan Land Services Co., or S.L.S. — as well as a subcontractor, Ultimate Concrete of El Paso — of hiring workers who were not vetted by the United States government, overcharging for construction costs and making false statements about those actions.

The whistle-blowers said Ultimate Concrete went so far as to build a dirt road to expedite illegal border crossings to sites in San Diego, using construction vehicles to block security cameras. An unnamed supervisor at the Army Corps of Engineers approved the operation, according to a complaint filed in February and released on Friday.

Mr. Trump may have failed to make good on his 2016 promise to make Mexico pay for the wall, but if the accusations prove true, the administration apparently did rely on Mexican workers for the project, potentially at the expense of Americans.

The allegations came to light as data obtained by The New York Times showed that a border wall that Mr. Trump once advertised as “impenetrable” has continued to prove very penetrable. In fact, it has been repeatedly breached by migrants, requiring repairs that the whistle-blowers say were completed by workers who were not authorized by the government to be on the job.

Documents obtained by The Times through a Freedom of Information Act request show that Border Patrol agents have struggled to prevent migrants from breaching the wall, with one portion of the barriers in the Tucson, Ariz., sector breached as recently as September.

Between October 2019 and March 2020, the concrete bollards of the wall were breached more than 320 times in the Border Patrol sectors of San Diego; Tucson; El Centro, Calif.; and Yuma, Ariz., according to the documents. While Mr. Trump has constructed new segments in each of those areas, it is unclear whether all the breaches affected new portions of his wall or dilapidated barriers installed by previous administrations.

The Times could not independently verify the accusations, which were made by a former deputy sheriff in San Diego County and a former F.B.I. special agent providing security for the wall construction. The false claims act complaint was filed in the Southern District of California, allowing the federal government to investigate the allegations while they remained sealed and to decide whether to pursue the case. The Justice Department notified the court last week that it would not intervene in the case, prompting a judge to unseal the allegations. Federal law allows the whistle-blowers to continue to pursue the case “in the name of the United States” or, with the permission of the federal government, to seek a settlement or dismissal of the case.

Liz Rogers, a spokeswoman for S.L.S., said in a statement that the company did not comment on litigation. Jesse Guzman, the president of Ultimate Concrete, said in a phone interview on Monday that he was not aware of the complaint, but he dismissed the accusations.

“Everybody can allege whatever they want to, and that does not make it correct or make it the truth,” he said, adding that it was two security officers who were angry that “something didn’t go their way.”

A spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Greg Davis, said the agency did not comment on litigation. “Lack of comment should not be construed as agreement or stipulation with any of the allegations,” he said.

One of the guards, who served as an on-site security manager for the contractors, told special agents with the F.B.I. that he had discovered through monthly audits of workers at the site in San Diego that many of the personnel working on construction and security were not vetted or approved by Customs and Border Protection.

S.L.S., a primary builder of Mr. Trump’s wall, has been awarded contracts worth more than $1.4 billion for work on multiple parts of the border. With those funds, the company is said to have allowed its subcontractor, Ultimate Concrete, to hire armed Mexicans and facilitate illegal border crossings that the president has worked to shut down.

Ultimate Concrete “constructed a dirt road that would allow access from the Mexican side of the border into the United States,” the whistle-blowers said in the complaint. “This U.C.-constructed road was apparently the route by which the armed Mexican nationals were unlawfully crossing into the United States.”

An S.L.S. project manager then pressured one of the whistle-blowers in July 2019 to not include information about the Mexican security guards in reports required to be submitted to the Army Corps of Engineers.

Border Patrol agents raised concerns that month about those Mexican guards to the security companies that one of the whistle-blowers worked for. When the whistle-blower discussed the concerns about Mexican guards working on the U.S. side of the border with an S.L.S. project manager, the company said the work by the Mexican guards was approved — a claim the whistle-blower rejected.

“What are you going to do about it?” the project manager said to the security officer, who filed the complaint.

About three weeks later, one of the whistle-blowers received a report about a shooting that had taken place between the Mexican security guards and others who crossed the border to steal property. One of the whistle-blowers sent a report on the shooting to the Army Corps.

Army Corps officials responded that they would investigate the episode and that the information was inconsistent with what Ultimate Concrete leaders had reported.

One of the whistle-blowers also said in the complaint that he had interviewed a witness who said the armed Mexican guards were working on the U.S. side of the border. Leaders for both contractors also admitted that they were aware of the Mexican guards working in the United States, with a representative from Ultimate Concrete claiming that he was “paying for the services of the Mexican guards.”

One of the security guards then reached out to the F.B.I. The Washington Post reported earlier that the F.B.I. was investigating the shooting at the construction site in San Diego last year that had wounded two of the Mexican security guards. The Post also reported that migrants had begun cutting through Mr. Trump’s wall in 2019.

The whistle-blowers also said in the complaint that Ultimate Concrete employees had submitted fraudulent invoices to the federal government. One of the whistle-blowers was told by an employee that a member of the company’s leadership, identified in the complaint as U.C. president, was “‘hiding’ the full extent of his profits on the Border Wall project,” in part by submitting false claims for diesel fuel, according to the complaint.

“If they were using a forklift, they would use it only sporadically throughout the day but charge the government for fuel, in sum and substance, ‘as if it was running all the time,’” the complaint said.

The whistle-blowers said in the complaint that at least one unnamed Army Corps supervisor, who later stepped down, was aware of the use of Mexican guards and had an inappropriate relationship with the leadership of Ultimate Concrete, often attending golf outings with “U.C. president.”

One of the whistle-blowers claimed to have told the Army Corps supervisor about concerns with the company, only to be told to “stand down.”

The Justice Department did not respond to requests for comment. Nicholas J. Lewin, a lawyer for one of the whistle-blowers, did not respond to requests for comment. Marc S. Harris, a lawyer for another security officer, declined to comment.

The employees also accused the companies of submitting fraudulent invoices for border wall costs and “hiding” the full profits of the project.





No.21 article:
Christmas Trees — an Elusive Bit of Happiness for Canadians

There’s been a run on Christmas trees as Canadians, trapped inside because of the pandemic, try, in record numbers, to shoehorn joy into their lives.

TORONTO — Scott Lunau was steering apple pickers onto his farm in mid-November when a customer asked if it was too early to cut down a Christmas tree. He scrambled out to the barn to find the wrapping machine and netting needed to tie up a tree like a package, ready for a roof rack.

“I thought I had a few crazy people who wanted to get trees early,” said Mr. Lunau, the owner of Albion Orchards, a 50-acre farm 25 minutes northwest of Toronto. With six weeks to go before Christmas, he wondered if they were going on a trip and planned to celebrate early.

Instead, they were harbingers of the storm of early Christmas tree shoppers that would descend on his farm, and many others across the country, just as Covid-19 rates began to rise at alarming rates.

Christmas has come early to Canada, it seems, with parts of the country  hunkered down since November. Its biggest city, Toronto, and two of its large suburbs went into lockdown two weeks ago. Since there is little Christmas shopping, few Christmas parties and fewer of the Christmas pageants that are a hallmark of the country’s annual celebration, all that festive energy is being squeezed into private happy-making — centered around the traditional Christmas tree.

Weeks before the first Saturday of December, when Canadians usually start looking for their trees, many cut-your-own Christmas tree farms were already picked clean, sold-out signs put up on Christmas tree lots and nurseries declared out of inventory. If toilet paper shortages and bare shelves in the baking aisle of grocery stores were the symbol of the coronavirus’s first crash through Canada, then Christmas trees are quickly becoming the symbol of the virus’s second wave.

“We’ve been trying for four days to find more,” said Steve Watson, who runs a large Christmas tree lot in Toronto’s Beaches neighborhood that was picked dry a week after it opened in November. “Someone offered me three times the price to give them a tree last night. It’s definitely Covid-panic.”

Christmas is Canada’s biggest holiday of the year. Traditionally, it is marked by large gatherings — Christmas markets, Christmas concerts, tree lightings and Santa Claus parades that weave through crowded streets packed with viewers who arrive hours early to mark their spot.

This year, as coronavirus rates break records across the country, most of those have been canceled.

François Legault, the premier of Quebec, had been among the few political leaders to condone small gatherings over the holidays. Last Thursday he reversed his stand, saying the province’s soaring rates meant that family gatherings of any size were “not a good idea.”

On Friday Prime Minister Justin Trudeau weighed in. “We knew it wouldn’t be a normal Christmas,” he said. “Now we are going to have to try to connect differently with our loved ones.” He added, “It’s going to be a difficult time.”

Many Canadians who fly across country to see family or escape south to the tropics for a few weeks of precious sun, have canceled those trips. About 70 percent of Canada’s 110,000 snowbirds, who typically head to Florida, California and Arizona for winter, decided to stay put, according to the Canadian Snowbird Association’s spokesman, Evan Rachkovsky.

Taken together, that makes for many more Christmas tree buyers — pushing sales across the country up by 25 percent, said Shirley Brennan, executive director of the Canadian Christmas Trees Association, a growers’ group.

“People want hope,” she said. “Christmas trees give them hope.”

That same motivation seems prevalent in Britain, several Western European countries and parts of the United States, where demand for trees — at tree farms, tree stands and online — is breaking records.

In Canada, the increase isn’t entirely the result of locked-down crazed shopping; it’s part of a trend. Over the past five years, Canadian Christmas tree farm sales have more than doubled, to $108 million,  or $138 million Canadian dollars, in 2019. That coincided with a lower supply, particularly in the United States, where the 2008 recession put many tree farms out of business and caused others to plant fewer trees.

Since the perfect Christmas tree takes about 10 years to grow, the market is still feeling the results now, said Doug Drysdale, a Christmas tree farmer. About half of Canadian tree sales go across the border into the United States, according to Statistics Canada.

“The U.S. is desperately short of trees,” said Mr. Drysdale, whose Drysdale Tree Farms is among the largest cut-your-own Christmas tree operations in the country. Two American wholesalers called him back in August, looking for 50,000 trees each — enough to wipe out his entire inventory for years, he said.

On the first Saturday in December, which is officially Christmas Tree Day in Ontario, two parking lots in front of Mr. Drysdale’s farm an hour north of Toronto were jammed with cars. This year, because of coronavirus concerns, Mr. Drysdale was not offering his usual Christmas village fare — no carolers, no Santa for children to climb on, no horse-drawn carriage rides through the woods or bonfires to toast marshmallows over. But it didn’t seem to matter.

“We’re all stuck inside,” said John Grogan, a 67-year-old retired electrician, standing in a long line of families waiting to board a wagon and be towed out into the Christmas tree fields. “Everybody needs something to cheer them up. This is the way to do it.”

Mr. Grogan’s grandchildren played around him, wearing masks. Since the coronavirus rates began to soar in the area, they’d stopped coming into his home to be sure not to infect him or his wife, he said.

“This is our opportunity to be together again,” he said.

 For some growers like Mr. Drysdale, the Christmas tree phase has come as welcome boost to lagging profits because they’ve raised tree prices. For others, it has simply meant barren fields.

“When we are done, we are done,” said Matthew Whitney, who runs a small Christmas tree farm three hours west of Toronto. “We can only plant so many trees a year. We have to be strict, so you are not selling trees that are for next year.” The Christmas spirit kept him from raising prices — it was a tough year on everyone, he said, “when people weren’t as flush as they usually are.”

After only two weekends open, Mr. Whitney sold all 600 trees, around half to new customers who had never bought a real tree before. That means he and wife will have a novel Christmas season, without the bustle of customers arriving to their farm.

“That’s a refreshing change,” he said. “We can sit back and enjoy it.”





No.22 article:
Metropolitan Opera to Lock Out Stagehands as Contract Talks Stall

After reaching a bargaining impasse, the shuttered opera company said it would lock out the workers needed to build sets for next season’s productions.

In one of the most serious labor disputes to erupt in the culture world since the coronavirus pandemic halted performances around the globe, the Metropolitan Opera said on Monday that it planned to lock out its stagehands at midnight after the union representing the workers balked at the company’s demands for pay cuts.

The Met, which has been shut by the pandemic since March, says that it needs to cut labor costs significantly if it is to survive until and after it reopens. So the company, which has furloughed most of its work force without pay since April, has offered to begin paying many employees up to $1,500 a week if their unions agree to long-term contracts that include a 30 percent cut in pay. Half of those cuts would be restored once the Met’s box office returns to pre-pandemic levels.

The unions have bristled at the request, saying that their members cannot handle such a long-term financial hit after going many months without pay. After talks with the powerful union that represents the Met’s roughly 300 stagehands, Local One of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, failed to yield an agreement this weekend, the Met announced that it planned to lock out the union’s workers.

“I realize it is incredibly painful what we’re asking them to do,” Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, said in an interview. “But what we’re trying to do is keep the Met alive, and the only way to achieve that is to reduce our costs.”

Of course the lockout will not have its usual impact during the pandemic, when few Met stagehands are working; only a few dozen stagehands have recently been at the opera house, Mr. Gelb said. But more were set to return later this month to begin constructing the sets for the operas that the Met plans to stage next fall, when it hopes to reopen.

Several other performing arts organizations facing a financial crisis as the pandemic has caused them to cancel many months of performances have negotiated pay cuts with the unions representing their workers, including at the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic.

After the Met’s lockout begins at midnight on Tuesday, Mr. Gelb said, the stagehands who are currently working on projects like maintaining stage mechanisms will no longer be able to work. He added that if an agreement is not reached by the spring and summer, when the Met usually ramps up its set construction, many more employees will end up out of work.

James J. Claffey Jr., the president of Local One, said in an interview on Monday that during bargaining negotiations he had suggested a lesser pay cut, but that his offer was rejected. None of the stagehands were willing to take a 30 percent cut, he added.

“To do this during a deadly virus is just ridiculous,” Mr. Claffey said of the lockout. “But that’s their leverage at this point.”

Mr. Gelb said Local One’s proposal was insignificant in terms of addressing the problems the Met faces.

Last month, Mr. Gelb sent a letter to Mr. Claffey saying that if they could not reach an agreement by Dec. 5, the Met “will have no choice other than to lock out Local One employees, utilizing other temporary means to construct the sets.” He added that in 2019, the average cost to the Met of a full-time stagehand, including benefits, was $260,000, and wrote that “the health crisis has compounded the Met’s previous financial fragility, threatening our very existence.”

Mr. Gelb has said that most of the pay cuts he is seeking could be achieved by changes to work rules. But the major unions that work with the Met have accused its management of taking advantage of the pandemic to push through concessions that the company has long sought to alter those rules, which have been established over many years of collective bargaining.

Local One’s contract with the Met expired at the end of July. Since Mr. Gelb sent the letter to Mr. Claffey in November, there have been two virtual negotiating meetings, but the deadline Mr. Gelb mentioned passed over the weekend without an agreement.

The Met has asked other unions whose contracts have not yet expired, like those that represent its orchestra musicians and chorus, to open negotiations early and agree to the cuts. In exchange, many of their members would be able to begin receiving partial paychecks for the first time in months. So far, those unions have not agreed to reopen their contracts early.

Adam Krauthamer, the president of the union that represents the orchestra, Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said that his union had made its own proposal for cutbacks that do not “gut their contract for decades to come.” In a statement, he denounced the stagehand lockout, saying that the Met’s revival “should not be at the expense of the very workers who quite literally make the organization function behind the scenes.”

Mr. Gelb contends that reductions in the company’s expenses should not be sought through the pruning of its live presentations. He said that two-thirds of the Met’s annual spending — $200 million — goes to labor costs. The Met’s non-unionized staff has already made sacrifices, he added, including salary cuts, his own foregoing of a salary since the end of March and pre-pandemic cuts to health and pension benefits.

“We shouldn’t be reducing them by reducing our artistic productivity,” he said of the company’s expenses. “Because that is the key to keeping donors on board and getting audiences to come back.”

Mr. Claffey said that the stagehands recognize that the Met has high artistic standards, but added that he rejected the idea that the cost reductions should fall primarily on labor.

“The Met wants labor to assume the entire burden,” he said. “It’s a recipe for disaster.”





No.23 article:
The Places That Had the Biggest Swings Toward and Against Trump

Education was a key dividing line, but other things mattered, too.

With most of the slow-to-report votes tallied, we finally have a clearer picture of last month’s presidential results. Despite the high polarization in the country that carried over to the reaction to the results — with 70 percent to 80 percent of Republicans still saying they disbelieve that Joe Biden won — in some respects the vote itself was less polarized than in 2016.

Compared with 2016, in 2020 there was less difference by race or ethnicity, and urban areas and suburban areas voted more alike. But the economic and education partisan divides widened. Mr. Biden gained in well-educated suburbs and exurbs, often in places that have tended to vote Republican in recent decades, like the Atlanta, Dallas and Phoenix areas.

In addition to these broad patterns, some specific shifts reflected local political loyalties.

As of Monday, reporting was complete enough to look closely at nearly all individual counties and metropolitan areas (which consist of one or more counties). Though some important patterns may show up only in more fine-grained precinct or individual survey data, counties make it easy to compare the entire country, over time, though many lenses.

These near-final county totals confirm a few patterns in the 2020 vote.

For all the ways that this election broke with precedent, the county-level vote pattern in 2020 was overwhelmingly similar to that in 2016. The correlation between counties’ vote margins for President Trump in 2016 and 2020 was 0.99. (A correlation of 1 represents a perfect relationship, and 0 represents no relationship.)

Strikingly, the vote was slightly less polarized than in 2016, breaking a pattern of increasing geographic polarization in the 2000s. The standard deviation measures how much an individual county’s vote typically deviated from the national average; this measure was a bit lower in 2020 after rising steadily from 2000 to 2016.

Furthermore, this year the vote in many counties was a small shift toward the center. The bigger that Mr. Trump’s victory was in 2016 in a given county, the more ground Mr. Biden picked up in 2020 relative to Hillary Clinton in 2016. In counties that voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, the 2020 margin shifted 3.2 percentage points toward Mr. Biden, versus a 1.9-point shift toward Mr. Biden in counties that voted for Mrs. Clinton in 2016.

Among metropolitan areas with a population over 250,000, three Colorado metros — fast-growing Colorado Springs, Denver and Fort Collins — topped the list for swings against Mr. Trump in two-party vote share. Colorado has one of the nation’s highest rates of people with a four-year college degree, and this year it solidified its status as a blue state. Colorado’s shift against Mr. Trump was 8.6 points, second only to Vermont’s nine points.

A part of conservative-leaning Kentucky posted one of the bigger anti-Trump shifts. The Lexington-Fayette, Ky., metropolitan area, which flipped from red to blue and is home to the University of Kentucky, has the highest percentage of college graduates in the region, and is in the top fifth of metros for college attainment.

And what about the big swing in the Huntsville area in deep-red Alabama? Fast-growing places with brighter economic prospects — correlated with a higher number of people with college degrees and more jobs in professional, tech and creative fields — moved toward Mr. Biden. A highly educated work force in Huntsville, first put to use in industries like aerospace, has become attractive to other businesses in recent years.

Suburban areas in Nebraska swung significantly toward Mr. Biden. Nebraska’s Second Congressional District, which includes well-educated Omaha, contributed one electoral vote to Mr. Biden’s tally. It “swung against Trump more than any swing state,” according to Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report. The swing was 8.8 points, as the district flipped from red to blue.

Most metro areas swung Democratic, but the most extreme swings were toward Mr. Trump, and the biggest of those were in heavily Hispanic metros, like Miami and areas along the Texas border.

Initially it appeared that President Trump’s strength in 2020 relative to 2016 in heavily Hispanic counties might have been specific to South Florida and Texas border areas, despite the very different national origins and identities in those two regions. But data from later-reporting counties points to a national trend.

The correlation between a county’s percent Hispanic population and its swing toward Trump was 0.41. Even excluding Miami-Dade County and all of Texas, the correlation is still 0.30. The Bronx, Los Angeles, Osceola County near Orlando, and Hudson and Passaic Counties in Northern New Jersey are all at least 40 percent Hispanic and swung toward Mr. Trump by at least five percentage points.

Biden’s gains were largest in suburban areas, as was immediately apparent after the election. But because many urban counties have been among the slowest to report their votes, the picture in these counties has become clear only recently.

President Trump did better in 2020 than 2016 not only in Miami-Dade, Los Angeles and the Bronx, but also in Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, and the counties encompassing the cities of Chicago, Philadelphia, San Jose and San Francisco.

Though urban counties remain overwhelmingly Democratic, Mr. Trump’s margin improved by 1.1 percentage points in these counties — an even bigger pickup than Trump achieved in non-metropolitan counties, which are largely rural. Thus, the urban-suburban divide narrowed in 2020 — and the urban-rural divide did as well.

Some regional and local patterns offer other possible explanations for 2020 swings.

Home-state loyalties. Arkansas is one of only a half-dozen states that swung toward Mr. Trump. It’s possible that Mrs. Clinton benefited in 2016 from some residual good feeling in the state based on her decade-long term as first lady of Arkansas — something that Mr. Biden couldn’t compensate for. (The Fort Smith, Ark., area was among the top 25 metro areas that swung toward Mr. Trump.)

On the other hand, Mr. Biden appeared to receive a home-state bonus in Delaware, which had the third-biggest swing against Mr. Trump of any state.

New Castle County, with Wilmington as its county seat, moved almost eight points toward Mr. Biden. Why did the Salisbury, Md., metro area have such a big swing against Mr. Trump? One possible reason is that a little more than half of the population of the metro area is across the state border, in Sussex County in Delaware.

Religion. Mr. Trump enjoyed big gains in the Utah metros of Provo-Orem and Ogden-Clearfield, but much of it can be explained by the drop in third-party voting. Evan McMullin won 21.5 percent of the vote in his home state in 2016, but he didn’t run this year. Utah, the home of a large Mormon population, had the largest decline in third-party vote share in the nation.

There were sizable swings toward Mr. Trump in areas with high percentages of Orthodox Jews, like Rockland County, N.Y., and parts of Brooklyn — perhaps because many Orthodox Jews were angered by coronavirus-related restrictions.

Military presence. Over all, Mr. Biden performed well relative to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 showing in the Northeast, particularly in smaller metro areas, like in upstate New York and in places like Portland, Maine, and Norwich-New London in Connecticut. Connecticut and Maine each moved about six points toward the Democratic ticket.

But there’s another possible reason for the swing in Norwich-New London. New London County; the Bremerton, Wash., area; the Virginia Beach metro; and Colorado Springs (home of the Air Force Academy) have military bases and a fair share of military veterans. Counties classified as military posts by the American Communities Project swung by around six points against Mr. Trump, still voting for him in 2020 over all but by a smaller margin than in 2016.

Some of the correlations are hard to untangle. What we do know more clearly is that there has been about a 2.4-point swing nationwide toward Mr. Biden relative to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 showing, and a similarly modest swing in many of the critical battleground states. But even modest shifts in a roughly evenly divided nation can be decisive.





No.24 article:
In Poland, Protests Over Abortion Ban Could Revolutionize Politics

The government’s conservative social policies, closely tied to the Catholic Church, have met with a backlash from women hoping to change a political culture that developed after Communism fell.

Women have been at the heart of a protest movement that has grown and battled on Poland’s streets since October, sparked by a court decision to ban most abortions. But this was never just a one-issue protest. Something deeper is going on, and it has been building for years.

Hundreds of thousands of women, teenagers and their male allies have been turning out every few days on the streets of cities and small towns across the country for weeks, braving tear gas, court orders, harsh police tactics and surging Covid infections.

Ask them why, and many will say that an uprising felt inevitable.

“There is pressure to go to every single protest, even if you are totally exhausted and you don’t have energy to work, to go to school,” said Zoe Ślusarczyk, from Warsaw, who at 15 is a member of a newly active younger generation that has flocked to the protests and shocked the government.

What is underway in Poland is a forceful renegotiation of the foundations of government power, and the back-room deals, almost exclusively among men, that built them. Women’s demands for reproductive freedom and their calls for greater equality threaten to upend a power structure that has held since the fall of Communism.

Such disruptions have been seen globally in the wake of the #MeToo movement, which has toppled many powerful men, but none have gone to the heart of politics as directly as in Poland. Gender equality would disrupt a political arrangement in the country that has been set for decades: a symbiotic relationship in which the Catholic Church lends its authority to politicians in exchange for the government’s enforcing ecclesiastical morality, including by restricting abortion.

That arrangement now seems to many like a failed bargain with an institution that has been found lacking, after revelations that the church, when it was led by Pope John Paul II, Poland’s favorite son, had protected pedophile priests in Poland and other countries.  The Polish Catholic church declined to comment for this article, but referred the Times to previous statements on the sanctity of life and protection of children.

And the church’s claim to be the defender of Polish democracy, won by supporting the Solidarity movement against Communism in the 1980s, has been undermined by its embrace of the governing Law and Justice party, which has dismantled liberal institutions and promoted xenophobic and authoritarian policies.

Most scholars of political transitions will tell you that successful transformations have one thing in common: Their leaders do not allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good.

Poland’s transition to democracy, and the compromises that were made, was no exception. After the fall of Communism in 1989, the Catholic church gave crucial support to the pro-democracy movement. But while that enabled a smoother transition to democracy than in many other post-Communist countries, it left the church deeply embedded in politics and able to insist that the new government legislate the church’s position on social issues.

One of the Church’s main priorities was a law restricting abortion, which had been widely available in the Communist era.

The resulting 1993 abortion law was “like a contract between politicians and bishops,” said Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a leftist member of Parliament known for her investigations of child sexual abuse within the church. The law came with some exceptions: it allowed abortions in the case of rape or incest, danger to the life of the mother, or fetal abnormality.

But there was no hiding the fact that women had more reproductive freedom under Communist rule than they did in the new democracy.

“It was not a compromise for modern society, for women,” said Danuta Huebner, a Polish member of the European Parliament. “Emotionally, this thing was never solved.”

Subsequent governments have struck similar bargains over issues like Poland’s membership in the European Union. And in 2015, the Law and Justice Party, led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, swept to power with a pitch to voters that combined economic generosity and disgruntled nationalism with Catholic social conservatism. The party’s presidential candidate, Andrzej Duda, won re-election this year.

But women have gained economic and social power even as the far-right government pushes to preserve traditional gender roles that remain popular with voters, both men and women, in many rural areas. According to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the gender wage gap for median earners in Poland is only 10 percent, one of the smallest differentials among the group’s countries. Forty-three percent of young women earn university degrees, compared with only 29 percent of young men. When Poland joined the European Union, that brought new opportunities to work and travel in more secular countries.

Many Polish women, especially in the cities, empowered in other areas of their lives have become less willing to embrace a church that excludes them from positions of power and authority — or a political system that gives that church power over their lives.

“I think, I feel, I decide,” a signature slogan of the protests, has been chanted in streets and squares across the country during weeks of demonstrations.

Mr. Kaczynski says the Catholic church is fundamentally interwoven with the Polish nation, and Polishness itself. And that has meant embracing its values.

Party leaders have claimed that homosexuality is a threat to the soul of the nation, and that the secular values of the European Union are incompatible with Polish life.

Ms. Ślusarczyk, the high schooler from Warsaw, said she fears those who believe in that vision of Polishness, and believes that many hate her for not conforming to it.

“If I go out of the house and I see someone wearing a shirt with a Polish flag or a national symbol or a symbol of the independence day, I feel afraid,” she said. “Because of the way the country is divided, it’s always ‘us’ and ‘them.’”

No issue has provoked open conflict between those factions like abortion. In 2016, Law and Justice tried to pass a law outlawing abortion in the case of fetal abnormality, which accounts for more than 80 percent of the procedures performed each year, but failed after large protests erupted.

The government then turned to the constitutional court, which was packed with party loyalists, and asked for the same restrictions on constitutional grounds.

When the court issued its decision on Oct. 22, the country exploded in even larger protests.

Even though the government later delayed putting the abortion law into effect, the protests have continued, with expectations high that it will eventually be pushed through.

Anna Jakubowska, 40, a businesswoman from Warsaw, kept returning to one word when trying to explain what had moved her and so many other women to protest: anger.

“We are very angry,” Ms. Jakubowska said, at politicians who legislate that women must give birth to severely disabled children but fail to support them as parents, and at fathers and grandfathers who wave away the trauma of unwanted pregnancy. Above all, she said, she was angry at the power afforded to the church even though it excludes women from its hierarchy.

Last year, the documentary “Tell No One” drew widespread public attention for the first time to the Polish church’s history of protecting priests who had raped and molested children for years.

A poll last year by IBRiS research found that fewer than 40 percent of Poles trusted the church, down from 58 percent in 2016.

For Ms. Jakubowska, the contrast between the standards the church wanted to impose upon women and the standard to which it held its own clergy was too much to bear.

“The Bible says if you are the sinner you have to pay the consequences,” she said, “But there are no consequences.”

She added, “That’s why women come to the street.”

In most countries, angry teens shouting at an authority figure would be a dog-bites-man story. But when a video appeared of young women screaming obscenities at a priest in the northwestern town of Szczecinek in late October, it went viral.

The Szczecinek confrontation “beautifully illustrates the generation that has rejected the church’s power,” said Carolin Heilig, a doctoral researcher at the University of London who studies civil society, gender and protest in Poland.

Ms. Huebner, the member of the European Parliament, said that for young Poles, “this discontent has been brewing for a long time.”

“The church having this impact on the ruling party, this relation of host-parasite that exists in Poland, people do not approve of it anymore,” she said.

Poland’s protests have been disruptive, but their outcome remains uncertain. Change can be frightening, even for those who disapprove of the symbiosis between church and state. Unraveling that entanglement will also touch on personal relationships, religious faith, career decisions; for many, that prospect is too daunting.

“The crucial thing is to talk about it,” Ms. Ślusarczyk said. “For example, to grandmas and fathers, people who don’t get it because they never were taught to get it.”

But Ms. Jakubowska believes that change is inevitable.

“Even girls in small towns, even if they are still under the rule of men — because they are — they are changing,” she said. “In a few years there will be a great change because the church will be empty.”

Anatol Magdziarz contributed reporting from Warsaw.

Advertisement





No.25 article:
Paul Sarbanes, 87, Dies; Maryland Senator Fought Accounting Fraud

Early in his career, he introduced the first article of impeachment against Richard Nixon. Decades later, he co-wrote legislation in response to corporate scandals.

Former Senator Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, a publicity-shy lawmaker who wrote landmark legislation to curb fraudulent accounting practices that led to huge investor losses and major corporate bankruptcies in 2001 and 2002, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 87.

Judy Keenan, a longtime aide, said he died while watching a Georgia Senate runoff debate on television at a retirement community in which he lived. She did not specify a cause but said he had had heart problems.

Mr. Sarbanes (pronounced SAR-baynz) may be best remembered for the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, co-sponsored by Representative Michael G. Oxley, an Ohio Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.

Adopted in response to the scandals involving Enron and other companies, the legislation strengthened corporate governance and created a federal oversight board for the accounting industry. In addition, it curbed accounting firms’ consulting work for companies they audited and required them to judge internal fraud controls at those companies. It also required chief executives to certify audits personally and attest to their accuracy.

But while other members of Congress pursued the Enron scandal with splashy televised hearings and spirited denunciations, Mr. Sarbanes approached it by holding 10 thorough hearings to get widespread expert advice on what corrective legislation should include.

Initially opposed by many Republicans and by the powerful lobbying of the accounting industry, the measure eventually passed 97 to 0 in the Senate after another accounting failure, at WorldCom, had sent the stock market plunging.

The House had originally passed a weaker measure but agreed to a compromise that was basically the Senate bill.

Mr. Sarbanes headed the Senate Banking Committee for 18 months in 2001 and 2002. In 2001, he pushed a measure through the committee giving the government more ability to track money laundering involving terrorism. The bill that became part of the Patriot Act, which, signed into law after the attacks of Sept. 11 that year, gave the government broad new powers with which to confront terrorism.

Mr. Sarbanes also served on the Foreign Relations Committee, where he voted against resolutions in 1991 and 2002 authorizing war against Iraq. The first senator of Greek-American heritage, he frequently supported Greece, maintaining that the United States was unduly friendly to its antagonist Turkey.

Having his name in headlines over the accounting measure was a rare moment in his 30 years in the Senate. Mr. Sarbanes avoided publicity and scoffed at repeated attempts by Maryland Republicans to label him a “stealth senator.”

Mr. Sarbanes saw his career as having “bookends,” as he put it in an interview for this obituary in 2013: It began in 1974 with his role in the impeachment proceedings against President Richard M. Nixon and closed with the accounting law.

He was in the second of his three terms in the House and a member of its Judiciary Committee when he was given the assignment of introducing and defending, on national television, the critical first article of impeachment against Nixon, charging him with obstruction of justice.

It was a surprise assignment. The committee’s chairman, Peter W. Rodino Jr., had called Mr. Sarbanes, who was 41 at the time, into his office shortly before the committee met and gave him the task. Mr. Rodino had been impressed with Mr. Sarbanes’s “intellectual honesty” and legal mind, Francis O’Brien, a key committee aide at the time, said years later.

The article was approved on a bipartisan 27-to-11 vote. The committee approved two other articles, but Nixon resigned before the full House could vote on them.

Mr. Sarbanes played a similar role on another highly emotional issue four years later. As a freshman senator in 1978, he was on the Senate floor almost constantly, explaining and defending the treaties turning the Panama Canal over to Panama.

Approving those pacts, he told the Senate, “will make these treaties a historic achievement” for the American people, and for the protection of American interests, and “will show a great power bringing might and right into harmony.”

While Mr. Sarbanes compiled a 95 percent liberal voting record, according to the progressive group Americans for Democratic Action, some of his liberal allies grumbled that he often stayed away from partisan fights when they saw Republican vulnerabilities.

For the most part he operated quietly. “I was doing a lot,” he said in 2013. “I just didn’t make a lot of noise about it.” As George J. Mitchell, the Democratic majority leader from 1989 to 1995, observed, “Paul was effective because he didn’t seek credit, which endeared him to his colleagues.”

Mr. Mitchell, like his predecessor as leader, Robert C. Byrd, sought Mr. Sarbanes’s help and advice on difficult issues, especially those relating to the economy. Mr. Sarbanes served two two-year terms as chairman of Congress’s Joint Economic Committee.

Thomas A. Daschle, the Democratic leader from 1995 to 2005, said in 2013 that when he was “trying to persuade the caucus to do something difficult, I would use Paul to bring it home, to close the argument.”

Recalling the tense days of President Bill Clinton’s impeachment trial in 1999, Mr. Daschle said: “My whole goal was to keep the caucus as unified as possible, and I would ask Paul to summarize in a compelling way what the issue was. He had such a great legal mind.”

Paul Spyros Sarbanes was born Feb. 3, 1933, in Salisbury, on Maryland’s Eastern Shore. He was the son of two Greek immigrants, Spyros and Matina (Tsigounis) Sarbanes, who ran the Mayflower restaurant in Salisbury. The family lived upstairs.

A star student and athlete at Wicomico High School, Mr. Sarbanes had strictly local college ambitions until a Princeton alumnus visited the school and met him. He received a full scholarship and became the first student from Wicomico to go to Princeton.

Mr. Sarbanes graduated in 1954 and won a Rhodes Scholarship. He attended Balliol College at Oxford and received a second bachelor’s degree in 1957. He earned a law degree at Harvard in 1960 and within a year or so married Christine Dunbar, whom he had met at Oxford.

He clerked for a federal judge; worked as an aide to Walter W. Heller, the chairman of President John F. Kennedy’s Council of Economic Advisers; practiced law in Baltimore; and was executive director of a commission writing a new Baltimore City Charter.

In 1966 he ran for a seat in Maryland’s House of Delegates and won, and in 1970 he challenged a 13-term House veteran, George H. Fallon, chairman of the pork-barrel-rich House Committee on Public Works, in a Democratic primary. Campaigning door to door with his wife, Mr. Sarbanes won with 52 percent of the vote to the incumbent’s 45 percent and went on to win the general election.

Redistricting after the 1970 census pushed him into another potential race against a Democratic House committee chairman, Edward A. Garmatz. Mr. Garmatz headed the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, which was important to the port of Baltimore. But he retired, and Mr. Sarbanes won re-election easily.

He was then elected to the Senate, defeating Senator J. Glenn Beall Jr., a Republican, with 57 percent of the vote in 1976. He was attacked in 1982 by the National Conservative Political Action Committee, which had used the Panama Canal issue in 1980 to help defeat several Democratic senators. But Mr. Sarbanes won comfortably then and again in 1988, 1994 and 2000, before announcing in 2005 that he would not run again in 2006.

He is survived by a brother, Anthony; a sister, Zoe Pappas; two sons, John, who holds his father’s old seat in the House, and Michael; a daughter, Janet Sarbanes; and several grandchildren. His wife died in 2009 after 48 years of marriage.

Mr. Sarbanes was always attentive to local issues. He led the effort to clean up the Chesapeake Bay after another Maryland senator, Charles McC. Mathias, retired in 1987. He also pushed for federal support of mass transit; a transit center in Silver Spring, Md., is named for him.

After retiring, Mr. Sarbanes, unlike many senators, rejected the idea of taking a position at a Washington law firm. If he had, he told friends, sooner or later he would be asked to take on the distasteful choice of lobbying a former colleague.





No.26 article:
Israeli Soccer Team, Infamous for Anti-Arab Fans, Has New Co-Owner: a Sheikh

The barrier-shattering deal puts an Emirati royal at the helm of Beitar Jerusalem, the only Israeli team that has never fielded an Arab player and whose most extreme fans chant racist slurs.

JERUSALEM — A top-tier Israeli soccer team with a notoriously racist, Arab-hating fan base has sold a 50 percent ownership stake to a member of one of the royal families of the United Arab Emirates.

The barrier-shattering deal is among the first fruits of Israel’s nearly three-month-old normalization agreement with the Emirates and carries outsize symbolic importance: It puts a Muslim sheikh at the helm of Beitar Jerusalem, the only Israeli team that has never fielded an Arab player — and whose most extremist fans routinely chant virulent slurs like “Death to Arabs.”

The new co-owners, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, 50, and Moshe Hogeg, 39, an Israeli cryptocurrency executive who acquired the team in 2018, said in a telephone interview Monday night that their union was motivated in large part by the goal of combating exactly that sort of hatred.

“Our message is that we are all equal,” Mr. Hogeg said. “We want to show to young kids that we are all equal and that we can work and do beautiful things together. The message is more powerful than the football.”

Sheikh Hamad, a first cousin of the de facto Emirati ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, suggested Beitar could soon have an Arab member on its squad.

“The door’s open to anyone, for any talented player, no matter where he is from or what his religion is,” he said. “It should be based on merit.”

He said he opposed building walls between people. “We should teach them that we are taking a positive step towards peace and harmony,” he said.

Already, several prominent Arab players have expressed a willingness to break the Beitar barrier, said Uri Levy, a soccer writer who runs the sport news site BabaGol. (An Arab midfielder on the Israeli national soccer team, Diaa Sabia, was signed in September to the Al Nasr team in Dubai.)

Israeli liberals skeptical about the country’s normalization deals nonetheless found reason to cheer the conspicuous twist of the new alliance.

“The sale of Beitar to the Arabs is the clearest sign that God exists,” Noa Landau, the diplomatic correspondent for Haaretz, wrote on Twitter.

Many Arab commentators jeered, however.

Saied Hasnen, a sports radio host, called the deal “shameful.” He said that he opposed any Arab normalization of Israel, but particularly lamented the sheikh’s decision to go into business with Beitar, calling the team and its supporters “a sinful and dirty swamp of racists who hate Arabs — the worst people in society.”

Khalid Dokhi, the director-general of Bnei Sakhnin, Israel’s most successful Arab club, expressed mixed feelings. “If it leads to a change in the racist culture, that would be beneficial,” said Mr. Dokhi, whose team plays in an Arab city. “But if it doesn’t, it’s a waste of money.”

Sheikh Hamad’s investment appears to be to a giant leap forward in what has been a long and often tempestuous struggle by several team owners to tame Beitar Jerusalem’s ultra-right-wing fan base.

While other clubs have long fielded Jewish and Arab players, who regularly play together for the Israeli national soccer team, Beitar’s far-right supporters’ group, La Familia, agitated against such a move, sometimes violently. The club has regularly been fined and handed stadium bans for violent behavior as well as racist chants.

A Nigerian Muslim who joined the team in 2004 was regularly harassed and quit after less than a year. In 2005, La Familia protested over reports that Beitar might sign Abbas Suan, an Israeli-Arab who starred for Bnei Sakhnin. When he scored a vital goal for Israel in a World Cup qualification match against Ireland, Beitar supporters held up a banner saying, “Abbas Suan, you do not represent us.”

Another attempt was made in 2013 when two Muslim players, this time from Chechnya, were signed. Again there was violent opposition, captured searingly in the documentary “Forever Pure.”

When one of the Chechens, striker Zaur Sadayev, scored his first goal for the club to secure a 1-1 tie with rival Maccabi Netanya, hundreds of Beitar fans chose to leave the stadium in disgust rather than celebrate. The Chechen players lasted only a handful of games.

Mr. Levy, the soccer writer, said the film was a turning point. “It opened the eyes of many Beitar fans about the need to grow up and let go of this vicious, evil and ancient stance that has no place anywhere in the world anymore,” he said.

Maya Zinshtein, the film’s director, said it held up a mirror up to what she called Beitar’s “silent majority” — passionate but less extreme fans who she said were repulsed by the film’s depiction of La Familia’s overt racism and how it was sullying Israel’s image.

Ms. Zinshtein said a change could be seen last year after Beitar signed Ali Mohamed, a Nigerien Christian of Muslim lineage, who was eventually accepted. “You need to start from somewhere,” she said.

Moshe Zimmerman, a retired professor of sports history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said Beitar’s right-wing fans were confronting a double conundrum in the sale to Sheikh Hamad, “because the one to blame is the man Beitar admires most” — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who struck the normalization deal with the Emiratis.

But Mr. Zimmerman predicted that hard-core Beitar fans would find a way to make peace with their new co-owner. “They could say the Emiratis are the good Arabs and the others are the bad Arabs,” he said.

Sheikh Hamad said he planned to invest about $92 million into the club over the next decade.

In the interview, Mr. Hogeg said he had been drawn by the challenge of turning around Beitar’s reputation. “I thought it should be a great thing to do — to fix this and show the other side,” he said.

Mr. Hogeg said he had taken the trouble of obtaining the blessing of a leading Israeli ultra-Orthodox rabbi before going ahead with the deal.

Sheikh Hamad, asked how the deal had come together, responded simply: “God connected us.”

However divinely ordained, the pairing was of special significance to Mr. Hogeg, who said that as the son of a Tunisian-born father and Moroccan-born mother, he identified with Beitar’s heavily Mizrahi fan base, Jews with roots in North Africa and the Middle East — and, he said, with what he called “our brothers” in today’s Arab world.

“I see myself as an Arab Jew,” he said. “And for me, when I look at Beitar’s legacy, look at what they’re screaming all the time: ‘Yalla Beitar!’ What is ‘yalla’? It’s Arabic. They don’t say, ‘Go.’ They don’t say, ‘Kadima’” — Hebrew for “let’s go” — “They say, ‘Yalla.’ This is the most symbolic thing for me.”





No.27 article:
A Referee Pursues Her Calling in the Men’s Game

Last season, Crystal Hogan was the only woman officiating games in the top level of college basketball. The question is: Why?

COMPTON, Calif. — There are nearly 900 officials working in the top tier of men’s college basketball, keeping order at thousands of games. They wear black-and-white striped shirts and try to keep a low profile.

Last season, only one of them was a woman. Her name is Crystal Hogan, and when she sat down in February to talk about it, about the lonely and perplexing ratio of being 1 out of 900 in N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball, she was coolly diplomatic, as a good official should be.

“I can’t answer that,” she said. “I’m just happy for the opportunity.”

Hogan, 43, is glad to know that the number of women officiating top men’s college games has doubled this season with the addition of Amy Bonner. “I hope there’s more coming,” Hogan said last week.

In an era in which women are breaking into jobs traditionally held by men across the sports world — there are female assistant coaches in the N.B.A. and the N.F.L., for example, and last month Kim Ng became the first female general manager in Major League Baseball, with the Miami Marlins — men’s college sports, generally, have been slower to adapt.

For female basketball referees, men’s college basketball may be the bleakest of frontiers. In the N.B.A., four of the 70 full-time officials last season were women, the league said. In its developmental G League, 25 of 63 were women — a ratio similar to that of the W.N.B.A., where 11 of 27 referees in 2020 were women.

In college basketball, there are about 500 women officiating in Division I over all; all but Hogan and Bonner work in the women’s game.

The N.C.A.A. does not track how many women have ever worked Division I men’s games, but it might be counted on one hand. Only one, Melanie Davis, has officiated in the N.C.A.A. tournament, at a first-round game in 2002.

That was the year that Hogan began officiating. She was raised in Compton, mostly by her late grandmother, whose name is tattooed on Hogan’s wrist. She played many sports as a girl, but not much basketball until high school. She took to it quickly and earned her way to Compton College, a community college coached at the time by a former N.B.A. player, Louie Nelson, and became a leading scorer.

“Now that I look back, I never paid attention to the referees — never,” Hogan said. She laughed. “Maybe because I didn’t play defense, I don’t know.”

She was recruited to Long Beach State. Her playing career was disappointing, she said, but she earned degrees in psychology and criminal justice, leading to a job as a social worker in Los Angeles.

Part of Hogan’s job was accompanying police officers on raids and searches, figuring out the care and placement for any children swept up. She soon realized that she liked the law enforcement aspect, too.

She now works as a parole agent for California’s Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, overseeing about 40 cases, people who have served time for violent crimes. She visits them once or twice a month, occasionally arresting those who violate their parole.

“You have to know your surroundings, trust your training,” Hogan said, and there are times when she might be talking about either of her professions, or both. “But you know what? I’m from the city of Compton. I’ve seen quite a bit. I’ve heard quite a bit. But when you deal with people with respect, and show them respect, you get respect back.”

In 2002, a friend asked if Hogan would be interested in officiating, as a way to earn money and stay connected to basketball. In the scrambled hours between a full-time job and raising a daughter as a single mother, she went through the training and worked high school girls’ games, because that was where schedulers nudged her.

Her first game was with a heavyset partner who did not want to rotate into the prescribed officiating positions on the floor, as Hogan had trained to do, and who scolded her when she called a foul late in a blowout game.

“He yelled at me from way in the backcourt, ‘That’s not a foul!’” Hogan said. “I couldn’t believe it. In front of everybody. After that, I was so discombobulated. I was so embarrassed.”

She soon hardened from criticism (“I’ve learned to ignore things — nothing really bothers me anymore,” she said) and moved up to junior college women’s basketball.

She spent summers watching the Drew League, rooted not far from home, featuring street ball legends and pro players. In 2007 or 2008, she said, organizers pulled her onto the floor to officiate, calling games featuring the likes of LeBron James and Kevin Durant.

A highlight remains calling a foul on Kobe Bryant. Her phone holds a photograph of her officiating with a serious expression while Bryant smirks beside her.

About that time, Hogan said, she was approached by a men’s college basketball officiating coordinator.

“He says, ‘If you were a guy, I’d hire you today,’” Hogan recalled. She took it as a compliment. Back then, Hogan said, she had never heard of women officiating top-level men’s college games.

Over the next decade, she moved on to the N.B.A.’s development league and Division I women’s basketball, a résumé not unlike that of Bonner, a veteran of the W.N.B.A., the G League and international basketball. She was working the Drew League when she caught the attention of the veteran N.C.A.A. men’s official Donnie Nunez, who mentioned her to Bobby Dibler, the men’s officiating coordinator for six major conferences. Hogan was invited to a camp for officials in Las Vegas that took place during a major A.A.U. tournament.

“You don’t know when or where it’s going to happen, but you always end up in a game that’s extremely difficult or challenging to officiate,” Dibler said. “That’s where officials, unbeknownst to them, have a chance to shine — or, maybe, not shine so well.”

Dibler was in the stands when Hogan restored order to an unruly contest, keeping her wits and doling out technical fouls in the right places. Dibler was impressed. He asked his top officials: Would you work with her? Yes, they all said.

Verne Harris, a Division I official who also supervises referees in the Division II Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference, offered Hogan a job. She took it, thinking she had just swapped women’s Division I basketball for the chance to referee men’s Division II games.

Within weeks, though, came a call from Dibler. Hogan remembers precisely when it was — Aug. 15, 2018, at 1:02 p.m., as she drove east on the 91 Freeway, not far from where she grew up in Compton. “I mean, I could have been anywhere,” she said.

Dibler offered more than she dreamed: a spot working the Pac-12, Mountain West, Big West, Big Sky, West Coast and Western Athletic conferences.

“I almost had an accident,” Hogan said. “The magnitude of that — I knew it would be life-changing.”

Hogan spent the past two seasons proving herself in nonconference games, filling out her late-season schedule in the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference and in junior college games around California.

This season, Hogan will work major-college conference games in the West. “She’s earned that,” Dibler said.

While the N.C.A.A. has a Title IX mandate for gender balance among college athletes, there is no such initiative when it comes to officials. Disparities can be found in plenty of other places in college sports, like administration (where only a few of the 65 athletic directors in top conferences are women) and coaching (where, for example, every Division I national champion in women’s volleyball has been coached by a man).

J.D. Collins, the N.C.A.A.’s coordinator of officials for men’s basketball, said that he did not know many women striving to officiate men’s basketball, given that pay is roughly the same in women’s basketball and the pressure there is often less intense. The few women who have gone on to the N.B.A. have mostly come through the ranks of women’s basketball.

“I don’t think there is any opposition to it on the men’s side,” Collins said. “But it also requires a desire to come to the men’s side.”

Penny Davis, a longtime W.N.B.A. and women’s college basketball referee who oversees women’s officiating for the N.C.A.A., said she knew of only a couple of women with keen interest in working on the men’s side of college basketball. The style of play and the schedules are different enough that referees cannot easily bounce between the two.

“These young females, they just want to work,” Davis said. “And a lot of men’s Division I collegiate conferences are really top-heavy with veterans, and it’s hard for them to crack into that.”

Still, the number of women officiating women’s games is rising. Violet Palmer, considered a pioneer for being the first woman (along with Dee Kantner) to officiate in the N.B.A., in 1997, is the coordinator of women’s basketball officials for the Pac-12, Big West and Western Athletic conferences.

A decade ago, she said, about 30 percent of her officials were women. Now it is about 60 percent.

“We’ve taken giant leaps forward, which is amazing,” Palmer said. “Some of us are die-hard women’s basketball fans. We want to promote our game. We want young girls to see women working women’s games.”

Plenty want to see them working men’s games, too. When Bonner officiated a nonconference men’s game at Dayton last week, the Atlantic 10 Conference heralded it as a first for the league.

Hogan’s appearances are rarely noted. On a weeknight in February when she refereed a men’s game at Compton College, where she had played more than 20 years before, there were about 30 people in the gym.

During a dead ball, Hogan sidled up to a talkative player in need of a lesson in sportsmanship. One outburst later, she gave him a technical foul.

The player slunk away, lesson learned. His coach nodded, knowing it was the right call.

Hogan kept the game moving, just trying to make it fair for everyone else.





No.28 article:
Archaeologists Could Help Bring Otters Back From the Dead

The sea mammals vanished from Oregon’s coast long ago, but a technique from human archaeology offers a clue to restoring them.

From 1969 to 1971, the United States was testing nuclear weapons beneath one of Alaska’s Aleutian Islands, worryingly close to some of the world’s few surviving sea otters. The subterranean explosions prompted conservation managers to carry out a daring plan.

First, they netted some Alaskan sea otters. Then they set 59 free off the coast of Washington State and 93 more near Oregon. This was part rescue mission, part homecoming. Before fur traders hunted them to the brink of extinction, sea otters used to bob and roll up and down North America’s Pacific Coast, gobbling down sea urchins and helping to maintain waving towers of kelp.

In Washington, the transplants took. But within a few years the Oregon otters vanished. “The biggest question is: What happened to Oregon?” said Shawn Larson, a conservation biologist at the Seattle Aquarium, because the answer could inform transplantation efforts.

One hypothesis holds that the otters simply swam off, heading back north. But another explanation, advanced in 2008, suggests that the cold water-adapted Alaskans died out because they were too different from Oregon’s original pre-fur trade otters. Scientists divide sea otters into northern and southern subspecies, each adapted to its own habitat. If the state’s ancient otter inhabitants were more closely related to the southern subspecies, maybe sea otter reintroduction efforts along that stretch of coast should instead work with animals from Californian populations.

A technique borrowed from the science of human archaeology may answer this conservation question. New research published Wednesday in Proceedings of the Royal Society B suggests that the northern subspecies had long settled along the Oregon coast.

“Our recommendations are that actually Alaskan or other northern populations would be appropriate,” said Hannah Wellman, a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Oregon who led the study. The research compiled the most comprehensive genetic data set yet of Oregon’s original sea otters.

To understand which otters had once lived there, the team turned to otter teeth found in two archaeological sites in northern Oregon associated with the Clatsop and Tillamook groups. Their goal was to extract genetic sequences from the specimens.

These otters were hunted or traded well over a thousand years ago, long before European contact and the maritime fur trade, and the results of the analysis show it. “We have a lot more genetic diversity in these two adjacent sites than we do in modern sea otters,” said Courtney Hofman, a molecular anthropologist who extracted ancient DNA from the teeth at the University of Oklahoma.

To complement that finding, the team also reached out to the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. for a few rare sea otter specimens from the waning days of the fur trade when otters became increasingly scarce.

Barred from any analysis that would destroy the samples, the researchers settled on giving those preserved otters the equivalent of a dentist visit. They scraped calculus off the teeth, then carefully extracted the small percentage of otter DNA in that calculus.

Combined with previous studies, genomic sequences from both time periods show that both northern and southern sea otter populations once called Oregon’s coastline home. Perhaps the region was once a genetic way station, allowing interbreeding up and down the Pacific Coast, says Dr. Larson, who did not participate in the current work. And that implies that Alaskan otters can be used for reintroduction programs.

Ms. Wellman says she plans to share her data with the Elakha Alliance, a nonprofit organization supported by the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians and the Coquille Indian Tribe. The group’s goal is to bring back Oregon’s otters — and the towering kelp forests they tend — for good.

This past February, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service funded a feasibility study by the Elakha Alliance, the first in a long series of evaluations and steps that could ultimately bring back Oregon’s sea otters.

Dr. Larson, who is helping write that assessment, says she plans to incorporate the new analysis of Oregon’s past otter diversity. Perhaps reintroductions can bring in both Californian sea otters to the state’s southern shores, and Alaskan otters farther north.

“Then as the populations grow, they’ll merge, and now we’ll have a connected group that is basically continuous from southern Oregon all the way up to Russia,” she said. “Which would be awesome.”





No.29 article:
How New York City Plans to Keep Children Safe as Schools Reopen

There will likely be more closures of individual school buildings as the amount of testing increases.

On Monday, New York City will reopen some of its public schools in the teeth of a worsening coronavirus outbreak.

The decision to do so reflects changing public health thinking around the importance of keeping schools operating, particularly for young students, and the real-world experience of over two months of in-person classes in the city’s school system, the nation’s largest.

Yet the whiplash many New York City students, parents and teachers felt — from a full shutdown before Thanksgiving to a partial reopening less than three weeks later — is not likely to abate as the fall turns to winter.

Mayor Bill de Blasio has committed himself to keeping schools open, his aides say, and has started with elementary schools and those for students with severe disabilities. (About 190,000 children in the grades and schools the city is reopening this week would be eligible.)

But the city’s rules for handling positive cases all but guarantee frequent and sudden closures of individual classrooms and school buildings.

And it remains unclear whether the city will be able to reopen its middle and high schools to in-person learning any time soon.

While the road ahead will be rocky, top public health officials in the city expressed confidence that public schools would remain islands of relative safety even as the number of coronavirus cases in New York City reaches levels not seen since the devastation of the spring.

Before the school year began, the city set a purposefully low threshold for shutting school buildings in the event that students, teachers or staff tested positive: two cases in different parts of the same school building, without a clear link, close the building for two weeks.

That threshold resulted in frequent closures throughout the fall.

The city closed 27 school buildings for two weeks on Nov. 15 — the most in a single day — just days before Mr. de Blasio ordered the citywide shutdown.

And because new positive tests kept coming in, the city actually reached its highest level of virus closures almost a week after — 163 school buildings. (City officials said they were tracking cases in 1,400 buildings run by the Education Department and about 2,000 community-run early childhood sites.)

The citywide shutdown provided enough time for most to reopen. But many will likely close again.

That’s because the central part of the reopening plan is more frequent random testing — weekly rather than monthly. With the virus spreading in all communities of the city, more positive tests are likely.

It was already happening. The positive test rate from random testing in city schools increased from 0.17 percent in mid-October to 0.28 percent in November, according to city data.

Some public health experts have pushed for a less stringent threshold, to avoid frequent individual school closures.

But for Michael Mulgrew, the president of the teachers union, the frequent closures are a key part of why schools have remained safe. “This has worked,” he said. “It worked because we never had a spread in any school.”

Mr. de Blasio closed the schools because the city as a whole had hit a 3 percent positive test rate — a threshold that he had set as an upper limit for keeping them open.

But once that level had been exceeded, Mr. de Blasio and his top aides decided reopening would be based not on a citywide test positivity rate, but on the ability of the city to conduct weekly testing of school communities.

They worried that rules set by the state for rolling back business reopenings and restricting activities — the system of yellow, orange and red zones — would mean that even if the city reopened schools, they could close again soon. But the state provided an exception for schools: the shift to weekly testing.

“We wanted to make sure that we weren’t going to be opening and closing,” said Dean Fuleihan, the first deputy mayor. The city, he said, wanted “to have a testing regimen strong enough that we would meet any state standard in the orange and red zone whenever those would happen.”

Officials scrambled — remotely and from offices inside City Hall — to figure out the numbers needed to randomly test students and staff each week across hundreds of schools.

It was not enough to test every school.

“We didn’t have the capacity to do the entire system weekly,” said Kayla Arslanian, Mr. de Blasio’s deputy chief of staff, who has been focused on coronavirus testing. “We are building to get there.”

It was a question not of lab capacity but of finding enough trained staff members to collect samples. The city needed teams of two to four people to go from school to school.

Jeff Thamkittikasem, director of the mayor’s office of operations, said the city had nearly doubled the number of such teams — from 65 to 125 — and could conduct as many as 8,000 tests in schools each day, up from about 4,100 during the initial school testing program.

One thing could be safely jettisoned, officials and public health experts believed: the 3 percent positivity threshold used to close the schools in the first place.

“The 3 percent was quite arbitrary,” said Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, an epidemiologist at Columbia University.

The coronavirus appears to spread less readily in schools, particularly elementary schools, she said. “We know that children appear less likely to be infected, have milder symptoms or get sick and have bad consequences with Covid-19,” she said.

City officials reached the same conclusions.

Mr. de Blasio had settled upon the 3 percent threshold before the start of the school year as a way of showing how seriously the city would take safety in schools. Reaching that number seemed far-off when the citywide test positivity rate hovered around 1 percent during the summer. And there was uncertainty.

“We felt at that time that we didn’t have absolute evidence about how safe we could make the schools or how safe other places could make them,” said Dr. Jay Varma, a senior adviser to Mr. de Blasio on public health.

Now, he said, city officials are much more confident in the safety of schools. “It’s taken a lot of learning by doing,” he said.

The move to quickly reopen elementary schools reflects a change in thinking among public health experts, who now advise trying to keep schools open during an outbreak, particularly for young students.

Reopening would require changes, New York City officials decided, but not too many.

Something was working to keep the virus from spreading inside public schools, the city’s top public health officials came to believe. Data from thousands of random tests inside schools increasingly convinced them of that.

But even months into the pandemic, city officials could not say with confidence which parts of their approach — social distancing in classrooms, improved ventilation or hundreds of school-by-school closures — were critically necessary, and which could be changed.

“I don’t know for sure which components of our program could be relaxed and produce the exact same outcomes,” Dr. Varma said.

So they have kept almost all of them in place.

When elementary school students return on Monday, classrooms will operate as they did before.

The biggest changes will be the increased chance of being tested randomly — all parents must consent to have their children tested at school — and the possibility of attending five days a week.

One thing that could hamper the city’s efforts, officials cautioned, is a truly rampant second wave in New York.

The test positivity rate has only increased since the city closed schools and the seven-day rolling average rate exceeded 5 percent last week. The weekly average for new cases recently topped 1,900. Hospitalizations have quickly mounted.

City Hall did not create a new threshold for citywide closure. State rules currently require schools to close across an entire region if the seven-day test positivity rate in that region reaches 9 percent — a level that grows nearer in New York City each day.

State officials did not respond to a request for comment on whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo would stick to that element of his plan. The state is in the process of updating its metrics as the number of cases skyrocket.

“The doctors are telling us that this is going to work,” said Mr. Mulgrew of the current approach. But, he added, events could change the calculation: “Look, if we’re at 12 percent, we’ve got a problem.”





No.30 article:
MSNBC Names Rashida Jones as President, Succeeding Phil Griffin

Ms. Jones, currently a senior vice president at the network, will become the highest-ranking Black woman in the TV news industry.

MSNBC was already preparing for one momentous presidential transition next year. Now the 24-hour cable channel and home to liberal stars like Rachel Maddow is about to take on a second.

Phil Griffin, the MSNBC president whose left-leaning shows yielded big ratings in the Trump years and minted media brands like “The Rachel Maddow Show” and “Morning Joe,” will depart on Feb. 1 after a 12-year tenure, the network said on Monday.

He is to be succeeded by Rashida Jones, a senior vice president for news at MSNBC and NBC News, who will become the first Black woman to take charge of a major television news network. Ms. Jones, 39, currently oversees daytime news coverage for the network and breaking news and specials for NBC’s broadcast news division.

Her promotion, announced by Cesar Conde, the chairman of NBCUniversal News Group, is another big shake-up in the network’s management ranks. Mr. Conde, who formerly ran Telemundo, took over the news division this year after Andrew Lack departed following a bumpy tenure.

Ms. Jones, who once served as director of live programming for the Weather Channel, joined NBCUniversal seven years ago. MSNBC staff members took notice of what has been a steady ascent: Beginning last year, she was the executive producer for a pair of primary debates that set ratings records for a Democratic presidential contest.

This past April, she was handed oversight of MSNBC’s daytime news coverage, and within three months, she had added weekend news programming to her portfolio. By the fall, Ms. Jones produced two town-hall events with the 2020 presidential candidates and helped supervise preparation for Kristen Welker, the NBC correspondent who moderated the second presidential debate to glowing reviews.

In a memo to employees, Mr. Conde praised Ms. Jones’s “laserlike focus and grace under pressure.” Her new role was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.

Ms. Jones will assume control of a news network that reached ratings highs as a safe space for liberals enraged by President Trump, and is now pondering how to retain those viewers after the chief villain of its prime-time programming leaves office.

She also inherits a slate of network stars, some of whom are deeply loyal to Mr. Griffin, 64, the executive who joined MSNBC at its founding in 1996 and put in place much of the channel’s current lineup.

Besides handing Ms. Maddow her prime-time break in 2008, Mr. Griffin was also known throughout MSNBC as a masterful corporate tactician, surviving numerous shake-ups and even periods of prolonged ratings declines.

In a farewell memo on Monday, Mr. Griffin recalled his more than three decades at NBC, including memories of working with Jane Pauley and Bryant Gumbel at the “Today” show and a late-night reporting trip with Tom Brokaw in Somalia. (Colleagues speak highly of Mr. Griffin’s Brokaw impression.)

A vegetarian and spinning class enthusiast, Mr. Griffin distinguished himself as a boisterous executive with a knack for managing the large egos of television news. But he harbored other pursuits: A die-hard Mets devotee who wore his fandom on his sleeve, Mr. Griffin is also an investor in a sports bar in Manhattan called Bodega 88, which has played host to many an MSNBC holiday party.

Mr. Griffin wrote on Monday that, after Election Day, he told NBC leadership “that the time felt right to hang up my cleats.”

He also invoked less happy times at MSNBC, noting the network in its early days “had trouble breaking through.” He recalled that during a rather fallow ratings period, the former NBC chairman Bob Wright greeted him with a not-so-flattering nickname: “Hey, flatliner.”

By the time Mr. Trump took office in 2017, MSNBC was surging back. Last month, amid a bruising election and the resurgence of the coronavirus, the network notched its highest viewership numbers in a quarter-century.





No.31 article:
The Stimulus Compromise Is $908 Billion Better Than Nothing

The Senate’s plan is flawed. Doing nothing would be much worse.

Americans urgently need Congress to deliver a fresh round of economic aid. Millions of people who lost jobs in the spring are reaching the end of their unemployment benefits. Many have fallen behind on rent or mortgage payments. Many do not have enough to eat.

A wave of good news about vaccines offers reason for hope that the coronavirus pandemic will loosen its grip next year and that economic growth will accelerate. That makes it all the more important to build a bridge allowing people to get through the winter months.

It is heartening that legislative leaders in both parties say they want a deal before heading home for the holidays. A $908 billion proposal advanced by a bipartisan group of senators offers a reasonable starting point. It’s not enough money, but Republicans are refusing to do more, and Democratic leaders have concluded that some aid is better than nothing.

President Trump now appears to have lost interest in leading the country. But President-elect Joe Biden has stepped into the void, repeatedly urging the necessity of an aid deal and rightly arguing that Congress can do more next year.

“It’s just the start,” Mr. Biden said on Friday. “Congress will need to act again in January.”

The need for aid has been obscured to some extent by the rise of the stock market and by seven consecutive months of job growth. But stocks are owned mostly by the wealthy, and the jobs gains need to be placed in the context of the enormous job losses in the early months of the pandemic. Even after those months of job growth, the share of Americans who have lost jobs and have not found new ones is greater than in any other year since World War II.

We are climbing out of a hole so deep that we’re still farther down than we’ve been before.

Nor is it sufficient to rely on coronavirus vaccinations to revive economic growth. Bringing the pandemic under control is a necessary precondition for recovery, but it won’t happen soon enough to protect millions of workers and businesses from experiencing deep damage to their fortunes. Some of that damage, like the closure of a business or the loss of a home, may not easily be reversed even once it is safe for people to return to something like normal life.

In the early months of the pandemic, the government took strong and effective action to limit the economic fallout, pumping trillions of dollars into the economy. But the flow of aid has been dwindling since the summer, and several programs are on the verge of ending.

About 12 million Americans are currently receiving federal unemployment benefits under pandemic programs that are scheduled to expire at the end of the year. The federal government is sending weekly checks to roughly 7.3 million freelance and contract workers who are not eligible for standard state unemployment benefits. It also is sending checks to 4.6 million workers who have exhausted their eligibility for state benefits.

In normal times, cutting off benefits is intended to encourage people to look for work. In the midst of a pandemic, with few jobs available and public health authorities urging people to stay home, that amounts to mindless cruelty.

The end of a patchwork of restrictions on evictions and foreclosures threatens to expose millions of families to eviction. According to the Census Bureau, 6 percent of homeowners and 16 percent of renters reported in mid-November that they were behind on their rent or mortgage payments.

Businesses also need help, particularly as state and local governments impose a new round of restrictions. The number of small businesses nationwide was 29 percent lower in November than at the beginning of the year, according to Harvard’s Opportunity Insights project. Without federal aid, many more restaurants and stores simply will not survive.

The consequences extend beyond a few months of pain. Rebuilding is much harder than preserving. As businesses close, there are fewer jobs for workers to reclaim. Workers who lose their homes may be forced to move — away from former jobs, schools, communities.

It is worth emphasizing that there is no substitute for congressional action. State and local governments lack the resources; unlike the federal government, they cannot run deficits.

The Federal Reserve is engaged in a wide-ranging effort to support the economy by making it cheap and easy to borrow money, but the painfully slow pace of recovery following the last recession provided an object lesson in the limits of relying on low interest rates.

Investors are eager to lend money to the federal government, and borrowing costs are low. Those raising concerns about future interest payments on federal debt tend to compare the burden with the present size of the American economy. But as the economists Jason Furman and Lawrence Summers argue in a new paper, it makes more sense to compare future payments against future economic output, and by that measure, the burden looks a lot less scary. There’s no guarantee of future growth, of course, but that’s the point: Invest in economic recovery now, and the nation’s debts will be easier to pay tomorrow.

The compromise now on the table is flawed. It does not provide enough help for state and local governments or for workers. In addition to providing necessary financial help for businesses, it includes a twisted provision providing special legal protections to businesses that fail to protect their workers. But there is no obvious benefit in turning it down.

Millions of Americans are suffering. The situation is deteriorating. Send money now.





No.32 article:
On Iran, Biden Can Bide His Time

The new administration should not be stampeded into returning to the nuclear deal.

President-elect Joe Biden has made it clear that his preferred method for dealing with Iran is to find a way back to the nuclear deal the Obama administration concluded in 2015, while bargaining for an extension to some of its key provisions.

“If Iran returns to strict compliance,” Biden wrote in a September op-ed for CNN, “the United States would rejoin the agreement as a starting point for follow-on negotiations.”

The Iranian regime, for its part, has made it clear that, in reaction to last month’s assassination of its nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, it intends to ramp up its production of enriched uranium while threatening to expel international inspectors by early February if the United States doesn’t immediately lift sanctions.

The regime has also ruled out any extensions to the nuclear deal, from which President Trump withdrew in 2018. “It will never be renegotiated,” says Foreign Minister Javad Zarif. “Period.”

There’s a way out of this impasse. The Biden administration should — and, more important, can — bide its time.

Tehran is desperate to have sanctions lifted. In 2016, after the nuclear deal had taken effect, it exported roughly 2.1 million barrels of crude oil a day. In 2020, after the Trump administration imposed sanctions, it exported less than a quarter of that. The inflation rate is running somewhere between 42 and 99 percent. Protests a year ago, triggered by a rise in fuel prices, led to massive street demonstrations calling for an end to the regime.

The regime’s response to its economic and political crises has been to up the stakes. It wagers that it can provoke a nuclear crisis and then stampede the new administration into giving up its immense economic leverage even before meaningful negotiations begin. Once the main sanctions are lifted, Tehran can concede things it never had a right to withdraw, such as U.N. access to its nuclear facilities under the terms of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, while haggling for things it shouldn’t be allowed to get, such as the lifting of sanctions on an Iranian airline that supports the regime’s proxies.

But Tehran’s escalation is also a bluff. There’s a limit to how far it can go in provoking a nuclear crisis with the United States without risking a confrontation with an enemy that is much closer to home.

In the last six months, explosions in Iran have destroyed large parts of a centrifuge manufacturing facility in Natanz, a secretive military installation at Parchin, a power plant in Isfahan, a missile facility in Khojir and an underground military installation in Tehran, among other places. Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, Al Qaeda’s second-highest leader, was gunned down in August in the streets of Tehran. As for Fakhrizadeh, he was not the first Iranian nuclear scientist to meet a violent end, and probably won’t be the last.

Nobody has taken responsibility for these attacks, but nobody is in much doubt about their source, either. They reveal an astonishing degree of penetration of the Iranian security complex. If Tehran tries to race toward nuclear breakout, it knows it will encounter a determined and effective challenge. There’s a limit to how far the regime can go with its provocations before those provocations become dangerous to the regime itself.

In short, Tehran’s negotiating position is weak and its options for escalation are limited. (Even its apparent attack last year on Saudi Arabia’s oil installations, while technically impressive, did little permanent damage to the kingdom while accelerating the recent Arab-Israeli rapprochement.) If disputed rumors of the 81-year-old Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei’s ill health prove true, the country would experience its first transfer of real authority since 1989, another tumultuous event for an already unpopular regime.

Contrast this with the Biden administration, which will come into office holding four powerful cards — assuming it chooses to play them. First, it can credibly outsource effective deterrence to Israel without having to bear the immediate risks. Second, it can leverage the military, economic, intelligence and diplomatic resources of an increasingly united Israeli-Arab front. Third, it doesn’t have to impose new sanctions to cripple Iran’s economy. It merely has to enforce the ones already in place.

Finally, there is growing evidence that Iran has long been in breach of its past commitments by hiding hundreds of tons of nuclear equipment and material that should have been disclosed under the terms of the nuclear deal. The Biden administration and its European partners have a right and responsibility to insist that Tehran provide a full accounting of that material as the entry price of negotiations.

There is a road toward a credible and durable deal with Iran that can muster the kind of regional support and bipartisan buy-in the last one lacked. It’s a deal that forces the regime to choose between a nuclear program or a functioning economy, rather than getting both. A Biden administration that has the patience to see through Tehran’s bluster can be rewarded with a lasting diplomatic achievement that a future administration, unlike the last one, will not easily erase.





No.33 article:
Bob Dylan Sells His Songwriting Catalog in Blockbuster Deal

Universal Music purchased his entire songwriting catalog of more than 600 songs in what may be the biggest acquisition ever of a single act’s publishing rights.

Bob Dylan’s memoir “Chronicles: Volume One” opens in 1962 with the signing of his first music publishing deal — a contract for the copyrights of the budding songwriter’s work. The terms of that agreement, brokered by Lou Levy of Leeds Music Publishing, met young Dylan’s approval.

“Lou had advanced me a hundred dollars against future royalties to sign the paper,” he wrote, “and that was fine with me.” 

Fifty-eight years, more than 600 songs and one Nobel Prize later, the cultural and economic value of Dylan’s songwriting corpus have both grown exponentially.

On Monday, the Universal Music Publishing Group announced that it had signed a landmark deal to purchase Dylan’s entire songwriting catalog — including world-changing classics like “Blowin’ in the Wind,” “The Times They Are A-Changin’” and “Like a Rolling Stone” — in what may be the biggest acquisition ever of the music publishing rights of a single songwriter.

The deal, which covers Dylan’s entire career, from his earliest tunes to his latest album, “Rough and Rowdy Ways,” was struck directly with Dylan, 79, who has long controlled the vast majority of his own songwriting copyrights.

The price was not disclosed, but is estimated at more than $300 million.

“It’s no secret that the art of songwriting is the fundamental key to all great music, nor is it a secret that Bob is one of the very greatest practitioners of that art,” Lucian Grainge, the chief executive of the Universal Music Group, said in a statement.

The deal is the latest and most high-profile in this year’s buzzing market for music catalogs, as artists both young and old have sold their songs, while publishers and investors have raised billions of dollars from both public and private sources to persuade writers to part with their creations.

Last week, Stevie Nicks sold a majority stake in her songwriting catalog for an estimated $80 million to Primary Wave Music, an independent publisher and marketing company. Hipgnosis Songs Fund, a British company that has made a rapid run in the market in just two and a half years, recently disclosed that it had spent about $670 million from March to September acquiring rights in more than 44,000 songs by Blondie, Rick James, Barry Manilow, Chrissie Hynde of the Pretenders and others.

Dylan’s catalog, though, is a special gem, revered in a way that perhaps no other popular musician has achieved. His trove of songs have reshaped folk, rock and pop, and he maintains an almost mythic status as the bard of the current age. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016 “for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.”

Yet to a degree that still surprises and shocks his audience, Dylan has long been aggressive about marketing his music, including pursuing licensing deals to place his songs in television commercials.

In 1994, Dylan let the accounting firm Coopers &amp; Lybrand — predecessor of the current giant PricewaterhouseCoopers — use Richie Havens’s rendition of his 1964 protest anthem “The Times They Are A-Changin’” in a TV spot. Fans, media commentators and even other artists reacted in horror; Time magazine wrote about the controversy with the headline “Just in Case You Hadn’t Heard — The ’60s Are Over.”

The Coopers &amp; Lybrand spot was far from Dylan’s last commercial license: He did a prominent deal for a Victoria’s Secret TV spot in 2004, and later worked with Apple, Cadillac, Pepsi and IBM. Two years ago, he launched a high-end whiskey brand, Heaven’s Door.

Since Universal now controls his work, Dylan will no longer have veto power over how his songs will be used. After the deal was announced early Monday, users on Twitter had a field day with corny puns suggesting how Dylan’s work could be exploited. “Pay Lady Pay,” one user quipped. “Tangled Up in Blue Cross/Blue Shield,” wrote another.

Still, Universal insisted it would be tasteful in its use of Dylan’s work.

Jody Gerson, the chief executive of Universal’s publishing division, said, “To represent the body of work of one of the greatest songwriters of all time — whose cultural importance can’t be overstated — is both a privilege and a responsibility.”

Dylan is the kind of writer whose work music publishers tend to salivate over. Not only has it stood the test of time, but most of his songs were written by Dylan alone and have been frequently covered by other artists — with each use generating royalties. According to Universal, Dylan’s songs have been recorded more than 6,000 times.

Music publishing is the side of the business that deals in the copyrights for songwriting and composition — the lyrics and melodies of songs, in their most fundamental form — which are distinct from those for a recording. Publishers and writers collect royalties and licensing fees any time their work is sold, streamed, broadcast on the radio or used in a movie or commercial. (The recent sale of Taylor Swift’s first six albums covered only that material’s recording rights. Swift signed a separate publishing deal with Universal in February.)

Streaming has helped lift the entire music market — publishers in the United States collected $3.7 billion in 2019, according to the National Music Publishers’ Association — which has drawn new investors attracted to the steady and growing income generated by music rights.

Dylan’s deal includes 100 percent of his rights for all the songs of his catalog, including both the income he receives as a songwriter and his control of each song’s copyright. In exchange for its payment to Dylan, Universal, a division of the French media conglomerate Vivendi, will collect all future income from the songs.

Dylan had no comment on the deal.

Music publishing has been a little-known cornerstone of much of Dylan’s career. The songs he recorded with the Band in 1967, for example, which were widely bootlegged at the time and later collected in Dylan’s 1975 album “The Basement Tapes,” were intended as demos to be shopped to other recording artists.

And much of Dylan’s business empire is operated through the Bob Dylan Music Company, a small office in New York that administers his publishing rights in the United States. (Elsewhere around the world, his catalog has been administered by Sony/ATV, which will continue to do so until the expiration of its contract in a few years.)

The deal includes more than 600 songs spread across a number of publishing companies that Dylan has had over the years. With the exception of his original Leeds Music deal — which included seven songs, among them “Song for Woody” and “Talkin’ New York” — Dylan eventually took full control of all his copyrights from those catalogs; Leeds was sold in 1964 to MCA, which became Universal.

The Universal deal also includes Dylan’s shares in a number of songs he has written with other songwriters. But of the more than 600 titles included in the deal, there are a handful by members of the Band, which Dylan was long associated with — including Robbie Robertson’s song “The Weight” — that Dylan owns the copyright to but did not compose.

But the agreement does not include any of Dylan’s unreleased songs. It also doesn’t cover any work Dylan writes in the future, leaving open the possibility that he could choose to work with another publisher for that material.





No.34 article:
Trading Box Office for Streaming, but Stars Still Want Their Money

If studios are no longer trying to maximize ticket sales, what will that mean for often lucrative pay packages tied to a film’s performance in theaters?

LOS ANGELES — Last month, Warner Bros. quietly approached Hollywood’s two biggest talent agencies, William Morris Endeavor and Creative Artists. The studio wanted to release the much-anticipated “Wonder Woman 1984” simultaneously in theaters and on the streaming service HBO Max on Christmas Day. And they wanted to get the film’s star, Gal Gadot, and director, Patty Jenkins, on board with the plan.

WME, which counts Ms. Gadot as a client, and CAA, which represents Ms. Jenkins, had a lot of questions, but the biggest involved money: How are you going to pay them?

With “Wonder Woman 1984,” agents argued that Ms. Gadot, Ms. Jenkins and the producer Charles Roven (among others) needed to be paid what they most likely would have received had the sequel been released in a traditional manner (an exclusive run in theaters before arriving online) and not during the height of a pandemic. After all, that was what they signed up for, and Warner Bros. and HBO Max, its corporate sibling, wanted their help in promoting the film, did they not?

After a tense negotiation, Warner Bros., which is owned by AT&amp;T, agreed that Ms. Gadot and Ms. Jenkins would each get more than $10 million, according to two people with knowledge of the deals, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private agreements.

The upshot: Warner Bros. kept crucial talent and their powerful representatives on its side.

Last week, when Jason Kilar, WarnerMedia’s chief executive, announced that 17 more Warner Bros. movies would each roll out on HBO Max and in theaters à la “Wonder Woman 1984,” talent was handled in a very different manner. To prevent the news of the 17-movie shift from leaking (and to make the move speedily rather than get mired in the expected blowback), WarnerMedia kept the major agencies and talent management companies in the dark until roughly 90 minutes before issuing a news release. Even some Warner Bros. executives had little warning.

The surprise move left agencies on a war footing. Representatives for major Warner Bros. stars like Denzel Washington, Margot Robbie, Will Smith, Keanu Reeves, Hugh Jackman and Angelina Jolie wanted to know why their clients had been treated in a lesser manner than Ms. Gadot. Talk of a Warner Bros. boycott began circulating inside the Directors Guild of America. A partner at one talent agency spent part of the weekend meeting with litigators. Some people started to angrily refer to the studio as Former Bros.

“For the longest time, Warner Bros. has been known as the best home for talent, and that has been a significant competitive advantage,” Michael Nathanson, a founder of the MoffettNathanson media research firm, said in a phone interview. “With this move, they alienated the very talent they have worked so hard to attract. These aren’t engineers you can just replace.”

The company cited the pandemic as the primary reason for moving the entire 2021 Warner Bros. slate to a hybrid release model, although some films — notably the big-budget “Dune” and “Matrix 4” — are not scheduled to arrive until the fourth quarter, long after vaccines are expected to be deployed.

“Our content is extremely valuable, unless it’s sitting on a shelf not being seen by anyone,” Mr. Kilar said in the news release. “We believe this approach serves our fans, supports exhibitors and filmmakers, and enhances the HBO Max experience, creating value for all.”

The 97-year-old studio, the ancestral home of Humphrey Bogart (“Casablanca”) and Bette Davis (“Now, Voyager”), suddenly finds itself at the uncomfortable center of a Hollywood that is changing at light speed. Even before the pandemic, streaming services like Netflix, Apple TV+ and Amazon Prime Video were upending how movies get seen and their creators are compensated. Now, with theaters struggling because of the coronavirus and the public largely stuck at home, even traditional film companies are being forced to evolve.

It’s not that all actors and directors are against streaming. Plenty of big names are making movies for Netflix. But last week’s move by Warner Bros. raised fundamental financial questions. If old-line studios are no longer trying to maximize the box office for each film but instead shifting to a hybrid model where success is judged partly by ticket sales and partly by the number of streaming subscriptions sold, what does that mean for talent pay packages?

How studios compensate A-list actors, directors, writers and producers is complicated, with contracts negotiated film by film and person by person. But it boils down to two checks. One is guaranteed (a large upfront fee) and one is a gamble: a portion of ticket sales after the studio has recouped its costs.

If a film flops, the second payday never comes. If a film is a hit, as is often the case with superheroes and other fantasy stories, the “back end” pay can add up to wheelbarrows full of cash. That money trickles down through Hollywood’s financial ecosystem to agents, lawyers and managers — funding Pacific Palisades mansions, the latest Porsche and $1,000-per-person Urasawa dinners.

But are the days of the jackpot back-end payoffs now coming to a close?

“Precedent is being set over the value of talent and what kind of transparency is essential to creating equitable partnerships,” Bryan Lourd, a co-chairman of Creative Artists, said in an email. “We will do everything necessary to make sure artists are fairly compensated for the value they are creating, and that their creative and artistic work and rights are protected.”

William Morris Endeavor declined to comment for this article.

It is unclear whether Warner Bros. has a legal requirement to renegotiate back-end arrangements for the 17 movies, as it did with “Wonder Woman 1984” heavyweights. Mr. Kilar said in a phone interview on Friday that, while these changes might be jarring to those who expected one thing for their movie and were now getting something very different, the end goal was to honor talent relationships as the studio had done in the past.

“The most important statement to make is we endeavor to be generous,” he said. “It has served us well for 97 years, and I think it will serve us well going forward.”

WarnerMedia has called its hybrid movie distribution plan a one-year-only strategy. But most people in Hollywood believe it will prove permanent. Mr. Kilar publicly positioned the move as being all about fans, many of whom have chafed at Hollywood’s traditional rollout of movies (first in theaters for an exclusive period, then online for rental and purchase, then on streaming services and television). He’s just going to take that away in 2022?

Each movie Warner Bros. releases next year will appear on HBO Max for only one month before leaving the service. At that point, films will cycle through the usual release “windows,” leaving theaters when interest has run out and heading to iTunes, DVD and points beyond.

Under the WarnerMedia plan, HBO Max will pay Warner Bros. a licensing fee for the 31-day concurrent rights. The fee will be equal to the studio’s portion of ticket sales in the United States. (Ticket sales are generally split 50-50 between studios and theaters.)

Other factors could influence the fee, including the percentage of theaters that are operating. HBO Max and Warner Bros. also agreed to a floor for these fees: $10 million or 25 percent of the film’s net production cost, whichever is greater.

In the eyes of some agents, this is unfair self-dealing. They believe that WarnerMedia had an obligation to maximize value for the profit participants — to make a good-faith effort to see what prices other companies might have paid for the Warner Bros. movies before selling them to itself. The licensing fee does not appear to be connected to the value each movie will create for HBO Max in the form of subscriptions or engagement.

Litigation over self-dealing has been relatively common in Hollywood since the 1990s, when industry consolidation led to media superconglomerates.

WarnerMedia’s aggrieved partners include Legendary Entertainment, two people with knowledge of the matter said. Owned by China’s Dalian Wanda Group, Legendary produced the upcoming “Dune” and “Godzilla vs. Kong” under a deal that required Legendary (and its affiliates) to ultimately shoulder 75 percent of the production costs, with Warner Bros. paying for the balance. Denis Villeneuve’s “Dune,” a science-fiction epic starring Timothée Chalamet and an array of other big names (Zendaya, Jason Mamoa), cost an estimated $165 million. “Godzilla vs. Kong” cost about $155 million.

Not only did Warner Bros. blindside Legendary about the distribution shake-up, but HBO Max immediately began advertising itself using footage from “Dune” and other movies. Stars involved with the much-anticipated project were stunned: Some had agreed to lower their upfront fees (to reduce production costs) in return for expected back-end paydays. In success, “Dune” could spawn multiple sequels.

Legendary was already upset with Warner. In recent months, Netflix had offered the partners a huge sum — at least $250 million — to buy “Godzilla vs. Kong.” Legendary was in favor of the deal, which seemed to optimize the film’s value. But Warner had blocked the Netflix sale.

Legendary declined to comment, as did Warner Bros.





No.35 article:
The Kremlin Is Offering Russians Free Vaccines, but Will They Take Them?

Distrust of the government is so widespread that 59 percent of Russians say they have no intention of getting a shot.

MOSCOW — Aleksei Zakharov, a Moscow economics professor, got the Russian coronavirus vaccine injected into his upper arm over the weekend.

Getting the shot was an easy decision, he said — not because the Russian government said it was safe, but because scores of Russians have shared their experience with it on social media.

“I trust the grass roots collection of information far more, of course, than what the state says, at least before the testing results are available and published in a medical journal,” Mr. Zakharov, 44, said in a telephone interview Monday, already clear of a mild fever — a side-effect of the vaccine. “There’s no safe, no-risk option here. Either you get the vaccine or you risk getting sick.”

Russia made its coronavirus vaccine available for free in recent days to teachers, medical workers and social-service employees younger than 61 in Moscow. But even more than in the West, a lack of trust is hobbling Russia’s rollout of a vaccine: the country’s scientists may well have made great strides in battling the pandemic, but many Russians are not ready to believe it.

That distrust looms large as Russia races to roll out the vaccine while facing the fiercest onslaught of the pandemic yet, with some 500 deaths per day.

The government, in part, has itself to blame. President Vladimir V. Putin proclaimed in August that Russia had become the first country in the world to approve a vaccine for the novel coronavirus, to great fanfare in the state media, even though it had not been tested in a large-scale medical trial. Mr. Putin said the vaccine worked “effectively enough,” given the health emergency, but critics charged that he was dangerously short-circuiting the long established process for developing safe vaccines.

In research afterward, an independent polling institute, the Levada Center, found that the first-in-the-world bombast may have only deepened Russians’ suspicions: in October, 59 percent of respondents said they would not get a coronavirus vaccine, even if it was voluntary and free of charge.

Denis Volkov, Levada’s deputy director, said the typical response on the matter in focus groups was: “On the one hand, we are happy that we are first. But we won’t get it ourselves — let it go through the trials.”

“I’m not planning on getting vaccinated because half the people say it’s not a particularly good idea,” Valery Patrin, a 21-year-old jazz orchestra musician, said in an interview in Moscow on Monday. “There’s no way the vaccine will be tested normally.”

Aleksei A. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader now recuperating in Germany from a nerve-agent attack, himself voiced doubts about the safety of the vaccine on Saturday, calling on top government officials to get vaccinated themselves “under the eye of doctors and journalists.” While many members of the Russian elite — from top business executives and governors, to the editor of the Kremlin’s RT television network — have said they have already gotten the vaccine, Mr. Putin himself has not, though he says one of his daughters has.

The Russian government entity that makes the vaccine now being distributed says its product is 95 percent effective, but outside experts are skeptical of those claims. The name of the vaccine, Sputnik V, suggests the Kremlin views the vaccine as part of its competition with the West: Sputnik was the first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, in 1957, a high point for Moscow during the Cold War.

“Our Sputnik V is unpretentious and reliable, like the Kalashnikov rifle,” the state television host Dmitri Kiselyov said on his show last month, describing the Russian vaccine as superior to the one codeveloped by the American company Pfizer.

At a state-run community clinic in the neighborhood of Golyanovo, on the outskirts of Moscow, on Monday morning, a steady stream of people who had previously signed up for a time slot online presented identification and paperwork showing they worked in education, medicine or social services. Clinic employees checked patients’ medical records for issues like allergies or having received a different vaccine in the last 30 days, then performed a quick checkup.

“I believe that before referring my patients, I need to be a pioneer,” a 38-year-old physician, Lyudmila Soboleva, said as she waited for her shot. “I need to get vaccinated myself.”

A nurse removed a vial of the vaccine, containing five doses, from a special freezer showing a temperature of -36 degrees Fahrenheit, and waited for it to thaw. Along with the half-milliliter shot of adenovirus-based vaccine, the patients received a stamped immunization certificate and a pamphlet explaining that nausea and fatigue were normal side effects.

Before leaving, they signed up to come back for a booster shot in three weeks.

“We have one feeling: pride,” said Maria V. Sokolova, the clinic’s head doctor. “After all, we were the first to develop a vaccine, and now we are the first in the world to begin vaccinations.”

Indeed, Russia is pushing ahead with its vaccination approval and administration one step faster than Western countries, though the rollout has been hobbled by production challenges. On Wednesday, the country’s health minister, Mikhail Murashko, said that more than 100,000 people had already been vaccinated with Sputnik V, including members of the military.

But that is a fraction of the country’s population of 140 million. If Russia’s vaccination effort is to succeed, it appears likely that it will depend on positive word of mouth. Over the summer, the polling firm Ipsos found Russians to be more skeptical of a coronavirus vaccine than the public anywhere else in the 27 countries polled.

Only 27 percent of Russians trust the official data on the coronavirus, according to Levada. Of those who do not, about half believe the numbers are too high, and half believe the numbers are too low. The distrust, Levada’s Mr. Volkov said, is in line with Russians’ overall disenchantment with Mr. Putin after years of economic stagnation.

“There is a disbelief in official information, by default,” Mr. Volkov said.

And yet, there are also many critics of Mr. Putin who still see Russian-made vaccines — three are in Phase 3 trials — as their country’s best path out of the pandemic. Some Russians participating in the trials have been sharing their antibody-test results and side effects in groups on Facebook and the Telegram messaging app.

The volunteers’ general conclusion: the Sputnik V vaccine does appear to coax the body to produce Covid-19 antibodies, mostly without serious side effects. The organizer of one Facebook group of trial volunteers, Vera Smirnova, said she often criticized the government herself but was disappointed that many Russian liberals reflexively rejected the vaccine because of its association with the Kremlin.

“It makes me very sad. The price of this will be human lives,” said Ms. Smirnova, who is 42 and works as a university instructor in Moscow. “I think this is a moment in which, perhaps, we need to try to trust the authorities, because in the coming months we won’t have any other option.”





No.36 article:
Corrections: Dec. 8, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020.

An article on Monday about mass transit spending cuts across the United States described incorrectly the Bay Area Rapid Transit System. It operates heavy rail, like subways. It is not a light-rail system.

An article on Monday about a push by the Trump administration to distribute vaccines by mid-January referred incorrectly to the new restrictions taking effect in much of California. They do not require schools to close.

An article on Monday about Wilmington, Del., misstated the year the city was founded. It was 1638, not 1683.

An article on Sunday about President Trump’s behavior since he lost the election referred incompletely to a letter signed by Republican legislators in Pennsylvania disavowing their own election and calling on Congress to reject the state’s electors for Joseph R. Biden Jr. While the letter initially had 75 signatures, a revised version was issued late Friday evening with only 64 signatures.

An article on Friday about New York Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s new role as the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee referred imprecisely to Representative Cheri Bustos’s status as chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. She did not resign from the post; she announced she would not seek another term.

An article on Sunday about a fire in the East Village in Manhattan, using information from the Fire Department, misstated the address of the vacant building where the fire started. It is 48 East 7th Street, not 47 East 7th Street.

A picture with an article on Saturday about 50 million pounds of paper money that has gone missing from the Bank of England was published in error. The building shown in the photograph was the Royal Exchange, not the Bank of England.

An article on Monday about last week’s N.F.L. news misstated the score by which the Cleveland Browns were outscored by the Tennessee Titans in the second half after taking a 38-7 lead at halftime. It was by 28-3, not 32-3.

An article on Monday about virtual theater productions misstated the location of the college in “Heroes of the Fourth Turning.” It is in Wyoming, not Montana.

An obituary on Saturday about the poet and publisher Naomi Long Madgett misstated the first part of a quotation from her about her poem “Midway.” She said, “I know what’s wrong with it, but I don’t know how to fix it” — not “I don’t know what’s wrong with it.”

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.37 article:
Uber, After Years of Trying, Is Handing Off Its Self-Driving Car Project

Company executives once said having cars that can drive on their own would be a salvation for their business. But the effort turned into a legal and financial headache.

Uber, which spent hundreds of millions of dollars on a self-driving car project that executives once believed was a key to becoming profitable, is handing the autonomous vehicle effort over to a Silicon Valley start-up, the companies said on Monday.

Uber will also invest $400 million in the start-up, called Aurora, so it is essentially paying the company to take over the autonomous car operation, which had become a financial and legal headache. Uber is likely to license whatever technology Aurora manages to create.

The deal amounts to a fire-sale end to a high-profile but star-crossed effort to replace Uber’s human drivers with machines that could drive on their own. It is also indicative of the challenges facing other autonomous vehicle projects, which have received billions in investments from Silicon Valley and automakers but have not produced the fleets of robotic vehicles some thought would be on the streets by now.

Aurora’s chief executive, Chris Urmson, said Aurora’s first product will not be a robot taxi that could help with Uber’s ride-hailing business. Instead, it will likely be a self-driving truck, which Mr. Urmson believes has a better chance of success in the near term because long-haul truck driving on highways is more predictable and does not involve passengers.

In a statement, the Uber chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, said he was looking forward to bringing Aurora technology to market “in the years ahead.” Uber declined to comment further on the agreement.

Among self-driving car projects, Uber’s effort, which led to the death of a pedestrian in Arizona; a lawsuit from Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by the same parent company as Google; and a guilty plea from a former Uber executive accused of stealing intellectual property, was particularly fraught.

It began with an ambitious — but in hindsight fanciful — proposition: Uber’s biggest expense was its drivers. If it could replace the drivers with machines, it could eventually reduce expenses and become profitable, ending years and billions of losses.

Uber began its work on autonomous vehicles around 2015 when it announced a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University’s National Robotics Center. Uber poached 40 engineers and scientists from Carnegie Mellon later, establishing the foundation for its autonomous vehicle unit, called the Uber Advanced Technologies Group, or A.T.G. It came to have 1,200 employees.

In 2016, Uber acquired the autonomous trucking start-up Otto, led by Anthony Levandowski, a former Google engineer. When Google first tested its self-driving car on public roads a decade ago, Mr. Levandowski and Mr. Urmson, who had played a key role in Google’s original self-driving car project before cofounding Aurora, were two of the project’s key engineers. The test was a milestone that eventually led to an investment frenzy.

The acquisition, which valued Otto at $680 million, turned sour when Waymo filed a lawsuit against Uber in early 2017, claiming that Mr. Levandowski had stolen trade secrets from Google. Uber fired Mr. Levandowski, and though the case went to trial, the companies eventually settled. Uber agreed to give Google a stake in the company valued at $72 million.

Federal prosecutors charged Mr. Levandowski with 33 counts of theft and attempted theft of trade secrets from Google. He was sentenced to 18 months in prison earlier this year.

The death of a woman in Tempe, Ariz., in March 2018 — ultimately attributed to driver error and other safety shortcomings — was a grim turning point for Uber and other self-driving car projects. Uber and other companies suspended their road tests. Even after tests resumed, new investments slowed. When Uber finally returned its cars to the road, they continued to fall short of expectations.

In 2018, Uber received a $500 million investment from Toyota to help keep the self-driving unit afloat. The investment marked a shift in Uber’s strategy, signaling that the company no longer wanted to develop its own self-driving car but rather plug its navigation technology into a vehicle made by a traditional manufacturer.

A year later, Toyota added to its investment, partnering with Denso and the SoftBank Vision Fund to pour $1 billion into Uber’s self-driving effort. The deal valued Uber’s A.T.G. at $7.25 billion. The cash infusion bought A.T.G. some time, but its long-term future at Uber remained unclear. The unit was expensive to operate, though Uber maintained it would become profitable by 2021.

In 2019, when a well-known start-up sold itself to Apple, the nascent autonomous vehicle industry began to consolidate.

The coronavirus pandemic presented more problems. It curtailed testing because social-distancing rules prevented companies from keeping multiple drivers in cars to guard against accidents. Some industry veterans admitted that success was further away than they had expected.

The pandemic also put financial strain on Uber, which saw its core ride-hailing business decline as people stopped traveling. Investors had long pressured Mr. Khosrowshahi, to sell the self-driving unit. The demands became more urgent as Uber’s revenue plummeted.

Aurora has its headquarters in Silicon Valley but also runs an office in Pittsburgh, where its chief technology officer, Drew Bagnell, a Carnegie Mellon professor and former Uber employee, works. As well as acquiring Uber’s self-driving technology it is acquiring engineers and support staff, most of whom are based in Pittsburgh. In all, it employs 600 people.

As part of the agreement between the two companies, Uber is taking a 26 percent stake in the start-up and Mr. Khosrowshahi will take a seat on the Aurora board of directors.

“Uber can still have a hand in the game, without putting out the enormous amount of money they were spending with A.T.G., but still have a path to market when this technology is actually deploy-able in several years,” said Elliot Katz, co-founder and chief business officer of Phantom Auto, a start-up that helps companies remotely control autonomous vehicles.

In 2018, Aurora agreed to supply self-driving technology to Volkswagen Group and Hyundai, two of the world’s largest car companies. But both Volkswagen and Hyundai have since embraced other partners amid the wider industry shakeout, and Volkswagen is no longer working with Aurora.

For months, Mr. Urmson has said that his start-up’s first product would involve long-haul trucking. The Uber deal, he said, will not change that.

“If you are a passenger in the back of a vehicle and the driver is too cautious, that can be frustrating, and if they are not cautious enough, that’s scary,” he said. “If you are a roll of toilet paper in the back of a truck, that is a different matter.”





No.38 article:
The Oracle Is Speaking Again. Who Will Listen This Time?

The pressing style Ralf Rangnick once preached to a skeptical German audience is now soccer orthodoxy. As he seeks his next project, he is again peering into the sport’s future.

Ralf Rangnick made an unlikely heretic. His rimless eyeglasses and charcoal sport coat gave him the air of a serious, but benevolent, schoolmaster. Standing in front of a live studio audience, he looked just a little uneasy. He seemed to take comfort in the familiarity of his only prop: a tactics board dotted with pale magnets.

It was, by some distance, the biggest platform Rangnick — then 40 — had ever had. He was the coach of modest Ulm, in Germany’s second division. His host, the leonine Michael Steinbrecher, had a far greater profile, and his program, “Das Aktuelle Sportstudio,” was a national institution.

Rangnick’s appearance lasted five minutes or so, but the ideas he elucidated were explosive. Coolly, surgically, he railed against many of the abiding tenets of German soccer. It was not exactly well received. “There was a big reaction,” Rangnick said.

He was derided for his lack of playing career, dismissed as nothing but “book smart.” He was nicknamed, with a sneer, the “football professor.”

Hindsight has been far kinder. That interview took place in the winter of 1998. Looking back, Rangnick appears less a maverick and more an oracle. The approach he laid out on that flimsy tactics board — zonal marking, a back four, fierce and organized pressing of the opposition — has become the bedrock of soccer in the touch-screen age.

There is a reason Rangnick ranks as, quite possibly, the most intriguing free agent on soccer’s coaching market. There are plenty out there who are younger, or who have lifted more trophies, or who could command a higher salary, or who see their names linked to the world’s most prestigious clubs with confidence-inflating regularity. There are very few, though, who can justifiably claim to have had a greater impact on the game than the man widely regarded as the high priest of pressing.

The tendrils of Rangnick’s influence spread far beyond the parvenu clubs — Hoffenheim, Red Bull Salzburg, RB Leipzig — that he has turned into mainstays of either the Bundesliga or the Champions League.

His protégés — the likes of Marco Rose, Adi Hütter, Sebastian Hoeness and Julian Nagelsmann — have embedded his school of thought at teams across the Bundesliga. The dominant style of German soccer now — the one exported beyond the Bundesliga’s borders by the likes of Thomas Tuchel and Ralph Hasenhüttl — is the style Rangnick advocated two decades ago.

Many of the methods he pioneered have traveled even further. Rangnick, for example, was one of the first coaches to abide by the “eight-second rule,” the idea that most goals are scored within a few seconds of winning the ball back. The idea is now part of most coaches’ baseline thinking.

“Five or 10 years ago, you were not afraid of what the other team was doing while you had the ball,” he said. “Now most teams in most leagues have some sort of plan for how they can hurt you when they do not have possession.”

The greatest proof of the triumph of his ideas, though, is in the nature of Liverpool and Bayern Munich, the reigning English, German and European champions. A host of players at both clubs encountered Rangnick at some stage of their development. Bayern’s assistant coach, Danny Röhl, is a Rangnick student. Jürgen Klopp, the Liverpool coach, co-opted much of his thinking at an early stage of his career.

Rangnick considers Klopp to be “the best coach in the world,” one who has taken the beliefs they share onto another plane of excellence. A straight line can be drawn from the ideas Rangnick espoused 22 years ago to the pressing game that has become not only the hallmark of Liverpool and Bayern, but also soccer’s best practice, its dominant orthodoxy. What Rangnick explained to that live studio audience was the game’s future. It just did not know it yet.

Rangnick has been invited back onto “Das Aktuelle Sportstudio” a dozen or so times since his debut. Every appearance now is something of a coup.

Though Germany’s relationship with Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig, the teams with which Rangnick is most intimately associated, remains uneasy, nobody holds his lack of playing career against him anymore. “If you look at the Bundesliga, the vast majority of coaches did not play at the very highest level,” he said.

Despite his vindication, though, he has no great wish to reverse engineer a sense of destiny onto his story. The way he tells it, his rise is pockmarked with coincidences. There was the day, as a player, he won man of the match in a game in which all he did was mark the opposition’s star. “I asked myself,” he said, “what did you actually do today, other than spoil it for him?”

There was the time the amateur team he was coaching was summoned to play a friendly against Valery Lobanovsky’s Dynamo Kyiv. “I was sure I’d made a mistake, that I’d named one player fewer,” Rangnick said. “Because it seemed to me they definitely had more people on the pitch.”

And there was Germany’s decision in the late 1990s to invest heavily in its youth system, combined with its failure on the international stage at the European Championships in 2000, which created the conditions in which his brand of soccer — and coaches without an illustrious background — could thrive.

That interpretation of his own story is significant when it comes to considering the future of the game he has helped to shape. It is possible to read soccer’s history as a battle of ideas, where each strategy that rises to prominence is, sooner or later, first neutralized and then countermanded by a new one.

Or it is also possible to see it — as Rangnick does — less as a tale of conflict between systems and more one of communion between them. As far as he was concerned, he was simply building on the work of the likes of Arrigo Sacchi, the great A.C. Milan manager, as well as Lobanovsky.

What comes next, in his mind, will not overturn the orthodoxy he helped establish, but build on it. He is particularly intrigued by how teams use set pieces. A third of goals come from corners, free kicks and throw-ins, he said. And yet a third of training time is not dedicated to their practice. He does not believe the pressing era is the end of history. It is just another start.

Rangnick watched the triumphs of Liverpool and Bayern over the last two years with a sense of satisfaction. Not simply out of affection for those players and coaches at both clubs whom he counts as friends, but because they demonstrated how far his ideas could go.

“Lionel Messi is the best player in the world,” he said. “But even he is not resistant to the press. Look at what happened against Liverpool and against Bayern: If you play in unison, as a team, then even he had no solutions.” The collective, working correctly, trumps the individual.

To present Rangnick — or Klopp or Bayern Munich’s Hansi Flick, for that matter — as nothing but a preacher of pressing, though, is to misunderstand the nature of the revolution. “It is a very important part of the game as people like me and Jürgen see it,” he said. “But it is only a part of it.”

A friend of Rangnick’s provides the analogy: The pressing is the fruit, the visible product, but the work goes on in the roots. Not just in coaching the players — to teach squads “to find the right decisions in congested situations, and under pressure” — but in every element of the club.

Rangnick transformed the way his teams played — either as a coach or as a technical director — because he transformed the structure behind them. He left Red Bull in the summer, but a much-anticipated move to A.C. Milan never materialized. Wherever he lands next — ideally, he has said, in England or Germany — he will expect to do the same.

At Leipzig, players were expected to arrive at the training facility 90 minutes before a session started so they could undergo saliva and blood tests; within 30 minutes, Rangnick and his staff would know how much the players would train that day, and how hard. They tested for allergies — gluten and lactose — and tailored their players’ diets. They brought in an expert to help teach them how to maximize their sleep.

This data, he said, will be the next frontier, as much as anything on the field. Success and failure in soccer will depend on the quality of information teams have, and the quality of the experts they have appointed to provide it and to decipher it.

Throughout his career, he has not only leaned on analysts, but educated them in what sort of analysis they need to provide. Scouts were trained to know what to look for, to have a clear idea of the sorts of traits in players that worked well in his teams, or the sorts of coaches who might suit them.

“We had a clear profile of the types of coaches we needed, a concrete profile of the type of player we wanted for every position on the pitch,” he said. “If you know exactly what you need, it becomes quite simple.”

There are a handful of clubs he sees, around Europe, that currently meet those criteria for success. One is RB Leipzig. That, perhaps, should be no surprise, given that it is built in Rangnick’s image. He wonders if Paris St.-Germain warrants inclusion. Bayern Munich and Liverpool most definitely do.

It should be no surprise that all of them have German coaches, ones who bear just a little of Rangnick’s imprimatur, ones who see soccer as he does. This, to his mind, is what the future of soccer looks like. He has seen it once. He believes he can see it again.





No.1 article:
‘It Makes Me Angry’: These Are the Jobless in a City Filled With Wealth

More than one in four workers in the West Farms neighborhood is out of work.

They were store clerks, hotel housekeepers, waitresses, cooks, for-hire drivers, security officers and maintenance workers before the coronavirus snatched away their livelihoods. Even before the outbreak, most were barely getting by on meager paychecks and scant savings.

Now their hopes for better lives are slipping away as they fall behind on rent, ration food and rack up credit card debt. Unemployment in this poor and largely Latino enclave of 19,000 in the Bronx was in double digits before the outbreak.

It has gotten far worse.

With an unemployment rate of 26 percent in September, West Farms has become an epicenter of New York’s economic crisis, one of the hardest hit urban communities in the country and emblematic of the pandemic’s uneven toll.

Though no corner of the city has escaped the fallout, the mass job losses have been concentrated in mostly Black and Latino pockets outside Manhattan that have long lagged economically behind the rest of the city. Communities like West Farms have also suffered disproportionately from the coronavirus itself, with higher rates of people becoming ill.

Meliza Mercedes, 26, was scouring apartment listings before the outbreak, hoping to finally give her 3-year-old daughter, Aubrey, a home of her own. A couple of times, she spotted a nice two-bedroom apartment in the Bronx for under $2,000 a month.

Ms. Mercedes, who stays with her mother in West Farms, had saved about $3,000 by living frugally. She rarely went out and almost never bought herself new clothes. But then came the pandemic, which closed nonessential businesses in March. She lost her job as a store detective at Macy’s in Herald Square and her $550 weekly paycheck. Her savings were soon gone, too.

“I cry about it because I’ve been trying to get my own place,” she said.

Similar stories of hardship and loss are repeated countless times across West Farms. At the corner bodega where neighbors talk about how there is no work and no way to pay the bills. At the local elementary school, Public School 67, which now doubles as a food pantry, giving out 400 grab-and-go meals with sandwiches and fruit every day.

Amanda Adedokun, a single mother, lost her babysitting jobs and can no longer support her own children. Eddie Suárez is a commercial landlord who built a storefront nearly three decades ago, but with a tenant missing rent payments, he struggles to pay his own bills. And Yalikhan Traore, a West African immigrant who worked in a beauty supply store, had to reinvent herself as a delivery driver to adapt to the new pandemic reality.

New York City’s economic crisis is among the worst in the nation, with unemployment at 13.2 percent in October, nearly double the national rate. But within the city, the pain varies vastly. Manhattan’s unemployment rate is 10.3 percent, but in the Bronx, the city’s poorest borough, it is 17.5 percent — the highest in the state.

In West Farms, the unemployment rate soared from 11 percent in February to 38 percent in June, before dropping to 26 percent in September, according to a statistical model developed by two analysts, Yair Ghitza and Mark Steitz.

Across the neighborhood, stores have fewer customers and sales. One dry cleaner took out a $75,000 loan to stay in business. A Catholic school that educated children for more than a century closed after many families could no longer afford tuition.

In contrast, some of the city’s most affluent and largely white neighborhoods in Manhattan have fared far better. The unemployment rate on the Upper East Side was 5 percent in September, up from 1 percent in February, according to the latest data from the statistical model. On the Upper West Side, it was 6 percent, up from 2 percent.

Poor workers, including many Black and Latino people, have been hurt much worse during the pandemic than by past recessions, including the 2008 financial crisis, said James Parrott, an economist with the Center for New York City Affairs at The New School.

He said the pandemic had triggered many more layoffs among lower-paid workers, while far fewer higher-paid workers — including those in finance, technology and professional services, who tend to be mostly white — have lost jobs or benefits.

“It’s another dimension of the extreme differences in economic well-being in New York,” Mr. Parrott said.

West Farms gets its name from the English farmers who settled this area along the Bronx River in the mid-1600s, said Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx borough historian. It later grew into a village with teachers, dressmakers, and grocers, many of whom wanted to escape Manhattan crowding. Factories followed as the river became a bustling industrial waterway.

Apartment houses spread across West Farms in the 1900s after a subway station — the West Farms Square-East Tremont Avenue stop on the 2 and 5 lines — was built. The area was the backdrop for one of the city’s worst tragedies in 1990, when 87 people died in a fire set at the Happy Land Social Club.

West Farms lies just south of the Bronx Zoo — zebras can be spotted from some apartment windows. Today, its long history is reflected in the jumble of tidy single-family homes and rowhouses, squat brick buildings and affordable housing towers.

Ms. Mercedes moved to West Farms with her family from a homeless shelter in the Bronx in 2008. The youngest of six children of immigrants from the Dominican Republic, she later dropped out of high school when she was 17. Her first job was store cashier, followed by stints at a storefront tax service and two pharmacies.

Ms. Mercedes said she always wanted to work in law enforcement and was thrilled to be hired as a Macy’s security guard in July 2019. She was promoted four months later to store detective. She once spotted four shoplifters in a single day, she recalled, and was bitten or bruised trying to stop some of them. For her efforts, she was recognized as detective of the month.

“Everything was going well until the pandemic hit,” she said.

So well that Ms. Mercedes allowed herself a few splurges. She got her nails done twice a month, and treated Aubrey to outings at Chuck E. Cheese. They took mother-daughter trips to Target and Dollar Tree, where Aubrey picked out sticker books or a toy from “Trolls,” her favorite movie.

The pandemic ended all that. For an older sister’s birthday dinner, Ms. Mercedes could only afford to get the cheapest thing on the menu, fried chicken with rice and beans.

“It was driving me crazy not to go back to work,” said Ms. Mercedes, who did not look for another job because she believed she would return to work at Macy’s.

When the store reopened in June, she received an email — it was addressed “Dear colleague” — that said, “Regretfully, we are unable to continue your employment at this time.” She received a severance check of $1,500.

Julie Strider, a Macy’s spokeswoman, declined to comment on Ms. Mercedes, but cited necessary reductions as a result of the pandemic.

“These are always hard decisions to make as they impact many of our valued colleagues,” she said.

Ms. Mercedes said she had applied for more than two dozen jobs. “It’s a very scary situation,” she said.

Few in West Farms have a financial safety net. The median annual household income is $23,329, compared with $38,000 in the Bronx, according to an analysis of census data by Social Explorer, a research company. Citywide, the median income is $61,000, nearly three times higher.

Jose Allende starts pounding the sidewalks in West Farms at 7 a.m., hoping to find someone who needs a hand with construction. Mr. Allende wears paint-splattered jeans and boots to show that he is ready to work, though he has gotten few takers.

Mr. Allende said he was laid off from his job as a handyman for a nearby residential building just before the pandemic. He also used to supplement his income with handyman gigs in Queens and Brooklyn. But he said he no longer feels safe riding the subway or bus since he has no health insurance or savings and cannot afford to get sick.

“I lost sleep trying to think of how to pay the bills,” said Mr. Allende, 50, who moved to West Farms a decade ago from Puerto Rico.

In recent years, a construction boom has brought an influx of affordable housing and newcomers to West Farms. About 74 percent of West Farms residents are Latino, and 23 percent Black, according to the census analysis.

Mr. Suárez, 72, a former elementary schoolteacher from Harlem, has far deeper roots in the neighborhood. He took a chance on West Farms in 1992, when the area was far less safe, and decided to build a no-frills storefront on a vacant lot. Last year, in a sign of the neighborhood’s upswing, he was offered $1 million for the property by an investor, he said, but turned it down.

He leased space to a laundromat and a botanica, and in the back, created a youth center. “We went through a period of rebuilding in the Bronx,” Mr. Suárez said.

“Things aren’t looking too good right now,” he added.

West Farms is part of the 10460 ZIP code, which had a higher rate of confirmed coronavirus cases than the city’s overall rate of 3,276 cases per 100,000 residents in mid-November, according to city data.

The Bronx has the highest rates of total coronavirus hospitalizations and deaths of any borough.

Mr. Suárez said that both businesses in his building are open, but the botanica is struggling and behind on the rent. “All the businesses in the neighborhood have suffered,” said Mr. Suárez, who is himself having a hard time paying bills without the rent money.

Another small commercial landlord, Eduardo Rodríguez, said his tenant, a business service center, left without paying six months of rent, more than $16,000. “Even if the tenants don’t pay, I still have to pay the bank,” said Mr. Rodríguez. “So I drew from my savings and was left with nothing.”

Many West Farms landlords and business owners said they are simply trying to hold on.

Raymond Cabrera, who owns a dry cleaning store, said he has only a couple of customers a day. “I think they don’t come because they don’t go to work, weddings, church, parties,” he said.

Mr. Cabrera, 60, said he used a $75,000 emergency federal loan for small businesses to cover the $2,000 monthly rent for his storefront. Repaying the loan would take 30 years.

At El Nuevo Valle 2 Restaurant, the lunch crowd has largely disappeared. “It’s not even a shred of what it used to be like,” said María Tejada, 55, a waitress in a mask at the counter.

A few minutes later, Ms. Tejada wagged her finger at a customer. “You owe me one dollar, OK? Next time.”

“People want you to give them food, they say they don’t have the money,” she said.

One neighborhood institution did not make it. St. Thomas Aquinas, the local parochial school, closed in July. Parents who lost jobs could no longer afford tuition. And with churches shut down for months because of the pandemic, there were fewer donations, which are used in part to support schools.

“It’s really sad to see that a school that made me who I am is closed down now,” said Stephanie Quiñones, 34, who attended St. Thomas Aquinas. “To think that it stayed open over a 100 years, and to close it just like that.”

When Ms. Traore was laid off from a beauty supply shop in March, she didn’t even have money to spare for the laundromat. So she started washing her clothes in the bathtub.

She pooled her food money with a roommate, and stocked up on rice, beans and eggs from a West African grocery. She could no longer pay her $600 share of the rent.

“Everything has a cost in New York,” said Ms. Traore, 35, who immigrated from Guinea three years ago. “If you have no income, it’s hard, it’s really hard, especially if you have no savings.”

Ms. Traore learned about unemployment benefits from a friend. She applied right away, but heard nothing for weeks. “I kept checking every day, two or three times,” she said. “I found that was a full-time job calling the unemployment office.”

Unemployment benefits have been a lifeline for many West Farms workers. Some earned as much, if not more, than they did at their jobs with the federal pandemic supplement, which added $600 a week to state benefits, and were able to pay bills.

But the layoffs overwhelmed New York’s unemployment system. And when the federal supplement ended in July, the remaining state benefit — capped at $504 a week — was not enough for most people.

Ms. Traore started to panic after weeks of waiting for benefits. She joined a Facebook group where workers had enlisted elected officials for help. She emailed State Senator Luis R. Sepúlveda, whose district includes West Farms, for assistance.

With Mr. Sepúlveda’s office pushing her case, Ms. Traore’s benefits — $700 a week after taxes, including the federal supplement — were approved.

Mr. Sepúlveda has received more than 500 requests for help with unemployment benefits — so many that his office set up a database to track cases.

“It makes me angry because in the wealthiest city in the world, it’s inexcusable to have such a high rate of unemployment in one area,” Mr. Sepúlveda said.

As the public health crisis eased, New York restarted its economy. Stores and businesses reopened and started calling some of their workers back.

Ms. Traore was one of the lucky ones in West Farms. She started in June as a driver delivering packages, benefiting from the surge in online shopping during the pandemic. She earns $17 an hour, or $2 more than her minimum-wage job at the beauty store.

Ms. Traore said she liked bringing essential supplies and medications to people who cannot go out. “I’m doing what I can right now to help people,” she said.

Ms. Mercedes also has reason to hope. After The New York Times asked Macy’s about her job status, she said the company recently offered her a position at one of its Brooklyn stores.

Even as some people in West Farms are finding their footing, many others are not.

Ms. Adedokun, 45, used to earn $400 a week babysitting for two families in West Farms before the pandemic. Then one parent began working remotely for a law firm, and another was laid off by a hotel. With no babysitting money, Ms. Adedokun has run up $7,000 in credit card debt.

Ms. Adedokun, who lives in a subsidized apartment with her son, 17, and daughter, 8, said they liked to celebrate her daughter’s birthday at a water park. This year, all they could afford was pizza.

To make herself feel better, she said, she gets dressed in a blouse and jeans and dabs on makeup just to go sit on a bench outside her apartment.

“It’s helping me mentally,” she said. “If I stay in and look a mess, I feel like a mess.”





No.2 article:
Trump Administration Passed on Chance to Secure More of Pfizer Vaccine

The pharmaceutical company offered the government a chance to lock in additional supplies before its vaccine was proved effective in clinical trials.

WASHINGTON — Before Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine was proved highly successful in clinical trials last month, the company offered the Trump administration the chance to lock in supplies beyond the 100 million doses the pharmaceutical maker agreed to sell the government as part of a $1.95 billion deal over the summer.

But the administration, according to people familiar with the talks, never made the deal, a choice that now raises questions about whether the United States allowed other countries to take its place in line.

While two vaccines, including Pfizer’s, have proved to be highly effective against Covid-19, and a third also appears at least moderately effective, supplies are shaping up to be scarce in the coming months as infections, hospitalizations and deaths surge to new highs. And while Pfizer is now negotiating with the administration to provide more of its vaccine, people familiar with the talks say the company cannot guarantee that it will be able to deliver more than the initial 100 million doses — enough to inoculate 50 million people since its vaccine requires two shots — before perhaps next June.

After it signed its federal contract in late July, Pfizer went on to seal deals with other governments, including the European Union, which last month finalized an agreement to acquire 200 million doses from Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech. On Tuesday, Britain will begin inoculating its population with the vaccine.

President Trump has hailed the development of the vaccine as a victory for his administration, even though Pfizer, unlike the developer of the other most promising vaccine, Moderna, took no upfront money from the government’s Operation Warp Speed development program.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump is holding a White House event to promote the program’s role and plans to issue an executive order that applies his “America First” philosophy to the pandemic by proclaiming that other nations will not get the U.S. supplies of its vaccine until Americans have been inoculated.

The executive order by itself appears to have no real teeth and does not expand the U.S. supply of doses, according to a description of the order on Monday by senior administration officials. But it provides Mr. Trump with a talking point to rebut any criticism about the limited initial supply of the vaccine.

The order is being issued “to ensure that the United States government prioritizes getting the vaccine to American citizens before sending it to other nations,” according to a draft statement. The decision by the White House to issue the executive order was reported by Fox News.

Since the beginning of the vaccine development efforts early this year, some experts have been concerned that nationalism could complicate efforts to distribute the vaccine equitably around the world. Until now the United States has declined to participate in international efforts to supply low-income countries with vaccines.

Asked if the Trump administration had missed a crucial chance to snap up more doses for Americans, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services said, “We are confident that we will have 100 million doses of Pfizer’s vaccine as agreed to in our contract, and beyond that, we have five other vaccine candidates, including 100 million doses on the way from Moderna.”

The federal contract signed in July called for Pfizer to deliver 100 million doses by March at a cost of $19.50 a dose — if its vaccine worked. It gave the government the option to request 100 million to 500 million additional doses. It was one of six contracts that the Trump administration signed with vaccine makers in a strategy intended to hedge its bets and maximize the chances of success.

Accounts differ over the timing of the discussions between Pfizer and federal officials about locking in extra doses. Several people said that during late summer or early fall, Pfizer officials repeatedly warned the Trump administration that demand could vastly outstrip supply and urged it to pre-order more doses, but were turned down.

One senior administration official, who spoke to reporters on Monday on the condition of anonymity, said that any company offering hundreds of millions of doses before it had proof its vaccine worked “was just not going to get the government’s money.”

Another person familiar with the negotiations said talks about possible additional doses began in early October. Michael Pratt, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, declined to comment on the discussions, but said that “an important part of any negotiation is having established timelines for delivery and production amounts.”

In a statement, Pfizer, an American company with headquarters in New York, said that “any additional doses beyond the 100 million are subject to a separate and mutually acceptable agreement,” and that “the company is not able to comment on any confidential discussions that may be taking place with the U.S. government.”

So far, only Pfizer has won emergency approval from a Western government. British regulators authorized it less than a week ago, after late-stage clinical trial results showed the vaccine was about 95 percent effective. The Food and Drug Administration is expected to follow suit in the United States as early as this weekend.

The agency may also soon approve another vaccine developed by Moderna, a small firm based in Cambridge, Mass. But doses supplied by Pfizer and Moderna will initially be extremely scarce — enough to vaccinate about 22.5 million people before the end of the year — and federal officials have said vaccines will not be widely available to Americans until well into next year, even as the daily death toll continues to climb with more than 280,000 lives lost to date.

Originally, the White House cast Tuesday’s vaccine event as a kind of a victory lap for Mr. Trump. The president has repeatedly noted that his administration threw the might of the federal government behind vaccine development, a farsighted move that contrasted with its now nearly yearlong failure to curb the pandemic’s spread.

But some high-profile players will not be there. Representatives for Moderna and Pfizer said the company executives did not plan to attend. A senior administration official said on Monday that the companies were not included because the event would also include a top regulator from the F.D.A., Dr. Peter Marks, who is reviewing their vaccine applications.

Despite its “America First” theme, a major component of the executive order directs federal agencies to develop a policy for eventually selling or donating any additional doses to other countries.

“Once we’ve ensured the ability to meet the needs of the American people, it would then be in the interest of the United States to facilitate international access to a Covid vaccine,” a senior administration official told reporters on Monday.

The bulk of the global supply of vaccines has been claimed by wealthy countries like the United States, Canada, Britain and countries in Europe, leading to criticism that people in low- and middle-income countries will be left behind. The United States, for example, has declined to participate in a global initiative, called Covax, that is meant to make a vaccine available globally.

The federal government settled on 100 million doses from Pfizer in part because it was supporting a portfolio of other candidates, and because it was uncertain how well the company’s vaccine would perform in late-stage clinical trials, federal officials said. 

Pfizer has struggled to meet initial expectations. This summer, the company predicted that it would have 100 million doses by the end of the year, but in November, it said manufacturing challenges forced the company to scale that back to 50 million. Vaccine manufacturing is notoriously unpredictable, and any number of factors — from shortages of raw ingredients to contaminated batches — could cause further setbacks.

As negotiations continue for additional doses, Pfizer is in a strategically important position, given that it is one of only two companies with applications pending in the United States for emergency authorization. If other vaccines prove to be promising, Pfizer could lose its leverage to dictate the terms of its agreements with the federal government.

The United States could use the Defense Production Act to compel Pfizer to prioritize the federal government in its domestic factories. But Pfizer and BioNTech have a duplicate production line in Europe, limiting the United States’ ability to control Pfizer’s global supply. Forcing Pfizer to serve the United States first could also be diplomatically delicate, given the company’s deals with other governments.

Warp Speed officials and Pfizer are still in regular contact, and more commitments to Pfizer and Moderna could be made in the coming weeks and months, one official said. But by January, a new administration will most likely play a significant role in how much more to invest in Pfizer before it could receive a full license of its vaccine from the F.D.A., when investments may shift to the private market.

But while both Pfizer and Moderna appear to have achieved success beyond what researchers even hoped, some of the other vaccine makers fell behind. Top federal health officials and outside experts have questioned the clinical trial data presented by AstraZeneca, a British-based company that is working with University of Oxford researchers.

Novavax, another vaccine maker that received huge support from the Trump administration, has delayed the start of its Phase 3 clinical trial in the United States in part because of setbacks in manufacturing enough doses for its trial. It has now said that it plans to start this month.

Johnson &amp; Johnson has said it could report early results of its vaccine trial by January, and another Operation Warp Speed participant, Sanofi, has said it plans to start its late-stage vaccine trial before the end of the year.

Unlike other vaccine makers, Pfizer spurned federal subsidies for developing and manufacturing, shouldering the financial risk of the vaccine project itself. In a recent interview with The New York Times, the company’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Bourla, said he worried that government oversight would slow his firm’s work, not accelerate it. And he feared federal funding would come with strings attached. That has left Warp Speed officials with a less complete week-to-week understanding of the company’s manufacturing.





No.3 article:
As His Term Ends, Trump Faces More Questions on Payments to His Hotel

A civil case being pursued by the attorney general for the District of Columbia has brought renewed attention to what limits there should be on a president’s ability to profit from the office.

WASHINGTON — It was a month before Donald J. Trump’s inauguration, and one of his aides had a delicate question: Wasn’t there going to be a backlash when it became known that the inauguration had spent donors’ money at Mr. Trump’s hotel in Washington, even though other places would cost much less or even be free?

“These are events in P.E.’s honor at his hotel, and one of them is with and for family and close friends,” Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, then an event planner for Mr. Trump, wrote in an email to a colleague in December 2016, referring to Mr. Trump as the president-elect and saying she raised the issue to “express my concern.”

As Mr. Trump’s presidency comes to a close, expenditures like those are receiving renewed legal scrutiny in the form of a civil case being pursued by the attorney general for the District of Columbia.

At the heart of the case is a question — whether Mr. Trump and his family have profited from his public role, sometimes at the expense of taxpayers, competitors and donors — that has been a persistent theme of his tenure in the White House.

More than 200 companies, special-interest groups and foreign governments patronized Mr. Trump’s properties during his presidency while reaping benefits from him and his administration. Sixty of them spent $12 million at his properties during the first two years he was in office.

The Trump family business has received millions of dollars in payments by the Secret Service, the State Department and the United States military to Trump properties around the country and the world. The president has visited his properties on at least 417 days since taking office, at times with world leaders. And he and his affiliated political committees spent more than $6.5 million in campaign funds at his hotels and other businesses since 2017, including a million-dollar final burst in the weeks before the election last month.

In the lawsuit now moving forward, Attorney General Karl A. Racine of the District of Columbia is arguing that Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee illegally overpaid his family business by as much as $1.1 million for events held at the Trump International Hotel in the city in January 2017. Ivanka Trump was deposed in the case last week.

The lawsuit asks the court to order the inauguration to recover the $1 million paid to the Trump hotel and to redirect it to a “proper public purpose” such as “another nonprofit entity dedicated to promoting civic engagement of the citizens of the United States.”

Questions about spending, influence and lobbying around the 2017 inaugural have also drawn scrutiny from federal prosecutors from two different offices in New York, with charges filed against at least one donor.

But for all the attention focused on the issue, Mr. Trump is set to leave office without a clear resolution of what limits there should be on a president’s ability to profit from his public role.

Lawsuits brought by nonprofit groups and attorneys general in Washington and Maryland claiming that Mr. Trump had violated the so-called emoluments clause of the Constitution were never resolved during his term and now face potential dismissal once he is out of power.

“It is more than just frustrating,” said Laurence H. Tribe, a constitutional law professor at Harvard, who has been involved in the emoluments litigation. “The most serious questions about the abuse of presidential power and the use of the presidency as a center of personal gain and profit remain unresolved. The wheels of justice clearly ground more slowly than some would have hoped.”

The issue played out especially visibly at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, which opened in late October 2016, two weeks before Mr. Trump was elected.

The hotel became a focal point for lobbyists, White House aides, Republicans in Congress and hundreds of others who sought a way to impress Mr. Trump, even though tax records obtained by The New York Times show that the property continued to lose money through at least 2018.

The Trump family had tried to sell its lease at the hotel last year before reversing course when the coronavirus pandemic hit. With revenue sure to have declined this year, Mr. Trump will have to decide whether to put the property back up for sale after he leaves office, or perhaps hope its value will increase if he runs again.

“Fifty percent of the people still will not go into the hotel,” said William W. Moyer, a hotel broker, noting that many potential customers who were not supporters of Mr. Trump avoided the property. “And the other 50 percent wanted to go there. You are not going to turn on or off people’s loyalties like a light switch.”

The case Mr. Racine is pursuing is moving ahead after he spent several years collecting evidence about the arrangements between the presidential inaugural committee and the hotel.

Mr. Trump’s inauguration was unlike any other in American history: He raised more than $107 million, twice the previous record, as corporate donors poured tens of millions of dollars into the inaugural committee. Spending also took place at a record rate.

At the Trump hotel, the inaugural committee and guests attending the inauguration were already planning to fill most of the 263 rooms, which Mr. Racine argued meant that ballroom space would typically be offered for free or at least at a major discount.

But when the hotel initially asked the inaugural committee to pay $450,000 a day to rent the ballrooms and other common spaces, it provoked immediate questions from both Ms. Wolkoff, who has since broken with the Trump family, and Rick Gates, then the inaugural committee’s deputy chairman, who would go on to plead guilty to charges stemming from the special counsel’s investigation.

“First, the cost itself seems quite high compared to other property buyouts for the week,” Mr. Gates wrote in an email to Ivanka Trump 38 days before the inauguration. “Second, I am a bit worried about the optics of P.I.C. paying Trump Hotel a high rent fee and the media making a big story out of it,” he added, referring to the presidential inaugural committee.

Ms. Trump wrote to Mickael C. Damelincourt, the hotel’s general manager, and asked him to call Mr. Gates to negotiate a better deal for the inaugural committee. “It should be a fair market rate,” Ms. Trump said in a follow-up email, which soon led to a new offer of $175,000 per day.

Still Ms. Wolkoff raised concerns.

“In my opinion, the max rental fee should be $85,000 per day,” she responded to Mr. Gates and Ms. Trump in an email where she also noted that other properties, such as Union Station, had offered their spaces for the inauguration at no charge.

This series of emails — filed in court documents as part of the lawsuit — is at the heart of the case that Mr. Racine, a Democrat, is pursuing.

The inaugural committee paid $220,000 for rooms at the hotel, including $75,259 to rent out the so-called Trump Townhouse, marketed as an ultraluxurious suite.

On two of the days that the inaugural committee paid the hotel $175,000 to rent the ballroom, it had no events that used it, the lawsuit said. And on a third day when it actually used the ballroom for a luncheon — again paying $175,000 — another nonprofit group had paid just $5,000 to rent the same presidential ballroom space for an inauguration-related event that morning.

The committee also paid the hotel for costs associated with a “friends and family” event for Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. that their father was not expected to attend. The inauguration staff was so uncomfortable sponsoring the gathering that they tried to cancel it, court documents showed. But Mr. Damelincourt objected.

“Rick … just heard that the Friday night reception had been canceled. Is it accurate?” Mr. Damelincourt wrote. “Tough on us if it is as it was a lot of revenue.” The event was then rescheduled and took place the night Mr. Trump was sworn in.

Ivanka Trump was questioned for five hours last week about the matter, in one of a series of depositions that has also included Mr. Damelincourt and Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a major donor to Mr. Trump who was the chairman of the inaugural committee. Ms. Wolkoff will be questioned under oath this week and Mr. Gates this month.

Documents were also subpoenaed from Melania Trump, the first lady, but she has not been called to testify.

After her deposition, Ivanka Trump condemned the inquiry, as did her brother Eric Trump, who oversees operations at the hotel.

“This is a game stemming from a political vendetta,” Eric Trump said in an interview, echoing his sister, who said on Twitter that the case was “another politically motivated demonstration of vindictiveness &amp; waste of taxpayer dollars.”

So far, Judge José M. López at the Superior Court of the District of Columbia has sided with the attorney general, rejecting a motion by the Trump Organization and the inaugural committee to dismiss the case. Judge López has authorized the parties to move ahead with depositions and other so-called discovery until March to prepare for a possible trial.

The civil suit being pursued by Mr. Racine is distinct from two separate cases raising the constitutional issues about the intersection of Mr. Trump’s public role and his businesses. The two cases focused on the Constitution’s emoluments clause will be on shakier ground once he leaves office, lawyers involved in the cases said.

A federal district court judge ruled in one of the emoluments suits in March 2018 that Maryland and the District of Columbia had the right to pursue their cases challenging whether Mr. Trump’s businesses could take payments from other governments. And for the first time, the court defined what an emolument is, accepting the broader definition advocated by Maryland and the District that it represented just about any payment from a foreign government to the president’s businesses instead of a payment made to the president explicitly in exchange for an official action he would then take, as he had argued.

But one of the remedies their lawsuit sought was an order that the president stop accepting these payments. Once he leaves office, that outcome will effectively have been achieved, perhaps undermining the case.

“We are having high-level discussions around the viability, survivability of the matter,” Mr. Racine said about the emoluments case.

Equally unresolved is the future of the Trump hotel in Washington.

The hotel bar is open again after closing in the spring when the virus first peaked. But traffic is still very slow, in part because the hotel is limiting entry to only those with reservations because of virus restrictions.

Zach Everson, who runs an online newsletter that tracks activities at the hotel, said its fate might be determined in part by how much of a power broker Mr. Trump remains.

“Any business that is sustained in some part by people wanting to get in his favor, once you take the official power he had to grant that favor, I am not sure how they can sustain it,” Mr. Everson said. “But with Donald Trump, he has been able to pull a rabbit out of the hat before.”

On Friday, White House-related business was still coming in.

Jason Miller, a Trump campaign aide, showed up at lunchtime without his name on the list. He told a security guard at the hotel entrance that he was there for a meeting with the lawyers Eric Hershmann and Justin Clark, two other aides to Mr. Trump.

For a moment, Mr. Miller was prevented from entering.

“I work for the president,” he told the security guard, before finally being let in.





No.4 article:
Biden Plans to Tap Lloyd Austin, Former Iraq Commander, as Defense Secretary

The retired four-star Army general would make history as the first African-American to lead the Pentagon.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is expected to nominate retired Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, a former commander of the American military effort in Iraq, to be the next secretary of defense, according to two people with knowledge of the selection.

If confirmed by the Senate, General Austin would make history as the first African-American to lead the country’s 1.3 million active-duty troops and the enormous bureaucracy that backs them up.

General Austin, 67, was for years a formidable figure at the Pentagon, and is the only African-American to have headed U.S. Central Command, the military’s marquee combat command, with responsibility for Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria — most of the places where the United States is at war.

General Austin is known as a battlefield commander. But he is less known for his political instincts — and has sometimes stumbled in congressional hearings, including a session in 2015 when he acknowledged, under testy questioning, that the Defense Department’s $500 million program to raise an army of Syrian fighters had gone nowhere.

He was selected over another front-runner, Michèle A. Flournoy, who had served in senior Pentagon policy jobs and mentored a generation of women in national security who had pushed for her appointment as the first female defense secretary.

Mr. Biden, who is meeting with N.A.A.C.P. leaders Tuesday, was facing pressure from the Congressional Black Caucus and other Black officials to name an African-American to run the Defense Department or Justice Department. But he also skipped over Jeh C. Johnson, a former secretary of homeland security and former general counsel at the Pentagon considered by many to be a more politically astute pick for the first Black man to head the Defense Department.

It was unclear Monday night what tipped the scales for General Austin. People close to the transition noted that, during the Obama presidency, Mr. Biden was unhappy with the high profile of the Pentagon, with generals like David H. Petraeus gaining near rock-star status, and the belief that the Pentagon rolled President Barack Obama into increasing troop numbers in Afghanistan.

General Austin’s lower profile, those people suggested, may match with Mr. Biden’s hopes for a more muted Defense Department.

Still, General Austin may face some pushback from lawmakers who feel strongly about civilian control of the military, and do not think a retired general can make the transition. Like Jim Mattis, who was President Trump’s first defense secretary, General Austin would have to get a congressional waiver to serve, since he has been out of the military for only four years and American law requires a seven-year waiting period between active duty and becoming Pentagon chief.

It is not assured that General Austin would get the waiver; Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, had indicated after Mr. Mattis’s confirmation that he would oppose future waivers for the post. But for Mr. Reed to reject the first African-American nominated to be defense secretary, after approving Mr. Mattis, would be notable.

General Austin, who retired as a four-star general in 2016 after 41 years in the military, is respected across the Army, especially among African-American officers and enlisted soldiers, as one of the rare Black men to crack the glass ceiling that has kept the upper ranks of the military largely the domain of white men.

Some 43 percent of active-duty troops are people of color. But the people making crucial decisions are almost entirely white and male.

Supporters say General Austin broke through that barrier thanks to his experience, intellect and the mentorship of a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, who plucked him to direct the staff of the Joint Chiefs’ office.

After that, General Austin continued to rise in the ranks. He was named commander of Central Command by President Barack Obama in 2013.

Shortly after the 2020 election, General Austin took part in an online session that Mr. Biden had with former national security officials. During that meeting, General Austin impressed Mr. Biden, aides said. His selection was reported earlier by Politico.

After retiring, General Austin joined the board of the defense contractor Raytheon Technologies, a fact that garnered criticism Monday night.

“OH COME ON. A General and Raytheon board?” said Danielle Brian, the executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, in a Twitter post. “Possibly the worst of all options. Bad news for civilian control and any real distance from the military-industrial- complex.”

But his supporters point to a long career in combat and command, including some of the most difficult assignments of the post-9/11 era.

General Austin became the top commander of American forces in Iraq in 2010, when the United States still had roughly 50,000 service members there. Much of the attention had moved on to other hot spots in the Middle East, but major questions still existed about the direction of Iraq, including whether any American forces would remain in the country beyond 2011. General Austin and his commanders were convinced that a sizable force of over 5,000 troops needed to remain to help the fledgling Iraqi military. But the commanders on the ground were ultimately overruled by the Obama administration, which pulled out all American forces by the end of 2011.

Years later that decision would be blamed for the Islamic State’s ability to seize wide swaths of the country.

General Austin’s style was far more reserved than some of the officers with marquee names who spent considerable time cultivating their public image and using the news media to maneuver policy fights with the administration.

Despite overseeing the withdrawal of American forces from Iraq after a bloody war, General Austin showed little interest in the public-facing parts of the job. He avoided speaking publicly or with members of the news media, allowing others to take the lead in the messaging as the war came to an end.

Subsequently, as commander of all American forces in the Middle East, General Austin was the principal military architect of the U.S.-led campaign to oust the Islamic State, after the insurgents seized a swath of territory in eastern Syria and northern Iraq the size of Britain, in June 2014.

After first spending several months helping beleaguered Iraqi forces shore up defensive positions outside the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, the United States halted the Islamic State advance elsewhere in the country’s northern third with a campaign of airstrikes to weaken and damage the insurgent ranks.

By the fall of 2015, under General Austin’s leadership, the American-led coalition began preparing a major front in northeastern Syria, aiming to put pressure on Raqqa, the terrorist group’s de facto capital.

Under a war plan drafted by General Austin and his aides, and approved by Mr. Obama, the Pentagon took two major steps. The military, for the first time, directly provided ammunition and some weapons to Syrian opposition forces fighting the Islamic State on the ground. Mr. Obama also endorsed General Austin’s idea for an increased air campaign from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey.

Together, these measures were intended to empower 3,000 to 5,000 Arab fighters who would join more than 20,000 Kurdish combatants in an offensive backed by dozens of coalition warplanes to pressure Raqqa.

This new northern front aimed at weakening the Islamic State by trying to take away the group’s home-field advantage, even as the militants held on to Mosul and Ramadi in Iraq.

In testimony in September 2015 to the Senate Armed Services Committee, General Austin said that over the next six months it would put “a lot more pressure on key areas in Syria, like the city of Raqqa.”

“Because of that access,” General Austin continued, referring to the use of the air base in Turkey, “we’ll have the ability to increase the pace and focus on key places in Syria. So that will certainly shake things in Iraq.”

And over time, General Austin’s strategy did exactly that.

General Austin is a graduate of the United States Military Academy. He and his wife, Charlene, have been married for 40 years.

His elevation would be particularly poignant for Black West Point graduates: He was reared in Thomasville, Ga., the same town that produced Henry O. Flipper, who was born a slave and in 1877 became the first African-American graduate of the academy.





No.5 article:
The Oracle Is Speaking Again. Who Will Listen This Time?

The pressing style Ralf Rangnick once preached to a skeptical German audience is now soccer orthodoxy. As he seeks his next project, he is again peering into the sport’s future.

Ralf Rangnick made an unlikely heretic. His rimless eyeglasses and charcoal sport coat gave him the air of a serious, but benevolent, schoolmaster. Standing in front of a live studio audience, he looked just a little uneasy. He seemed to take comfort in the familiarity of his only prop: a tactics board dotted with pale magnets.

It was, by some distance, the biggest platform Rangnick — then 40 — had ever had. He was the coach of modest Ulm, in Germany’s second division. His host, the leonine Michael Steinbrecher, had a far greater profile, and his program, “Das Aktuelle Sportstudio,” was a national institution.

Rangnick’s appearance lasted five minutes or so, but the ideas he elucidated were explosive. Coolly, surgically, he railed against many of the abiding tenets of German soccer. It was not exactly well received. “There was a big reaction,” Rangnick said.

He was derided for his lack of playing career, dismissed as nothing but “book smart.” He was nicknamed, with a sneer, the “football professor.”

Hindsight has been far kinder. That interview took place in the winter of 1998. Looking back, Rangnick appears less a maverick and more an oracle. The approach he laid out on that flimsy tactics board — zonal marking, a back four, fierce and organized pressing of the opposition — has become the bedrock of soccer in the touch-screen age.

There is a reason Rangnick ranks as, quite possibly, the most intriguing free agent on soccer’s coaching market. There are plenty out there who are younger, or who have lifted more trophies, or who could command a higher salary, or who see their names linked to the world’s most prestigious clubs with confidence-inflating regularity. There are very few, though, who can justifiably claim to have had a greater impact on the game than the man widely regarded as the high priest of pressing.

The tendrils of Rangnick’s influence spread far beyond the parvenu clubs — Hoffenheim, Red Bull Salzburg, RB Leipzig — that he has turned into mainstays of either the Bundesliga or the Champions League.

His protégés — the likes of Marco Rose, Adi Hütter, Sebastian Hoeness and Julian Nagelsmann — have embedded his school of thought at teams across the Bundesliga. The dominant style of German soccer now — the one exported beyond the Bundesliga’s borders by the likes of Thomas Tuchel and Ralph Hasenhüttl — is the style Rangnick advocated two decades ago.

Many of the methods he pioneered have traveled even further. Rangnick, for example, was one of the first coaches to abide by the “eight-second rule,” the idea that most goals are scored within a few seconds of winning the ball back. The idea is now part of most coaches’ baseline thinking.

“Five or 10 years ago, you were not afraid of what the other team was doing while you had the ball,” he said. “Now most teams in most leagues have some sort of plan for how they can hurt you when they do not have possession.”

The greatest proof of the triumph of his ideas, though, is in the nature of Liverpool and Bayern Munich, the reigning English, German and European champions. A host of players at both clubs encountered Rangnick at some stage of their development. Bayern’s assistant coach, Danny Röhl, is a Rangnick student. Jürgen Klopp, the Liverpool coach, co-opted much of his thinking at an early stage of his career.

Rangnick considers Klopp to be “the best coach in the world,” one who has taken the beliefs they share onto another plane of excellence. A straight line can be drawn from the ideas Rangnick espoused 22 years ago to the pressing game that has become not only the hallmark of Liverpool and Bayern, but also soccer’s best practice, its dominant orthodoxy. What Rangnick explained to that live studio audience was the game’s future. It just did not know it yet.

Rangnick has been invited back onto “Das Aktuelle Sportstudio” a dozen or so times since his debut. Every appearance now is something of a coup.

Though Germany’s relationship with Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig, the teams with which Rangnick is most intimately associated, remains uneasy, nobody holds his lack of playing career against him anymore. “If you look at the Bundesliga, the vast majority of coaches did not play at the very highest level,” he said.

Despite his vindication, though, he has no great wish to reverse engineer a sense of destiny onto his story. The way he tells it, his rise is pockmarked with coincidences. There was the day, as a player, he won man of the match in a game in which all he did was mark the opposition’s star. “I asked myself,” he said, “what did you actually do today, other than spoil it for him?”

There was the time the amateur team he was coaching was summoned to play a friendly against Valery Lobanovsky’s Dynamo Kyiv. “I was sure I’d made a mistake, that I’d named one player fewer,” Rangnick said. “Because it seemed to me they definitely had more people on the pitch.”

And there was Germany’s decision in the late 1990s to invest heavily in its youth system, combined with its failure on the international stage at the European Championships in 2000, which created the conditions in which his brand of soccer — and coaches without an illustrious background — could thrive.

That interpretation of his own story is significant when it comes to considering the future of the game he has helped to shape. It is possible to read soccer’s history as a battle of ideas, where each strategy that rises to prominence is, sooner or later, first neutralized and then countermanded by a new one.

Or it is also possible to see it — as Rangnick does — less as a tale of conflict between systems and more one of communion between them. As far as he was concerned, he was simply building on the work of the likes of Arrigo Sacchi, the great A.C. Milan manager, as well as Lobanovsky.

What comes next, in his mind, will not overturn the orthodoxy he helped establish, but build on it. He is particularly intrigued by how teams use set pieces. A third of goals come from corners, free kicks and throw-ins, he said. And yet a third of training time is not dedicated to their practice. He does not believe the pressing era is the end of history. It is just another start.

Rangnick watched the triumphs of Liverpool and Bayern over the last two years with a sense of satisfaction. Not simply out of affection for those players and coaches at both clubs whom he counts as friends, but because they demonstrated how far his ideas could go.

“Lionel Messi is the best player in the world,” he said. “But even he is not resistant to the press. Look at what happened against Liverpool and against Bayern: If you play in unison, as a team, then even he had no solutions.” The collective, working correctly, trumps the individual.

To present Rangnick — or Klopp or Bayern Munich’s Hansi Flick, for that matter — as nothing but a preacher of pressing, though, is to misunderstand the nature of the revolution. “It is a very important part of the game as people like me and Jürgen see it,” he said. “But it is only a part of it.”

A friend of Rangnick’s provides the analogy: The pressing is the fruit, the visible product, but the work goes on in the roots. Not just in coaching the players — to teach squads “to find the right decisions in congested situations, and under pressure” — but in every element of the club.

Rangnick transformed the way his teams played — either as a coach or as a technical director — because he transformed the structure behind them. He left Red Bull in the summer, but a much-anticipated move to A.C. Milan never materialized. Wherever he lands next — ideally, he has said, in England or Germany — he will expect to do the same.

At Leipzig, players were expected to arrive at the training facility 90 minutes before a session started so they could undergo saliva and blood tests; within 30 minutes, Rangnick and his staff would know how much the players would train that day, and how hard. They tested for allergies — gluten and lactose — and tailored their players’ diets. They brought in an expert to help teach them how to maximize their sleep.

This data, he said, will be the next frontier, as much as anything on the field. Success and failure in soccer will depend on the quality of information teams have, and the quality of the experts they have appointed to provide it and to decipher it.

Throughout his career, he has not only leaned on analysts, but educated them in what sort of analysis they need to provide. Scouts were trained to know what to look for, to have a clear idea of the sorts of traits in players that worked well in his teams, or the sorts of coaches who might suit them.

“We had a clear profile of the types of coaches we needed, a concrete profile of the type of player we wanted for every position on the pitch,” he said. “If you know exactly what you need, it becomes quite simple.”

There are a handful of clubs he sees, around Europe, that currently meet those criteria for success. One is RB Leipzig. That, perhaps, should be no surprise, given that it is built in Rangnick’s image. He wonders if Paris St.-Germain warrants inclusion. Bayern Munich and Liverpool most definitely do.

It should be no surprise that all of them have German coaches, ones who bear just a little of Rangnick’s imprimatur, ones who see soccer as he does. This, to his mind, is what the future of soccer looks like. He has seen it once. He believes he can see it again.





No.6 article:
Pat Patterson, a Wrestling Star Who Came Out, Dies at 79

He delighted his fans, especially in villain roles. When he announced in 2014 that he was gay, they remained loyal.

Pat Patterson, the first major wrestling star to announce that he was gay, died on Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 79.

The cause of his death, in a hospital, was liver failure, said Bertrand Hébert, who collaborated with Mr. Patterson on his autobiography, “Accepted: How the First Gay Superstar Changed WWE” (2016).

After decades of working his way up through regional wrestling circuits in Montreal, Boston and San Francisco, Mr. Patterson found fame in the late 1970s, when he joined the World Wrestling Federation, which later became World Wrestling Entertainment. 

In the ring, Mr. Patterson was fond of surprise. Normally cast as a “heel,” the wrestling term for a villain, he attacked opponents at the exact moment a fight began. He slipped off his belt and wielded it like a whip. Digging into his tights, his hand would emerge wearing brass knuckles. His theatrics often drew booing frenzies.

“Whether I was the good guy or bad guy, I always worked best when I was the one leading the dance,” he wrote in his memoir. “The magic of what we do in a wrestling ring follows the same principle as in a good movie when the hero is down. That desperation needs to register with the audience.”

At the height of his career, he was crowned the “intercontinental champion” and headlined matches at Madison Square Garden, perhaps most famously against the wrestler known as Sgt. Slaughter in 1981. Even as he seemed to be winning the fight, Mr. Patterson staggered around the ring, playing up his seemingly grave injuries. As he was being declared the winner, he lay on the mat, acknowledging victory only with a labored raise of his fist.

As his career in the ring slowed in the mid-1980s, he joined the World Wrestling Federation as an executive, putting matches together and working with wrestlers on their shticks. He invented the Royal Rumble, a last-man-standing free-for-all with new competitors entering at regular intervals. That format is still in use today.

A close associate of Vince McMahon, the WWE chairman, Mr. Patterson occasionally re-entered the ring as Mr. McMahon’s bodyguard during Mr. McMahon’s rivalry with the wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austin in the late 1990s.

He announced he was gay in 2014 during an episode of “Legends’ House,” a reality television show on the WWE Network in which retired pro wrestlers were sequestered together.

Even though his friends and some wrestling insiders knew about his sexuality, Mr. Patterson rarely discussed it and had never done so publicly.

“For once in my life, I’m going to be me now,” he said on the show. “I survived all this being gay. I lived with that for 50-some years.”

In 2015, WWE staged a “Pat Patterson Appreciation Night” in Montreal, his hometown. “Pat Patterson,” Mr. McMahon said that night, “was different in an era when different was not cool,” and he mentioned “his life partner, Louie Dondero,” whom Mr. Patterson had been with for 40 years. Alone in the ring, Mr. Patterson sang “My Way,” and the packed arena filled with chants of “Merci, Pat!”

He was born Pierre Clermont in Montreal on Jan. 19, 1941. His father, Gérard Clermont, was a milkman who later went to work for Canadair making airplane parts; his mother, Simone Lupien, was a homemaker. Pierre had four brothers and sisters and every night was relegated — tellingly, he wrote in his memoir — to a pullout bed in a closet, sharing it with a brother.

Pierre began idolizing wrestlers and training to become one at about age 14. Unable to afford tickets to fight nights, he would cadge ticket stubs from audience members at intermission and catch the second half of a show. On other nights he would sneak in by standing where the wrestlers parked their cars and offer to take their bags inside for them.

Pierre fought his first bout under the Anglophone name Pat Patterson in 1958. (He changed his name legally in 2009.) Early in his Canadian career, he recalled, he sometimes traveled to towns “near the end of the known world” and wrestled there for five dollars a night.

When he was 16, he discovered a gay bar. With his first gay sexual experience, he wrote in his memoir, he found two things that had been largely missing from his life: “tenderness and affection.” He wound up coming out to his father, who responded with an epithet and demanded that he move out.

After graduating from his high school in Montreal, École Jean-Baptiste Meilleur, Mr. Patterson found a suitcase in a garbage can and headed for Boston, since he had once introduced himself to a wrestling promoter from there.

Once in Boston, he met Mr. Dondero, and the two remained a couple until Mr. Dondero died of a heart attack in 1998.

Though Mr. Patterson encountered homophobia in professional wrestling, he also found acceptance. Mad Dog Vachon was one of several fellow fighters who made a point of befriending Mr. Dondero and encouraging Mr. Patterson to bring him along when they traveled.

“I never introduced Louie as my boyfriend,” he wrote in his memoir. “It was always ‘my friend Louie.’ I still can’t call him my boyfriend. Somehow that feels wrong. He will always be ‘my friend Louie.’ And to me that’s so much more than a boyfriend.”

He is survived by four siblings: Claudette Clermont-Paquin, Lise Clermont and Michel and Richard Clermont.

Coming out proved to be one of his happiest decisions, Mr. Patterson wrote. And it resulted in an encounter he treasured, in Los Angeles in 2014.

“A FedEx truck slammed on the brakes in the middle of the street as I was walking on the sidewalk,” Mr. Patterson recalled in his memoir. “The driver, who was a big guy, jumped out of his truck and came toward me to tell me he was gay, too. He gave me a big hug, thanked me again, took a picture, jumped right back in his truck and drove off.”





No.7 article:
Armed Mexicans Were Smuggled In to Guard Border Wall, Whistle-Blowers Say

In a complaint unsealed on Friday, whistle-blowers working on President Trump’s wall said that contractors were illegally bringing in Mexican guards to protect construction sites.

WASHINGTON — Two whistle-blowers have accused contractors building President Trump’s border wall of smuggling armed Mexican security teams into the United States to guard construction sites, even building an illegal dirt road to speed the operation, according to court documents unsealed by a federal judge on Friday.

The two employees, who were both contracted to provide security at the sites, accused the company, Sullivan Land Services Co., or S.L.S. — as well as a subcontractor, Ultimate Concrete of El Paso — of hiring workers who were not vetted by the United States government, overcharging for construction costs and making false statements about those actions.

The whistle-blowers said Ultimate Concrete went so far as to build a dirt road to expedite illegal border crossings to sites in San Diego, using construction vehicles to block security cameras. An unnamed supervisor at the Army Corps of Engineers approved the operation, according to a complaint filed in February and released on Friday.

Mr. Trump may have failed to make good on his 2016 promise to make Mexico pay for the wall, but if the accusations prove true, the administration apparently did rely on Mexican workers for the project, potentially at the expense of Americans.

The allegations came to light as data obtained by The New York Times showed that a border wall that Mr. Trump once advertised as “impenetrable” has continued to prove very penetrable. In fact, it has been repeatedly breached by migrants, requiring repairs that the whistle-blowers say were completed by workers who were not authorized by the government to be on the job.

Documents obtained by The Times through a Freedom of Information Act request show that Border Patrol agents have struggled to prevent migrants from breaching the wall, with one portion of the barriers in the Tucson, Ariz., sector breached as recently as September.

Between October 2019 and March 2020, the concrete bollards of the wall were breached more than 320 times in the Border Patrol sectors of San Diego; Tucson; El Centro, Calif.; and Yuma, Ariz., according to the documents. While Mr. Trump has constructed new segments in each of those areas, it is unclear whether all the breaches affected new portions of his wall or dilapidated barriers installed by previous administrations.

The Times could not independently verify the accusations, which were made by a former deputy sheriff in San Diego County and a former F.B.I. special agent providing security for the wall construction. The false claims act complaint was filed in the Southern District of California, allowing the federal government to investigate the allegations while they remained sealed and to decide whether to pursue the case. The Justice Department notified the court last week that it would not intervene in the case, prompting a judge to unseal the allegations. Federal law allows the whistle-blowers to continue to pursue the case “in the name of the United States” or, with the permission of the federal government, to seek a settlement or dismissal of the case.

Liz Rogers, a spokeswoman for S.L.S., said in a statement that the company did not comment on litigation. Jesse Guzman, the president of Ultimate Concrete, said in a phone interview on Monday that he was not aware of the complaint, but he dismissed the accusations.

“Everybody can allege whatever they want to, and that does not make it correct or make it the truth,” he said, adding that it was two security officers who were angry that “something didn’t go their way.”

A spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Greg Davis, said the agency did not comment on litigation. “Lack of comment should not be construed as agreement or stipulation with any of the allegations,” he said.

One of the guards, who served as an on-site security manager for the contractors, told special agents with the F.B.I. that he had discovered through monthly audits of workers at the site in San Diego that many of the personnel working on construction and security were not vetted or approved by Customs and Border Protection.

S.L.S., a primary builder of Mr. Trump’s wall, has been awarded contracts worth more than $1.4 billion for work on multiple parts of the border. With those funds, the company is said to have allowed its subcontractor, Ultimate Concrete, to hire armed Mexicans and facilitate illegal border crossings that the president has worked to shut down.

Ultimate Concrete “constructed a dirt road that would allow access from the Mexican side of the border into the United States,” the whistle-blowers said in the complaint. “This U.C.-constructed road was apparently the route by which the armed Mexican nationals were unlawfully crossing into the United States.”

An S.L.S. project manager then pressured one of the whistle-blowers in July 2019 to not include information about the Mexican security guards in reports required to be submitted to the Army Corps of Engineers.

Border Patrol agents raised concerns that month about those Mexican guards to the security companies that one of the whistle-blowers worked for. When the whistle-blower discussed the concerns about Mexican guards working on the U.S. side of the border with an S.L.S. project manager, the company said the work by the Mexican guards was approved — a claim the whistle-blower rejected.

“What are you going to do about it?” the project manager said to the security officer, who filed the complaint.

About three weeks later, one of the whistle-blowers received a report about a shooting that had taken place between the Mexican security guards and others who crossed the border to steal property. One of the whistle-blowers sent a report on the shooting to the Army Corps.

Army Corps officials responded that they would investigate the episode and that the information was inconsistent with what Ultimate Concrete leaders had reported.

One of the whistle-blowers also said in the complaint that he had interviewed a witness who said the armed Mexican guards were working on the U.S. side of the border. Leaders for both contractors also admitted that they were aware of the Mexican guards working in the United States, with a representative from Ultimate Concrete claiming that he was “paying for the services of the Mexican guards.”

One of the security guards then reached out to the F.B.I. The Washington Post reported earlier that the F.B.I. was investigating the shooting at the construction site in San Diego last year that had wounded two of the Mexican security guards. The Post also reported that migrants had begun cutting through Mr. Trump’s wall in 2019.

The whistle-blowers also said in the complaint that Ultimate Concrete employees had submitted fraudulent invoices to the federal government. One of the whistle-blowers was told by an employee that a member of the company’s leadership, identified in the complaint as U.C. president, was “‘hiding’ the full extent of his profits on the Border Wall project,” in part by submitting false claims for diesel fuel, according to the complaint.

“If they were using a forklift, they would use it only sporadically throughout the day but charge the government for fuel, in sum and substance, ‘as if it was running all the time,’” the complaint said.

The whistle-blowers said in the complaint that at least one unnamed Army Corps supervisor, who later stepped down, was aware of the use of Mexican guards and had an inappropriate relationship with the leadership of Ultimate Concrete, often attending golf outings with “U.C. president.”

One of the whistle-blowers claimed to have told the Army Corps supervisor about concerns with the company, only to be told to “stand down.”

The Justice Department did not respond to requests for comment. Nicholas J. Lewin, a lawyer for one of the whistle-blowers, did not respond to requests for comment. Marc S. Harris, a lawyer for another security officer, declined to comment.

The employees also accused the companies of submitting fraudulent invoices for border wall costs and “hiding” the full profits of the project.





No.8 article:
Uber, After Years of Trying, Is Handing Off Its Self-Driving Car Project

Company executives once said having cars that can drive on their own would be a salvation for their business. But the effort turned into a legal and financial headache.

Uber, which spent hundreds of millions of dollars on a self-driving car project that executives once believed was a key to becoming profitable, is handing the autonomous vehicle effort over to a Silicon Valley start-up, the companies said on Monday.

Uber will also invest $400 million in the start-up, called Aurora, so it is essentially paying the company to take over the autonomous car operation, which had become a financial and legal headache. Uber is likely to license whatever technology Aurora manages to create.

The deal amounts to a fire-sale end to a high-profile but star-crossed effort to replace Uber’s human drivers with machines that could drive on their own. It is also indicative of the challenges facing other autonomous vehicle projects, which have received billions in investments from Silicon Valley and automakers but have not produced the fleets of robotic vehicles some thought would be on the streets by now.

Aurora’s chief executive, Chris Urmson, said Aurora’s first product will not be a robot taxi that could help with Uber’s ride-hailing business. Instead, it will likely be a self-driving truck, which Mr. Urmson believes has a better chance of success in the near term because long-haul truck driving on highways is more predictable and does not involve passengers.

In a statement, the Uber chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, said he was looking forward to bringing Aurora technology to market “in the years ahead.” Uber declined to comment further on the agreement.

Among self-driving car projects, Uber’s effort, which led to the death of a pedestrian in Arizona; a lawsuit from Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by the same parent company as Google; and a guilty plea from a former Uber executive accused of stealing intellectual property, was particularly fraught.

It began with an ambitious — but in hindsight fanciful — proposition: Uber’s biggest expense was its drivers. If it could replace the drivers with machines, it could eventually reduce expenses and become profitable, ending years and billions of losses.

Uber began its work on autonomous vehicles around 2015 when it announced a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University’s National Robotics Center. Uber poached 40 engineers and scientists from Carnegie Mellon later, establishing the foundation for its autonomous vehicle unit, called the Uber Advanced Technologies Group, or A.T.G. It came to have 1,200 employees.

In 2016, Uber acquired the autonomous trucking start-up Otto, led by Anthony Levandowski, a former Google engineer. When Google first tested its self-driving car on public roads a decade ago, Mr. Levandowski and Mr. Urmson, who had played a key role in Google’s original self-driving car project before cofounding Aurora, were two of the project’s key engineers. The test was a milestone that eventually led to an investment frenzy.

The acquisition, which valued Otto at $680 million, turned sour when Waymo filed a lawsuit against Uber in early 2017, claiming that Mr. Levandowski had stolen trade secrets from Google. Uber fired Mr. Levandowski, and though the case went to trial, the companies eventually settled. Uber agreed to give Google a stake in the company valued at $72 million.

Federal prosecutors charged Mr. Levandowski with 33 counts of theft and attempted theft of trade secrets from Google. He was sentenced to 18 months in prison earlier this year.

The death of a woman in Tempe, Ariz., in March 2018 — ultimately attributed to driver error and other safety shortcomings — was a grim turning point for Uber and other self-driving car projects. Uber and other companies suspended their road tests. Even after tests resumed, new investments slowed. When Uber finally returned its cars to the road, they continued to fall short of expectations.

In 2018, Uber received a $500 million investment from Toyota to help keep the self-driving unit afloat. The investment marked a shift in Uber’s strategy, signaling that the company no longer wanted to develop its own self-driving car but rather plug its navigation technology into a vehicle made by a traditional manufacturer.

A year later, Toyota added to its investment, partnering with Denso and the SoftBank Vision Fund to pour $1 billion into Uber’s self-driving effort. The deal valued Uber’s A.T.G. at $7.25 billion. The cash infusion bought A.T.G. some time, but its long-term future at Uber remained unclear. The unit was expensive to operate, though Uber maintained it would become profitable by 2021.

In 2019, when a well-known start-up sold itself to Apple, the nascent autonomous vehicle industry began to consolidate.

The coronavirus pandemic presented more problems. It curtailed testing because social-distancing rules prevented companies from keeping multiple drivers in cars to guard against accidents. Some industry veterans admitted that success was further away than they had expected.

The pandemic also put financial strain on Uber, which saw its core ride-hailing business decline as people stopped traveling. Investors had long pressured Mr. Khosrowshahi, to sell the self-driving unit. The demands became more urgent as Uber’s revenue plummeted.

Aurora has its headquarters in Silicon Valley but also runs an office in Pittsburgh, where its chief technology officer, Drew Bagnell, a Carnegie Mellon professor and former Uber employee, works. As well as acquiring Uber’s self-driving technology it is acquiring engineers and support staff, most of whom are based in Pittsburgh. In all, it employs 600 people.

As part of the agreement between the two companies, Uber is taking a 26 percent stake in the start-up and Mr. Khosrowshahi will take a seat on the Aurora board of directors.

“Uber can still have a hand in the game, without putting out the enormous amount of money they were spending with A.T.G., but still have a path to market when this technology is actually deploy-able in several years,” said Elliot Katz, co-founder and chief business officer of Phantom Auto, a start-up that helps companies remotely control autonomous vehicles.

In 2018, Aurora agreed to supply self-driving technology to Volkswagen Group and Hyundai, two of the world’s largest car companies. But both Volkswagen and Hyundai have since embraced other partners amid the wider industry shakeout, and Volkswagen is no longer working with Aurora.

For months, Mr. Urmson has said that his start-up’s first product would involve long-haul trucking. The Uber deal, he said, will not change that.

“If you are a passenger in the back of a vehicle and the driver is too cautious, that can be frustrating, and if they are not cautious enough, that’s scary,” he said. “If you are a roll of toilet paper in the back of a truck, that is a different matter.”





No.9 article:
MSNBC Names Rashida Jones as President, Succeeding Phil Griffin

Ms. Jones, currently a senior vice president at the network, will become the highest-ranking Black woman in the TV news industry.

MSNBC was already preparing for one momentous presidential transition next year. Now the 24-hour cable channel and home to liberal stars like Rachel Maddow is about to take on a second.

Phil Griffin, the MSNBC president whose left-leaning shows yielded big ratings in the Trump years and minted media brands like “The Rachel Maddow Show” and “Morning Joe,” will depart on Feb. 1 after a 12-year tenure, the network said on Monday.

He is to be succeeded by Rashida Jones, a senior vice president for news at MSNBC and NBC News, who will become the first Black woman to take charge of a major television news network. Ms. Jones, 39, currently oversees daytime news coverage for the network and breaking news and specials for NBC’s broadcast news division.

Her promotion, announced by Cesar Conde, the chairman of NBCUniversal News Group, is another big shake-up in the network’s management ranks. Mr. Conde, who formerly ran Telemundo, took over the news division this year after Andrew Lack departed following a bumpy tenure.

Ms. Jones, who once served as director of live programming for the Weather Channel, joined NBCUniversal seven years ago. MSNBC staff members took notice of what has been a steady ascent: Beginning last year, she was the executive producer for a pair of primary debates that set ratings records for a Democratic presidential contest.

This past April, she was handed oversight of MSNBC’s daytime news coverage, and within three months, she had added weekend news programming to her portfolio. By the fall, Ms. Jones produced two town-hall events with the 2020 presidential candidates and helped supervise preparation for Kristen Welker, the NBC correspondent who moderated the second presidential debate to glowing reviews.

In a memo to employees, Mr. Conde praised Ms. Jones’s “laserlike focus and grace under pressure.” Her new role was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.

Ms. Jones will assume control of a news network that reached ratings highs as a safe space for liberals enraged by President Trump, and is now pondering how to retain those viewers after the chief villain of its prime-time programming leaves office.

She also inherits a slate of network stars, some of whom are deeply loyal to Mr. Griffin, 64, the executive who joined MSNBC at its founding in 1996 and put in place much of the channel’s current lineup.

Besides handing Ms. Maddow her prime-time break in 2008, Mr. Griffin was also known throughout MSNBC as a masterful corporate tactician, surviving numerous shake-ups and even periods of prolonged ratings declines.

In a farewell memo on Monday, Mr. Griffin recalled his more than three decades at NBC, including memories of working with Jane Pauley and Bryant Gumbel at the “Today” show and a late-night reporting trip with Tom Brokaw in Somalia. (Colleagues speak highly of Mr. Griffin’s Brokaw impression.)

A vegetarian and spinning class enthusiast, Mr. Griffin distinguished himself as a boisterous executive with a knack for managing the large egos of television news. But he harbored other pursuits: A die-hard Mets devotee who wore his fandom on his sleeve, Mr. Griffin is also an investor in a sports bar in Manhattan called Bodega 88, which has played host to many an MSNBC holiday party.

Mr. Griffin wrote on Monday that, after Election Day, he told NBC leadership “that the time felt right to hang up my cleats.”

He also invoked less happy times at MSNBC, noting the network in its early days “had trouble breaking through.” He recalled that during a rather fallow ratings period, the former NBC chairman Bob Wright greeted him with a not-so-flattering nickname: “Hey, flatliner.”

By the time Mr. Trump took office in 2017, MSNBC was surging back. Last month, amid a bruising election and the resurgence of the coronavirus, the network notched its highest viewership numbers in a quarter-century.





No.10 article:
The Kremlin Is Offering Russians Free Vaccines, but Will They Take Them?

Distrust of the government is so widespread that 59 percent of Russians say they have no intention of getting a shot.

MOSCOW — Aleksei Zakharov, a Moscow economics professor, got the Russian coronavirus vaccine injected into his upper arm over the weekend.

Getting the shot was an easy decision, he said — not because the Russian government said it was safe, but because scores of Russians have shared their experience with it on social media.

“I trust the grass roots collection of information far more, of course, than what the state says, at least before the testing results are available and published in a medical journal,” Mr. Zakharov, 44, said in a telephone interview Monday, already clear of a mild fever — a side-effect of the vaccine. “There’s no safe, no-risk option here. Either you get the vaccine or you risk getting sick.”

Russia made its coronavirus vaccine available for free in recent days to teachers, medical workers and social-service employees younger than 61 in Moscow. But even more than in the West, a lack of trust is hobbling Russia’s rollout of a vaccine: the country’s scientists may well have made great strides in battling the pandemic, but many Russians are not ready to believe it.

That distrust looms large as Russia races to roll out the vaccine while facing the fiercest onslaught of the pandemic yet, with some 500 deaths per day.

The government, in part, has itself to blame. President Vladimir V. Putin proclaimed in August that Russia had become the first country in the world to approve a vaccine for the novel coronavirus, to great fanfare in the state media, even though it had not been tested in a large-scale medical trial. Mr. Putin said the vaccine worked “effectively enough,” given the health emergency, but critics charged that he was dangerously short-circuiting the long established process for developing safe vaccines.

In research afterward, an independent polling institute, the Levada Center, found that the first-in-the-world bombast may have only deepened Russians’ suspicions: in October, 59 percent of respondents said they would not get a coronavirus vaccine, even if it was voluntary and free of charge.

Denis Volkov, Levada’s deputy director, said the typical response on the matter in focus groups was: “On the one hand, we are happy that we are first. But we won’t get it ourselves — let it go through the trials.”

“I’m not planning on getting vaccinated because half the people say it’s not a particularly good idea,” Valery Patrin, a 21-year-old jazz orchestra musician, said in an interview in Moscow on Monday. “There’s no way the vaccine will be tested normally.”

Aleksei A. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader now recuperating in Germany from a nerve-agent attack, himself voiced doubts about the safety of the vaccine on Saturday, calling on top government officials to get vaccinated themselves “under the eye of doctors and journalists.” While many members of the Russian elite — from top business executives and governors, to the editor of the Kremlin’s RT television network — have said they have already gotten the vaccine, Mr. Putin himself has not, though he says one of his daughters has.

The Russian government entity that makes the vaccine now being distributed says its product is 95 percent effective, but outside experts are skeptical of those claims. The name of the vaccine, Sputnik V, suggests the Kremlin views the vaccine as part of its competition with the West: Sputnik was the first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, in 1957, a high point for Moscow during the Cold War.

“Our Sputnik V is unpretentious and reliable, like the Kalashnikov rifle,” the state television host Dmitri Kiselyov said on his show last month, describing the Russian vaccine as superior to the one codeveloped by the American company Pfizer.

At a state-run community clinic in the neighborhood of Golyanovo, on the outskirts of Moscow, on Monday morning, a steady stream of people who had previously signed up for a time slot online presented identification and paperwork showing they worked in education, medicine or social services. Clinic employees checked patients’ medical records for issues like allergies or having received a different vaccine in the last 30 days, then performed a quick checkup.

“I believe that before referring my patients, I need to be a pioneer,” a 38-year-old physician, Lyudmila Soboleva, said as she waited for her shot. “I need to get vaccinated myself.”

A nurse removed a vial of the vaccine, containing five doses, from a special freezer showing a temperature of -36 degrees Fahrenheit, and waited for it to thaw. Along with the half-milliliter shot of adenovirus-based vaccine, the patients received a stamped immunization certificate and a pamphlet explaining that nausea and fatigue were normal side effects.

Before leaving, they signed up to come back for a booster shot in three weeks.

“We have one feeling: pride,” said Maria V. Sokolova, the clinic’s head doctor. “After all, we were the first to develop a vaccine, and now we are the first in the world to begin vaccinations.”

Indeed, Russia is pushing ahead with its vaccination approval and administration one step faster than Western countries, though the rollout has been hobbled by production challenges. On Wednesday, the country’s health minister, Mikhail Murashko, said that more than 100,000 people had already been vaccinated with Sputnik V, including members of the military.

But that is a fraction of the country’s population of 140 million. If Russia’s vaccination effort is to succeed, it appears likely that it will depend on positive word of mouth. Over the summer, the polling firm Ipsos found Russians to be more skeptical of a coronavirus vaccine than the public anywhere else in the 27 countries polled.

Only 27 percent of Russians trust the official data on the coronavirus, according to Levada. Of those who do not, about half believe the numbers are too high, and half believe the numbers are too low. The distrust, Levada’s Mr. Volkov said, is in line with Russians’ overall disenchantment with Mr. Putin after years of economic stagnation.

“There is a disbelief in official information, by default,” Mr. Volkov said.

And yet, there are also many critics of Mr. Putin who still see Russian-made vaccines — three are in Phase 3 trials — as their country’s best path out of the pandemic. Some Russians participating in the trials have been sharing their antibody-test results and side effects in groups on Facebook and the Telegram messaging app.

The volunteers’ general conclusion: the Sputnik V vaccine does appear to coax the body to produce Covid-19 antibodies, mostly without serious side effects. The organizer of one Facebook group of trial volunteers, Vera Smirnova, said she often criticized the government herself but was disappointed that many Russian liberals reflexively rejected the vaccine because of its association with the Kremlin.

“It makes me very sad. The price of this will be human lives,” said Ms. Smirnova, who is 42 and works as a university instructor in Moscow. “I think this is a moment in which, perhaps, we need to try to trust the authorities, because in the coming months we won’t have any other option.”





No.11 article:
Republicans Can’t Handle the Truth

You shouldn’t be surprised that they’re still backing Trump.

President Trump’s continuing attempts to overturn an election he lost decisively more than a month ago is, like so much of what he’s done in office, shocking but not surprising. Who imagined that he would go quietly?

What some people may not have been fully prepared for is the way Trump’s party as a whole has backed his dangerous delusions. According to a survey by The Washington Post, only 27 Republican members of Congress are willing to say that Joe Biden won. Despite the complete lack of evidence of significant fraud, two-thirds of self-identified Republicans said in a Reuters/Ipsos poll that the election was rigged.

But you really shouldn’t be surprised by this willingness to indulge malicious, democracy-endangering lies. After all, when was the last time Republicans accepted a politically inconvenient fact? It has been clear for years that the modern G.O.P. is a party that can’t handle the truth.

Most obviously, Republican refusal to accept the election results follows months of refusal to acknowledge the dangers of the coronavirus, even as Covid-19 has become the nation’s leading cause of death, and even as a startling number of people in Trump’s orbit have been infected.

Sure enough, virus denial and vote denial converged almost perfectly on Saturday, when Trump addressed a large, mostly unmasked crowd in Georgia — creating a potential superspreader event — and demanded that the governor overturn the state’s election results. The next day Rudy Giuliani, who has been directing Trump’s efforts to cling to office, was hospitalized with the virus.

The thing is, Republican rejection of reality didn’t start in 2020, or even with the Trump era. Climate change denial — including claims that global warming is a hoax perpetrated by an international cabal of scientists — has been a badge of partisan identity for many years. Crazy conspiracy theories about the Clintons were mainstream on the right through much of the 1990s.

And one half-forgotten episode in particular seems to me to have foreshadowed much of what we’re seeing right now: Republican reactions to the mostly successful introduction of Obamacare.

The Affordable Care Act went into full effect in 2014, amid dire predictions by Republicans. The act, they claimed, would drive insurance premiums sky-high, fail to reduce the number of uninsured, and have a devastating effect on employment.

None of that happened. Instead, millions of Americans gained health insurance coverage. Job creation continued, with three million jobs added in the year following the A.C.A.’s implementation. Obamacare may have fallen somewhat short of its sponsors’ hopes (although nobody expected it to yield universal coverage), but from the beginning it helped many Americans, and was nothing like the disaster opponents predicted.

As far as I can tell, however, no prominent Republican was willing to admit that the party’s apocalyptic warnings had been proved false, let alone talk about why they were wrong. Nor, of course, did Republicans make any effort to come up with a better health plan. (It has been almost 11 years since Obamacare was signed into law, and we’re still waiting.) Instead, party leaders simply pretended that the promised catastrophe had, in fact, materialized.

For example, John Boehner, the speaker of the House at the time, insisted that there had been a “net loss” of people with health insurance. After that three million-job gain, Jeb Bush (remember him?) insisted that Obamacare was “the greatest job suppressor in the so-called recovery.”

And in a move that prefigured the Trump team’s desperate attempts to find evidence for election fraud, right-wing groups went in search of health care horror stories, tales of ordinary Americans devastated by Obamacare.

To be fair, while there is no evidence of significant electoral fraud, some people really were hurt by health reform — mainly young, healthy individuals who previously had cheap policies and made too much money to be eligible for subsidies. But these weren’t the victims Republicans were looking for. Instead, they peddled tales of older, working-class Americans who supposedly had lost access to affordable insurance.

None of these tales stood up to scrutiny. But that didn’t matter to the G.O.P. As I wrote at the time, Republicans had already — pre-Trump — entered the era of post-truth politics.

Now, there’s obviously a big difference in immediate impact between refusing to accept evidence that contradicts your policy preconceptions and refusing to accept the results of an election. But the mind-set is the same.

The point is that once a party gets into the habit of rejecting facts it doesn’t want to hear, one fact it’s bound to reject sooner or later is the fact that it lost an election. In that sense there’s a straight line from, say, the Republican embrace of climate denial to the party’s willingness to go along with Trump’s attempts to retain power.

And the G.O.P.’s previous history of dealing with inconvenient reality gives us a pretty good idea about when the party will accept Joe Biden as the legitimate winner of the 2020 election — namely, never.





No.12 article:
Japan’s Journey to an Asteroid Ends With a Hunt in Australia’s Outback

The Hayabusa2 mission cements Japan’s role in exploring the solar system, but finding its asteroid cargo presented one last challenge.

This past weekend, Japan’s space agency concluded a six-year, 3.25 billion-mile journey of discovery that aims to shed light on the earliest eons of the solar system and possibly provide clues about the origins of life on Earth.

But first, it had to go on a scavenger hunt in the Australian outback.

Bits of an asteroid landed in a barren region near Woomera, South Australia. These were being ferried to Earth by Hayabusa2, a robotic space probe launched by JAXA, Japan’s space agency, in 2014 to explore an asteroid named Ryugu, a dark, carbon-rich rock a bit more than half a mile wide.

“I’m home,” Yuichi Tsuda, the mission’s project manager said in translated comments during a news conference after a capsule containing the asteroid sample was recovered. “Hayabusa2 is home.”

Dr. Tsuda described the condition of the capsule, which set down amid bushes in the Australian desert, as “very perfect.”

The success of the mission and the science it produces will raise Japan’s status as a central player in deep space exploration, together with NASA, the European Space Agency and Russia. JAXA currently has a spacecraft in orbit around Venus studying that planet’s hellish climate and is collaborating with the Europeans on a mission that is on its way to Mercury.

In the coming years, Japan plans to bring back rocks from Phobos, a moon of Mars, and contribute to NASA’s Artemis program to send astronauts to Earth’s moon.

But the immediate challenge was finding the 16-inch-wide return capsule somewhere amid thousands of square miles in a region 280 miles north of Adelaide, the nearest large city.

“It’s really in the middle of nowhere,” Shogo Tachibana, the principal investigator in charge of the analysis of the Hayabusa2 samples, said in an interview. He is part of a team of more than 70 people from Japan who traveled to Woomera for recovery of the capsule. The area, used by the Australian military for testing, provides a wide open space that was ideal for the return of an interplanetary probe.

The return capsule separated from the main spacecraft on Saturday about 12 hours before the landing, when it was about 125,000 miles from Earth. The mission’s managers confirmed the capsule’s ejection using data beamed back from the spacecraft, as well as with visual assistance from telescopes, like one at Kyoto University in Japan.

Soichi Noguchi, a Japanese astronaut who joined the International Space Station crew in November after a trip in a SpaceX capsule, said he spotted Hayabusa2 from orbit:

A day before, heavy rains fell and strong winds blew in Woomera. But then the air cleared and calmed. “The weather was crystal clear,” Dr. Tsuda said.

The capsule was spotted re-entering the atmosphere during the pre-dawn hours of Australia on Sunday, a tail streaming behind it as the atmosphere heated its surface.

Minutes later, the mission’s managers detected a radio signal from a beacon in the capsule.

From the fireball, the radio beacon and radar readings, the recovery team calculated the likely landing spot, and a helicopter was sent from Woomera to search for the capsule, although it was still dark.

“I was very, very, very nervous and uneasy,” Satoru Nakazawa, a project sub-manager who was part of the Woomera recovery team, said during the news conference.

But then, soon after sunrise, the capsule and its parachute were spotted. “We thought, wow, we found that,” Mr. Nakazawa said.

Even with the capsule in hand, there is a bit of a rush. The team wanted to whisk it back to Japan within 100 hours after the landing. Even though the container is sealed, the worry is that Earth air will slowly leak in. “There is no perfect sealing,” Dr. Tachibana said.

The helicopter took the capsule to a laboratory that has been set up at the Australian air force base at Woomera. There an instrument extracted gases within the capsule that may have been released by the asteroid rocks as they were shaken and broken during re-entry.

Makoto Yoshikawa, the mission manager, said in an interview the scientists would also like to see if they can detect any solar wind particles of helium that slammed into the asteroid and became embedded in the rocks.

The gases would also reassure the scientists that Hayabusa2 did indeed successfully collect samples from Ryugu. A minimum of 0.1 grams, or less than 1/280th of an ounce, is needed to declare success. The hope is the spacecraft brought back several grams.

On Monday night, an airplane left Australia to carry the sample back to Japan. There, the Hayabusa2 team will examine the Ryugu samples in earnest. In about a year, some of the samples will be shared with other scientists for additional study.

To gather these samples, Hayabusa2 arrived at the asteroid in June 2018. It executed a series of investigations, each of escalating technical complexity. It dropped probes to the surface of Ryugu, blasted a hole in the asteroid to peer at what lies beneath and twice descended to the surface to grab small pieces of the asteroid, an operation that proved much more challenging than expected because of the many boulders on the surface.

Small worlds like Ryugu used to be of little interest to planetary scientists who focused on studying planets, Masaki Fujimoto, deputy director general of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, part of JAXA, said in an interview.

“Minor bodies, who cares?” he said. “But if you are serious about the formation of planetary systems, small bodies actually matter.”

Studying water trapped in minerals from Ryugu could give hints if the water in Earth’s oceans came from asteroids, and if carbon-based molecules could have seeded the building blocks for life.

Part of the Ryugu samples will go to NASA, which is bringing back some rocks and soil from another asteroid with its OSIRIS-REX mission. The OSIRIS-REX space probe has been studying a smaller carbon-rich asteroid named Bennu and it will start back to Earth next spring, dropping off its rock samples in September 2023.

Ryugu and Bennu turned out to be surprisingly similar in some ways, both looking like spinning tops and with surfaces covered with boulders, but different in other ways. The rocks on Ryugu appear to contain much less water, for one. The significance of the similarities and differences will not become clear until after scientists study the rocks in more detail.

“When the OSIRIS-REX sample comes back, we will have lessons learned from the Hayabusa2 mission,” said Harold C. Connolly Jr., a geology professor at Rowan University in New Jersey and the mission sample scientist for OSIRIS-REX. “The similarities and differences are absolutely fascinating.”

Dr. Connolly hopes to go to Japan next summer to take part in analyzing the Ryugu samples.

Hayabusa2 is not Japan’s first planetary mission. Indeed, its name points to the existence of Hayabusa, an earlier mission that brought back samples from another asteroid, Itokawa. But that mission, which launched in 2003 and returned in 2010, faced major technical problems. So did JAXA’s Akatsuki spacecraft, currently in orbit around Venus, which the Japanese agency managed to restore to a scientific mission after years of difficulty. A Japanese mission to Mars also failed in 2003.

By contrast, operations of Hayabusa2 have gone almost flawlessly, even though it retains the same general design as its predecessor. “Actually, there are no big issues,” Dr. Yoshikawa, the mission manager, said. “Of course, small ones.”

He said the team studied in detail the failures on Hayabusa and made changes as needed, and also conducted numerous rehearsals to try to anticipate any contingencies it might encounter.

The team also had to navigate logistical hurdles because of the Covid-19 pandemic, quarantining for two weeks in a hotel in Adelaide before heading to Woomera.

The Japanese missions generally operate on smaller budgets than NASA’s and thus often carry fewer instruments. Hayabusa2’s cost is less than $300 million while OSIRIS-REX’s price will run about $1 billion.

Dropping off the Ryugu samples is not the end of the Hayabusa2 mission. After releasing the return capsule, the main spacecraft shifted course to avoid a collision with Earth, missing by 125 miles. It will now travel to another asteroid, a tiny one designated 1998 KY26 that is only 100 feet in diameter but spinning rapidly, completing one rotation in less than 11 minutes.

Hayabusa2 will use two flybys of Earth to fling itself toward KY26, finally arriving in 2031. It will conduct some astronomical experiments during its extended deep space journey, and the spacecraft still carries one last projectile that it may use to test that space rock’s surface.





No.13 article:
An Autistic Man Is Killed, Exposing Israel’s Festering Police Brutality Problem

The police killing of a disabled Palestinian fueled nationwide protests. But the authorities have failed to rein in the use of excessive force, which has a long history.

JERUSALEM — The school for the mentally disabled in Jerusalem’s Old City made a point of preparing its Palestinian students for interactions with the Israeli police.

There were frequent role-playing exercises, sometimes with real officers from a nearby police post playing themselves: How to say hello. How to present an ID. How to not be afraid.

Iyad al-Hallaq, a 31-year-old with autism, was a star pupil. But early on a Saturday, those lessons failed him. When police officers called out to him along the ancient Via Dolorosa, he took flight. He was quickly cornered, and a rookie officer, apparently sensing a threat, shot and killed him.

Mr. al-Hallaq was unarmed, those who knew him called him harmless, and witnesses said his teacher had shouted at the officers that he was disabled. The May 30 shooting was so disturbing that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called it a tragedy and Defense Minister Benny Gantz issued an apology.

Hoping to ignite a “Palestinian Lives Matter” movement, activists tried to link Mr. al-Hallaq’s killing to that of George Floyd in Minneapolis five days earlier, turning his name into a rallying cry. Since then, outrage over police brutality has grown after police officers and commanders were videotaped pummeling and choking anti-government protesters.

Prosecutors have recommended that the officer who shot Mr. al-Hallaq be charged with manslaughter but a conviction would be as exceptional as the killing was shocking. More likely, experts say, the outrage will dissipate, the prosecution will fizzle and little will change. The officer has not yet been formally charged.

But Israel’s problem with police brutality is not going away. Since at least the 1970s, efforts to rein in violent officers and impose accountability for their actions have repeatedly failed. The result is a system that often lets officers off the hook for all but the most damning and public excesses, and sometimes even for those.

The vast majority of complaints of police violence — 86 percent in the most recent year for which statistics are available — are never investigated, according to Justice Ministry records. Those that are almost never lead to criminal charges or even disciplinary action.

Critics say a culture of impunity pervades the police force, particularly in cases with minority victims. Ethiopian-Israelis, ultra-Orthodox Jews and left-wing activists are disproportionately victimized, critics say, while Palestinians receive the roughest treatment.

Lethal force, while rare, is wielded almost exclusively against Arabs and other minorities: Of 13 people known to have been killed by the police last year, 11 were Palestinians and two were of Ethiopian descent.

“Police officers know that there’s no accountability, so they’re more careless when it comes to certain populations,” said Fady Khoury, a Palestinian human rights lawyer.

Deadly errors, like the one that killed Mr. al-Hallaq, are often ascribed to inexperience. The least experienced officers, teenage draftees fulfilling their military obligations in the border police, are routinely assigned to the most volatile hot spots, like Jerusalem’s Old City.

Police officials insist that they do not tolerate brutality in the ranks.

“I don’t know any commander who wants a violent officer in his unit,” said Chief Superintendent Arad Braverman, who commands a 150-officer detachment of border police in the Old City. “I don’t know of any commander who knows he has a violent officer in his group or in his unit and he doesn’t oust them.”

The increasing use of body cameras, he said, will make it harder to get away with brutality. And he said that officers were well trained in the proper use of force, with reminders before every shift and monthly case studies.

Superintendent Braverman said that although it was impossible to avoid assigning raw recruits to friction points like the Old City, they were paired with experienced officers precisely to avoid deadly misjudgments.

But critics say that Israel’s police chiefs have too often failed to take a strong stand against excessive force.

“When the police are brutal and the leadership keeps silent, it’s screaming consent,” said Eran Schendar, who established the Justice Ministry’s Department of Investigations of Police Misconduct in 1992 and led it until 2003. “The fish stinks from the head.”

Experts attribute the seeming intractability of Israel’s police brutality problem to the mixed mission of the force: the police role of maintaining law and order melded with the military one of securing the front lines of a national conflict.

The Department of Investigations of Police Misconduct, which handles brutality complaints, often hesitates to investigate brutality allegations for fear that officers will shrink from using force when necessary, a 2017 comptroller’s audit found. Similarly, reform efforts invariably run up against dire warnings from police commanders of a “chilling effect” on officers’ aggressiveness.

“They say, we’re an organization where force is one of our main tools, and if we start restricting our policemen in using it too much, they’ll be too soft,” Mr. Schendar said. “And there we have a problem.”

If anything, the Justice Ministry may be easing its scrutiny.

The police force draws around 1,200 brutality complaints a year. While the majority are dropped before an investigation is opened, the number of indictments has fallen sharply. After rising for several years, they plummeted to just eight in 2018 from 44 the previous year, according to the most recent data available.

Short of prosecution, the misconduct unit can refer cases to the police force for disciplinary action. But the number of officers facing police disciplinary tribunals for excessive force fell from 86 in 2005 to just seven in 2015, according to the comptroller’s audit.

With few exceptions, the misconduct unit pursues only cases it considers slam-dunks.

Hila Edelman, the unit’s top prosecutor, said her outfit was as aggressive as it could be, and pointed proudly to its 87 percent conviction rate. But she said it was legally limited to pursuing cases with a “reasonable chance of conviction.”

“It’s not mathematics,” she said. “I wish I could put the evidence into a machine and it would tell me whether we’d get a conviction.”

She said the misconduct unit faces enormous obstacles: Often the sole witnesses in brutality cases, beyond the victim and the accused, are other police officers who refuse to incriminate one another. Judges are reflexively sympathetic to officers. The accusers often have criminal records, undercutting their credibility. And many Palestinians don’t bother filing complaints, doubting the system will do anything to help them.

Ms. Edelman dismissed the idea of seeking more indictments to send a message that excessive force would not be tolerated. That could mean more acquittals, she said, which could be interpreted as “a kosher certificate saying this action was fine.”

“I’m doing the most I can,” she said.

Lawyers for victims, however, say the misconduct unit too readily gives officers the benefit of the doubt, or lets complaints slide altogether, often failing to interview the accused or gather surveillance footage.

“They do the minimum of the minimum,” said Khalil Zaher, an East Jerusalem attorney with the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel.

When Haim Einhorn, an ultra-Orthodox Jew, complained that a police officer had punched him in the face in the tumult of a 2017 street protest in which he was only a bystander, the misconduct unit let the allegation languish for 18 months before declining to investigate.

Mr. Einhorn, 33, said he had the feeling that “I was submitting evidence and they were doing nothing.”

After Israel’s Supreme Court upbraided investigators, the case was reopened in May. By then, any surveillance images were long gone.

And when five off-duty border police officers viciously beat a Bedouin grocery worker in Tel Aviv in 2016, an attack captured on video, charges against four were dropped, and the investigation dragged on so long that the fifth had already completed his service and was no longer subject to disciplinary proceedings before they even began.

Efforts to tackle the problem systematically have been stymied by a shocking lack of data.

Neither the police nor the Justice Ministry has a system for tracking complaints against individual officers, leaving them ill-equipped to expose patterns of abuse and weed out violent officers.

And claims that minorities bear the brunt of police brutality are difficult to prove when the misconduct unit does not gather demographic information about the victims.

“They say it would be racist to collect it,” said Guy Lurie, an expert on the justice system at the Israeli Democracy Institute.

Mr. Schendar, the misconduct unit’s founder, said he had established the policy but now believes it was a mistake, saying such data is vital.

Palestinian lawyers say that the bias is obvious.

“They’re violent with everyone, but even more with Palestinians and Arabs,” Mr. Zaher said. “They’re much quicker to shoot at Palestinians. You rarely see them shoot at Israelis.”

Of the 11 Palestinians killed by the police in 2019, several were shot in the act of violent attacks, the authorities said, usually armed with knives. But three were shot after stealing cars, and a teenager was shot while trying to climb over Israel’s West Bank security barrier.

Badi Hasisi, chairman of Hebrew University’s Institute of Criminology, said violence was ingrained in the culture of the Israeli police force, which grew out of the paramilitary force the British maintained in Palestine.

“As colonial police, they were meant to deal with uprisings,” Professor Hasisi said. “They were more concerned with control — to be able to mobilize resources without any bureaucratic constraints.”

That imperative, he said, can still be seen in the force’s abiding resistance to accountability measures, viewing them as “sticks in the bicycle wheel.”

Missing in Israel, advocates say, is an agency empowered to tackle brutality as a systemic problem, the way the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division has intervened against police departments across the United States.

Also unlike the United States, where plaintiffs can win multimillion-dollar settlements or jury awards including punitive damages, Israel’s civil courts provide only a weak backstop. The Israeli police paid less than $700,000 in 2019 to resolve an undisclosed number of use-of-force lawsuits, records show.

What little accountability exists often seems to require incontrovertible video evidence: A bystander’s video of an officer beating a truck driver in East Jerusalem quickly prompted the officer’s firing. Officers who were recorded beating a Palestinian man outside the Old City — who prosecutors say had been falsely arrested for assaulting them — were eventually charged with assault and obstruction of justice.

But while officials promised to distribute body cameras to 12,000 police officers by the end of this year, only around 5,500 have been deployed, few with the units most often sent into volatile situations.

And cameras are not a cure-all.

That was one of the lessons from the killing of Mr. al-Hallaq.

At 31, he was poised to gain new independence. At his school just off the Via Dolorosa, where he learned cooking, gardening and “life skills,” he had begun communicating his feelings — a breakthrough, his teachers said.

“These are the moments that we, as professionals, are waiting for,” said the principal, Issam Jammal.

His teachers were helping Mr. al-Hallaq search for a paying job. His parents had bought him an apartment and were working on finding him a wife.

“He would say, ‘Mama, marry me off,’” said his mother, Rana al-Hallaq.

Mr. al-Hallaq liked to be the first one at school and to retrieve the morning’s deliveries of warm pita. At around 6 a.m. on May 30, he was passing through the Lions Gate, one of the passageways through the Old City’s ancient walls, when officers called to him.

He ran, prosecutors said.

Two border police officers, alerted to a possible attacker, gave chase: a 19-year-old rookie and a 21-year-old commander nearing the end of his service.

Mr. al-Hallaq ran about 100 yards toward his school, just around the corner. The older officer fired at his legs but missed.

Mr. al-Hallaq turned into a storage area for city trash collectors. Witnesses said he cowered in a corner, his back against a wall.

His teacher, seeing the confrontation unfold, said she yelled, in Hebrew, that Mr. al-Hallaq was disabled.

The rookie officer told investigators he believed Mr. al-Hallaq was about to pull a weapon. He fired once. After his commander told him to cease firing, prosecutors say, the officer fired again. Israeli law prohibits his name from being published while the case remains under investigation.

Ten police surveillance cameras blanket the path Mr. al-Hallaq took along the Via Dolorosa. Two more cameras are trained on the spot where Mr. al-Hallaq fell.

But the day before, prosecutors said, the recorder the cameras were wired to had been unplugged.

The rookie officer’s lawyer, citing her client’s youth and inexperience, expressed confidence the case would be dropped.





No.14 article:
As Brexit Deadline Looms, Boris Johnson Takes Personal Control of Talks

With negotiators at impasse, the prime minister hopes he and European leaders can hammer out a trade deal to replace the one that expires on Dec. 31.

LONDON — With time running out and the gaps still wide, Prime Minister Boris Johnson took personal control of the Brexit negotiations on Monday, declaring that he would travel to Brussels later this week for a last-ditch effort to strike a trade agreement between Britain and the European Union.

Mr. Johnson’s announcement, after a 90-minute phone call with the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, raised the stakes as the talks enter their endgame. After 11 months of grinding negotiations, it appears, only a face-to-face meeting of political leaders can produce a breakthrough.

“We agreed that the conditions for finalizing an agreement are not there,” Mr. Johnson and Ms. von der Leyen said in a statement, adding that they had asked their negotiators to “prepare an overview of the remaining differences to be discussed in a physical meeting in Brussels in the coming days.”

The key sticking points, they said, were fishing rights, and state aid and fair competition for industry — issues that have divided the two sides from the start.

Analysts welcomed Mr. Johnson’s readiness to jump in, which came after days of intensive negotiations that had failed to narrow the gaps. With a deadline of Dec. 31 to conclude a deal, there were growing fears that the talks might end in failure, throwing Britain’s relationship with the 27-nation bloc into flux.

“Would Boris Johnson really go to Brussels if there were no longer any hope?” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the political risk consultancy Eurasia Group. “It is the moment either for a deal, or for a final attempt to demonstrate that both sides have tried very hard to to get to a deal that was ultimately out of reach.”

If Mr. Johnson’s talks with Ms. von der Leyen were to fail to break the impasse, Britain’s strategy, he said, would be to put the issue on the agenda of E.U. heads of government, who are gathering in Brussels on Thursday.

That reflects a belief that the negotiators have achieved as much as they can, and that a new political impetus is needed to break the deadlock. But Mr. Rahman warned that if Britain saw it as an opportunity to try to fracture the unity of the E.U. member states, that would likely backfire.

Britain left the European Union in January, but little has changed yet because it remains tied to the bloc’s trade rules through the end of the year. That arrangement was supposed to give London and Brussels time to hammer out a long-term trade agreement.

Failure to strike a deal would compound the damage done by the coronavirus pandemic on both sides of the English Channel. But it would have far greater implications in Britain, where it would mean new trade barriers with the country’s biggest partner, as well as potential friction with the United States.

Even with a deal, there will be more checks on goods at border points. The British intend to phase in most of these controls over six months to limit disruption, but France is unlikely to do the same, which could leave cross-Channel ports clogged and ferries stranded.

On Monday, Downing Street accepted that food prices would likely rise in Britain without a trade deal, though it argued these hikes would be modest. Food importers have warned that some products, including some fruit and vegetables, could disappear temporarily from grocery shelves.

Tariffs could have a devastating impact on some sectors and put the government under enormous pressure to step in to provide compensation. Among the hardest hit would be sheep farmers, whose exports of lamb to the European Union would be hit by tariffs likely to average around 48 percent.

Some automakers are warning that the imposition of export tariffs could make their business untenable. Even with a trade deal, they could face problems, depending on the fine print of the agreement and specifications of what proportion of non-British components they are allowed to use in manufacturing.

“Take a moment to step back from the details and reflect on the sheer absurdity of breaking away from our nearest neighbours, who take 45 percent of our exports, without even a basic trade deal,” wrote Peter Ricketts, a former British national security adviser, on Twitter.

There would be problems on the European side, too, particularly for Ireland, whose economy is linked closely to Britain’s. German, French, Dutch and Belgian companies would suffer as well, though the pain would likely be more spread out, reducing its impact in any single country.

That has led European diplomats to conclude that Britain holds the weaker hand, particularly as its prospects of striking a trade deal with the United States have dimmed since Joseph R. Biden Jr. became president-elect.

Nonetheless, Mr. Johnson’s ultimate decision on any possible deal probably depends on his calculation of the blowback from his own restive Conservative Party backbench lawmakers. The pro-Brexit faction forced out Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, and has warned Mr. Johnson he has limited room for maneuver.

“The hard-line minority in Johnson’s party wield a lot of weight, especially when they play on the sovereignty heartstrings,” said Bobby McDonagh, a former Irish ambassador to Britain. “There is a view of sovereignty in London that is hard to come to grips with because it doesn’t seem to take account of the sovereignty of other countries.”

On Monday, the Johnson government brought back to the House of Commons a bill that would renege on parts of its withdrawal agreement with Brussels that relate to Northern Ireland — a reversal that has infuriated many European officials. The House of Lords had rejected parts of the legislation, which the government acknowledges violate international law.

But in separate meetings, British officials extended an olive branch, telling European Union officials that they would strike the offending language from the legislation if the two sides struck a trade deal.

Britain’s treatment of Northern Ireland is also important to its relationship with President-elect Biden. He expressed concern during the campaign that Mr. Johnson’s negotiating tactics could threaten the Good Friday Agreement, which settled decades of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland.

The terms of Britain’s trade relationship with the United States will not change, with or without a Brexit deal. It will be covered by World Trade Organization rules, as it was before Brexit.

Mr. Biden has ruled out new trade agreements with any country until the United States improves its own competitiveness. Trade experts warned that Britain could be handicapped in other ways if the talks with Brussels ended in failure.

“If there is no U.K.-E.U. deal, it will make it very difficult to reach agreement with the U.S., including on such basic topics as rules of origin, agriculture trade and food safety,” said Daniel M. Price, a former top trade adviser to President George W. Bush.





No.15 article:
Steaks Grown From Human Cells Spark Interest and Outrage

An artist project offering an absurdist take on the lab-grown meat industry triggers a debate and backlash in London.

The installation of steak grown from human cells at the Design Museum in London was intended to criticize the meat industry’s rising use of living cells from animals. It ended up triggering a roiling debate about bioethics and the pitfalls of artistic critique.

Orkan Telhan, an artist and associate professor of fine arts at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design at the University of Pennsylvania, spent the last year imagining how climate change might impact the future of food consumption. He collaborated with scientists to create a project that included 3-D printed pancakes, bioengineered bread and genetically-modified salmon. But it was their provocative, and less appetizing, development of what they call “Ouroboros Steak,” meat cultivated from human cells and expired blood, that challenged the sustainability practices of the nascent cellular agriculture industry, which develops lab-grown products from existing cell cultures.

After the Ouroboros Steak traveled to the Design Museum in October, an intense online debate grew over the project’s motivations, and the artist received dozens of threatening emails and social media posts calling him “wicked” and “pure evil.” Some messages have demanded the destruction of the artwork. According to Mr. Telhan, who provided the emails and tweets to a reporter, “the focus quickly became centered on accusations that we were promoting cannibalism.”

Mr. Telhan added, “It was a misinterpretation that became politicized in all the wrong ways because humans eating each other is a taboo topic.”

Named after the ancient symbol of a snake eating its own tail, “Ouroboros Steak” examines, but does not promote, auto-cannibalism as a satirical take on the increasing demand for meat products around the world, which scientists have warned will likely contribute to carbon emissions and reduced biodiversity. The designers hoped that shocking audiences with the suggestion would trigger an examination of environmental responsibility and the clean-meat industry, which has promoted itself as producing “kill-free” food, although most companies heavily rely on fetal bovine serum harvested during the slaughter of pregnant cows for cell cultivation.

“Our project provides an absurd solution to a serious problem,” said Andrew Pelling, a biophysicist who partnered with Mr. Telhan and the industrial designer Grace Knight to create the steaks. “But in our scenario, you are at least giving consent by taking your own cells. In the world of lab-grown meats, you are taking cells from animals without their consent.”

As controversial as the project has become, the bite-size chunks of meat toured museums around the United States last year without a problem — even when cheekily displayed on a dish with silverware.

“I called it a sleeper hit,” said Michelle Millar Fisher, the curator who commissioned the steaks for the exhibition, “Designs for Different Futures,” which began at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and traveled to the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. “The provocation at the heart of this project is really fair. It’s important to ask ourselves where we get our proteins.”

There are no plans to remove the installation from the Design Museum before the exhibition ends in March 2021, although Ms. Fisher and Mr. Telhan will address the criticism of “Ouroboros Steak” in an upcoming online conversation. Priya Khanchandani, head of curatorial at the Design Museum, has also defended the project, calling it “the equivalent of a design dystopia.”

“It is asking a controversial question that in an epoch of severely depleted resources badly needs to be articulated,” she added.

Investment in cellular agriculture has increased at a remarkable pace over the last few years, even as serious discussions around the bioethics of lab-grown meat have taken a back seat. Market researchers estimate that the cultured meat business could reach $214 million by 2025, and more than double to $593 million by 2032. Earlier this year, the National Science Foundation Growing Convergence program awarded the University of California, Davis, a $3.5 million grant for cell-based, lab-grown meat research. And on Dec. 2, Singapore became the first government to approve the consumption of chicken cells grown in bioreactors, telling the San Francisco-based company Eat Just that it could sell its bioengineered chicken nuggets.

“We need productive critique if we are ushering in a new technology,” said Isha Datar, executive director of New Harvest, a nonprofit research institute focused on accelerating breakthroughs in cellular agriculture. “This technology holds the promise to create a more sustainable means of meat production, but how do we hold ourselves accountable to ensuring that happens?”

In recent decades, several artists have questioned the ethics of biotechnology by adopting the field’s methods and machinery. The Brazilian artist Eduardo Kac worked with a team of geneticists in 2002 to splice an albino rabbit’s DNA with that of a luminescent jellyfish to call attention to what the transgenic crossing of species’ characteristics might imply for the human genome. In 2019, the artist Jordan Eagles projected magnified images of blood onto the gallery walls of the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh as commentary on the stigma associated with L.G.B.T.Q. blood donations and those living with H.I.V./AIDS.

Despite the ongoing streams of hate mail flowing into Mr. Telhan’s inbox, the artist and his collaborators say they have received a significant number of inquiries from ordinary people interested in purchasing a kit to grow meat from their own cells (it is not for sale). Dr. Pelling said that he has also received inquiries from several venture capitalists looking to invest early in “Ouroboros Steak” or join an accelerator program. For the time being, however, there are no plans to bring meat made from human cells to market.

“This project has been provocative, maybe too provocative,” he joked. “That’s just a symptom of the excitement around cultured meat.”





No.16 article:
Bob Dylan Sells His Songwriting Catalog in Blockbuster Deal

Universal Music purchased his entire songwriting catalog of more than 600 songs in what may be the biggest acquisition ever of a single act’s publishing rights.

Bob Dylan’s memoir “Chronicles: Volume One” opens in 1962 with the signing of his first music publishing deal — a contract for the copyrights of the budding songwriter’s work. The terms of that agreement, brokered by Lou Levy of Leeds Music Publishing, met young Dylan’s approval.

“Lou had advanced me a hundred dollars against future royalties to sign the paper,” he wrote, “and that was fine with me.” 

Fifty-eight years, more than 600 songs and one Nobel Prize later, the cultural and economic value of Dylan’s songwriting corpus have both grown exponentially.

On Monday, the Universal Music Publishing Group announced that it had signed a landmark deal to purchase Dylan’s entire songwriting catalog — including world-changing classics like “Blowin’ in the Wind,” “The Times They Are A-Changin’” and “Like a Rolling Stone” — in what may be the biggest acquisition ever of the music publishing rights of a single songwriter.

The deal, which covers Dylan’s entire career, from his earliest tunes to his latest album, “Rough and Rowdy Ways,” was struck directly with Dylan, 79, who has long controlled the vast majority of his own songwriting copyrights.

The price was not disclosed, but is estimated at more than $300 million.

“It’s no secret that the art of songwriting is the fundamental key to all great music, nor is it a secret that Bob is one of the very greatest practitioners of that art,” Lucian Grainge, the chief executive of the Universal Music Group, said in a statement.

The deal is the latest and most high-profile in this year’s buzzing market for music catalogs, as artists both young and old have sold their songs, while publishers and investors have raised billions of dollars from both public and private sources to persuade writers to part with their creations.

Last week, Stevie Nicks sold a majority stake in her songwriting catalog for an estimated $80 million to Primary Wave Music, an independent publisher and marketing company. Hipgnosis Songs Fund, a British company that has made a rapid run in the market in just two and a half years, recently disclosed that it had spent about $670 million from March to September acquiring rights in more than 44,000 songs by Blondie, Rick James, Barry Manilow, Chrissie Hynde of the Pretenders and others.

Dylan’s catalog, though, is a special gem, revered in a way that perhaps no other popular musician has achieved. His trove of songs have reshaped folk, rock and pop, and he maintains an almost mythic status as the bard of the current age. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016 “for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.”

Yet to a degree that still surprises and shocks his audience, Dylan has long been aggressive about marketing his music, including pursuing licensing deals to place his songs in television commercials.

In 1994, Dylan let the accounting firm Coopers &amp; Lybrand — predecessor of the current giant PricewaterhouseCoopers — use Richie Havens’s rendition of his 1964 protest anthem “The Times They Are A-Changin’” in a TV spot. Fans, media commentators and even other artists reacted in horror; Time magazine wrote about the controversy with the headline “Just in Case You Hadn’t Heard — The ’60s Are Over.”

The Coopers &amp; Lybrand spot was far from Dylan’s last commercial license: He did a prominent deal for a Victoria’s Secret TV spot in 2004, and later worked with Apple, Cadillac, Pepsi and IBM. Two years ago, he launched a high-end whiskey brand, Heaven’s Door.

Since Universal now controls his work, Dylan will no longer have veto power over how his songs will be used. After the deal was announced early Monday, users on Twitter had a field day with corny puns suggesting how Dylan’s work could be exploited. “Pay Lady Pay,” one user quipped. “Tangled Up in Blue Cross/Blue Shield,” wrote another.

Still, Universal insisted it would be tasteful in its use of Dylan’s work.

Jody Gerson, the chief executive of Universal’s publishing division, said, “To represent the body of work of one of the greatest songwriters of all time — whose cultural importance can’t be overstated — is both a privilege and a responsibility.”

Dylan is the kind of writer whose work music publishers tend to salivate over. Not only has it stood the test of time, but most of his songs were written by Dylan alone and have been frequently covered by other artists — with each use generating royalties. According to Universal, Dylan’s songs have been recorded more than 6,000 times.

Music publishing is the side of the business that deals in the copyrights for songwriting and composition — the lyrics and melodies of songs, in their most fundamental form — which are distinct from those for a recording. Publishers and writers collect royalties and licensing fees any time their work is sold, streamed, broadcast on the radio or used in a movie or commercial. (The recent sale of Taylor Swift’s first six albums covered only that material’s recording rights. Swift signed a separate publishing deal with Universal in February.)

Streaming has helped lift the entire music market — publishers in the United States collected $3.7 billion in 2019, according to the National Music Publishers’ Association — which has drawn new investors attracted to the steady and growing income generated by music rights.

Dylan’s deal includes 100 percent of his rights for all the songs of his catalog, including both the income he receives as a songwriter and his control of each song’s copyright. In exchange for its payment to Dylan, Universal, a division of the French media conglomerate Vivendi, will collect all future income from the songs.

Dylan had no comment on the deal.

Music publishing has been a little-known cornerstone of much of Dylan’s career. The songs he recorded with the Band in 1967, for example, which were widely bootlegged at the time and later collected in Dylan’s 1975 album “The Basement Tapes,” were intended as demos to be shopped to other recording artists.

And much of Dylan’s business empire is operated through the Bob Dylan Music Company, a small office in New York that administers his publishing rights in the United States. (Elsewhere around the world, his catalog has been administered by Sony/ATV, which will continue to do so until the expiration of its contract in a few years.)

The deal includes more than 600 songs spread across a number of publishing companies that Dylan has had over the years. With the exception of his original Leeds Music deal — which included seven songs, among them “Song for Woody” and “Talkin’ New York” — Dylan eventually took full control of all his copyrights from those catalogs; Leeds was sold in 1964 to MCA, which became Universal.

The Universal deal also includes Dylan’s shares in a number of songs he has written with other songwriters. But of the more than 600 titles included in the deal, there are a handful by members of the Band, which Dylan was long associated with — including Robbie Robertson’s song “The Weight” — that Dylan owns the copyright to but did not compose.

But the agreement does not include any of Dylan’s unreleased songs. It also doesn’t cover any work Dylan writes in the future, leaving open the possibility that he could choose to work with another publisher for that material.





No.17 article:
Cliff Joseph, Artist, Activist and Therapist, Dies at 98

After agitating for the inclusion of Black artists in New York museums, he helped introduce a multicultural perspective to the field of art therapy.

Cliff Joseph, an artist raised in Harlem who in the 1960s and ’70s led protests against major New York museums to advocate for the inclusion of Black artists, and who later pioneered the practice of multiculturalism in the field of art therapy, died on Nov. 8 in a hospital in Chicago. He was 98.

His wife, Ann Joseph, confirmed the death.

In 1963, Mr. Joseph, whose paintings depicted the social unrest sweeping the nation, was struggling as an artist in New York. He was in Washington that August, standing at the front of the crowd at the Lincoln Memorial when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech.

“I was so moved by that experience and what it said to me about the way I should be using my art skills,” Mr. Joseph said in a 2006 documentary, “Conversations With Cliff Joseph.” “This really awakened me.”

Mr. Joseph and a group of other artists founded the Black Emergency Cultural Coalition, which began agitating for the inclusion of African-American artists in New York museums.

When the Metropolitan Museum of Art opened the show “Harlem on My Mind” in 1969, their cause gained attention. The exhibition, which documented the culture and history of Harlem, included no paintings or sculptures by Black artists. Mr. Joseph and his fellow activists picketed outside the museum for days with signs that read, “Harlem on Whose Mind?”

Their voices were heard.

Mayor John V. Lindsay criticized the exhibition. The New York State Division of Human Rights denounced it. And the Met’s curator, Thomas Hoving, issued a rare public apology.

In 1971, the Whitney Museum of American Art opened an exhibition called “Contemporary Black Artists in America.” The coalition criticized the museum for assigning a white curator to the project.

“It is essential,” Mr. Joseph said in a statement, “that it be selected by one whose wisdom, strength and depth of sensitivity regarding Black art is drawn from the well of his own Black experience.”

The Whitney’s director, John I.H. Baur, told the news media, “The coalition stands for a kind of separatism I don’t believe in.”

Fifteen Black artists, including the sculptor Richard Hunt and the painter Sam Gilliam, withdrew from the exhibition on its opening day. Soon after that, the group staged a protest show, “Rebuttal to Whitney Museum Exhibition,” at Acts of Art, a Black-owned gallery in Greenwich Village.

After the inmate uprising at the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York in 1971, the group lobbied for the implementation of arts programs for prisoners, and Mr. Joseph sent a letter to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.

“Those who are at the head of the oppressive system know well the power of art and fear it in the hands of the people,” he wrote. “That is why power structures throughout man’s history have sought to suppress and control the creative artist.”

That same year, their arts program, often taught by artists from the coalition, was implemented at the Tombs in Lower Manhattan, later expanding to correctional facilities across the country.

In his 40s, Mr. Joseph entered the mental health field of art therapy, helping to introduce concepts like racial sensitivity and cultural competency to the profession.

He taught art therapy at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn for 11 years and worked at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was the first Black member of the American Art Therapy Association and became president of the New York Art Therapy Association in 1981.

In the 2006 documentary, Mr. Joseph reflected on his contributions to multiculturalism in his field.

“It’s not that a person has to be Black to deal with Black patients,” he said. “But if a white person comes in to deal with a group of Black people, that person should know that a culture-specific approach should be used.”

Otherwise, he continued, “they’re not going to understand where you’re coming from, and you won’t understand where they’re coming from, and nothing is going to happen.”

Clifford Ricardo Joseph was born on June 23, 1922, in Panama City to a large Caribbean family. His father, Samuel, worked on the construction of the Panama Canal, and his mother, Leontine (Ellis) Joseph, was a maid. When he was 18 months old, his family settled in Harlem.

Cliff’s older brother, Freddy, aspired to become a police officer; the same day he was admitted into the academy, he was fatally shot by a man in his apartment building. To support his family, Mr. Joseph enlisted in the Army as a teenager. He later served overseas in a field artillery unit.

After World War II, Mr. Joseph studied at Pratt on the G.I. Bill, graduating with a B.F.A. in 1952. While working at a welfare center, he met Ann Voggenthaler, whom he married in the mid-1960s.

A few years after attending the March on Washington with his wife and hearing Dr. King speak, Mr. Joseph mailed Dr. King some Christmas cards he had designed honoring the young girls killed in the Ku Klux Klan bombing of a church in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963. Dr. King sent a letter to Mr. Joseph’s East Village apartment.

“I was deeply impressed and very grateful for your generous gesture,” he wrote. “It was especially gratifying since I have always felt, since I first saw it, that your art expressed the meaning and sacrifice of our struggle.”

In the 1960s, Mr. Joseph helped take care of psychiatric patients at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx, where he befriended Edith Kramer, a prominent art therapist. Ms. Kramer invited him to watch her work with children at the hospital, and Mr. Joseph was moved by what he witnessed. She then brought him to the early meetings of the American Art Therapy Association.

“I got into this room with all these people and I didn’t see anyone that I could recognize as being of my race,” Mr. Joseph said in 2006. “I felt there was some politeness when I was introduced, but I didn’t feel I was being welcomed in.”

The American Art Therapy Association gave Mr. Joseph an award in 2008 acknowledging his commitment to social activism in the field. He was also featured in a documentary, “Wheels of Diversity in Art Therapy: Pioneers of Color,” which profiled several therapists who introduced a multicultural perspective.

In 2001, after years living in the rent-regulated Westbeth Artists Housing complex in the West Village, Mr. Joseph and his wife moved to Chicago, where they later joined the neighborhood protest of a petroleum coke storage facility on the Southeast Side owned by Charles and David Koch. Mr. Joseph also wrote a science-fiction novel, “The Revelation of Number 10: A Galactic Neighbor’s Appeal.”

In addition to his wife, Mr. Joseph is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Clifford Jr. and Leonette Joseph; a brother, Ronald; and three grandchildren. A daughter, Zuri Joseph, died in 2013.

In 2018, Hunter College in New York revisited “Rebuttal to Whitney Museum Exhibition” with an event at its campus gallery. The exhibition remounted works from the original 1971 show, including one of Mr. Joseph’s oil paintings, “The Superman.”

That painting depicts a bloated Klansman holding a rifle and a cross standing in front of a Confederate flag. But he is naked, carrying his white robe on his arm, and Mr. Joseph has rendered him spectral and forlorn.





No.18 article:
Indoor Dining May Be Banned Again, Threatening Many N.Y.C. Restaurants

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced a new restrictions model that could end indoor dining in the city as early as next week.

Since the pandemic forced most New York City businesses to shut down nine months ago, the restaurant industry has warned that it was facing a crisis. 

Though many restaurateurs tried to adapt once some of the restrictions were lifted — shifting to takeout and delivery, then moving outside, then cautiously welcoming customers indoors — they say that they are still barely hanging on.

Now, New York City’s restaurants face yet another possible blow. On Monday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, citing the growing spread of the coronavirus, announced a new restrictions model that could halt indoor dining in the city as soon as next week if hospitalization rates do not stabilize — a prospect he said seemed likely. 

The move, which Mr. Cuomo said was spurred by recent federal guidance that described indoor dining as “particularly high-risk,” could further devastate the industry at the same time that plunging temperatures threaten to keep customers away from outdoor dining.

Restaurant owners are warning that the industry, which employs thousands of low-income workers and is vital to the city’s culture, risks even further collapse without some form of aid.

“They’re not going to make it,” said Tren’ness Woods-Black, the vice president of communications at Sylvia’s, the soul food mainstay in Harlem. “That’s the truth of the matter. There are a lot of businesses that simply will not make it. And that’s heartbreaking.”

Mr. Cuomo’s announcement came as the virus has been spreading more rapidly in New York City. According to the state, the city’s seven-day average rate of positive test results last week surpassed 4 percent for the first time since late May. On Sunday, 1,416 people were believed to be hospitalized with the virus, according to state data, the city’s highest total since early June.

Included in the governor’s new plan for restrictions is a “clamp down” on indoor dining in any region where hospitalization rates do not stabilize for five days. Mr. Cuomo did not provide a specific measure or threshold. His office did not immediately respond to questions seeking more details.

Though restaurants in New York City would be required to end indoor dining, restaurants in other regions where hospitalization rates do not stabilize would have to reduce their indoor dining capacity from 50 percent to 25 percent.

New York is not the only state taking this patchwork approach. In California, where cases are also climbing, shutdown restrictions also vary by region.

Mr. Cuomo echoed calls for federal financial assistance, saying restaurants and bars had faced “a long year and they have bills to pay.” However he did not provide any details about what threshold would need to be met for indoor dining to resume once closed, providing an uncertainty that frustrated the city’s restaurant owners.

“When you cut indoor dining without a plan, it really sends the wrong message to everyone,” said George Constantinou, who owns three restaurants in Brooklyn. “To customers, to employees, and everyone in the industry.”

Mr. Constantinou added that for months, New York City’s 25,000 restaurants had been in a state of constant whiplash as they adapted to shifting public health guidance and government regulations.

“They keep changing the laws on what’s safe, what’s not safe,” he said. “I feel like everyone’s confused.”

In March, when state officials closed all nonessential businesses, many restaurants overhauled their business models — and in some cases, their menus — to try and survive on takeout and delivery alone. The federal Paycheck Protection Program helped provide some relief, but with fewer customers, many employees lost their jobs.

The summer brought some hope with an outdoor dining program, but many restaurants described it as a tenuous lifeline at best that brought them a fraction of their business. Mr. Constantinou also noted that outdoor dining came with financial costs, as restaurants rushed to set up spaces that met the city’s guidelines.

The New York City Hospitality Alliance, an industry group, estimated that fewer than half of the city’s restaurants took part in the program.

Indoor dining only resumed in New York City at the end of September, even as restaurants in other parts of the state were allowed to resume serving customers indoors throughout the summer.

But there were limits. Establishments were held to seating at 25 percent capacity and had to keep their tables spaced at least six feet apart — a significant reduction in potential business, especially at cramped city restaurants where diners used to be packed into tables. 

Still, both Ms. Woods-Black and Mr. Constantinou said that their restaurants welcomed the change at the time, noting that every table helped with the bottom line in a business where, even before the pandemic, profit margins were often tight.

Ms. Woods-Black said that Sylvia’s had started to see more of its business shift indoors as the weather cooled. About 60 percent of its sales from last week were from indoor dining, she said.

The restaurant had only recently started to hire back staff members that it had laid off to accommodate the change in demand. Now it was facing the prospect of dismissing employees again.

“They’re very worried,” she said of her workers. “And we’re worried for them.”

Still, Sylvia’s planned to do whatever it would take to stay open, she said. Until the governor’s order took effect, the restaurant would continue to serve customers indoors.

Mr. Constantinou, who owns Bogota Latin Bistro, Miti Miti Modern Mexican and Medusa Greek Taverna in Park Slope, said that he would spend the next week adjusting his staffing in preparation for the end of indoor dining.

Already, he said, he had been reducing shifts at his restaurants as cooler weather brought fewer customers to his outdoor tables. Over the course of the pandemic, he went from employing more than 150 people to around 80, and he anticipated more cuts would come.

Given the numerous limits placed on indoor dining, he had anticipated that more New Yorkers would choose to eat inside, helping his revenues during what was normally a slower winter season.

“If you have a choice to sit outdoors at 30 degrees or indoors at 25 percent capacity, I would say eight out of 10 people would sit indoors as long as it’s not crowded,” he said. “Because people don’t want to freeze.”

Instead, he faced the prospect that the restaurants he had worked to cautiously reopen, whose atmosphere he had carefully cultivated, would again fall silent.

“The restaurants will be dead again,” he said. “And to have outdoor dining in a dead restaurant — it’s not the vibe you really want to give out.”

Tina Maria Oppedisano, the manager of Il Bacco restaurant in Queens, said an end to indoor dining would be detrimental to her business. 

“He has scared everybody,” she said of Mr. Cuomo. “My business has gone down in the past three weeks. It’s been a tremendous decline because people are scared to come out.”

Though the restaurant has a large rooftop, it’s too cold for customers to sit outdoors. Il Bacco has lost millions of dollars in revenue, and employee shifts were cut to avoid layoffs, Ms. Oppedisano said. 

Ms. Oppedisano has been critical of the governor’s restrictions on New York City restaurants and was part of a group that sued the governor and mayor over restrictions on indoor dining. Il Bacco is just 500 feet away from neighboring Nassau County, where indoor dining would likely not close in the coming days.

Though Ms. Oppedisano said she doubted the governor would go through with pulling the plug on indoor dining next week, she has been looking into third-party delivery apps like Grubhub and debating whether to spend money on heating. 

“As long as we are abiding by all the laws and all the safety precautions,” she said, “I don’t understand why we can’t just conduct our business.”





No.19 article:
Most of California Locks Down Again as Coronavirus Strains Hospitals

As the United States surpassed 15 million cases, California’s situation despite its earlier restrictions was a cautionary tale.

MORAGA, Calif. — Most of California was on lockdown on Monday as two vast regions, Southern California and the heavily agricultural San Joaquin Valley, reached a serious enough shortage of hospital beds to trigger new restrictions set by the state to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

California is averaging 21,000 new known cases a day, twice as many as the state was reporting at its worst point this summer and by far its highest levels of the pandemic.

Some of the underlying reasons for the state’s surge have resonance for the nation as a whole. The notion that a state government could control the movements of 40 million people — a radical idea when California became the first state to introduce a lockdown in March — was perhaps optimistic in a society that puts so much stock in personal liberty.

“What we’ve seen is that those policies were insufficiently strict, or insufficiently enforced, or insufficiently complied with to make a difference with transmission,” said Dr. George Rutherford, an epidemiologist at the University of California, San Francisco.

[Sign up for our California Today newsletter, for the latest from the Golden State.]

As the United States reached 15 million coronavirus cases and neared 300,000 deaths, other states were scrambling to contain the spiraling health crisis. With the daily death reports on Monday, the nation surpassed its highest seven-day average of the pandemic, breaking the average of 2,232 set in April. 

In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Monday announced new criteria for rolling back the state’s reopening and reintroducing shutdown restrictions by region.

The New York State Department of Health will use hospitalization rates as thresholds for a shutdown and for restricting indoor dining, which Mr. Cuomo said could be barred in New York City as soon as Monday. “If you’re going to overwhelm the hospital system, then we have no choice but to go to close down,” he said.

With a stockpile of half a billion face masks and months of relatively strict social distancing mandates, California counted itself among the most aggressive states in combating the coronavirus. Yet the virulence of the pandemic, in which the virus exploits even the slightest missteps, has begun to overwhelm America’s richest and most populous state.

In San Diego, nine of 112 intensive-care beds are unoccupied at a university medical center, illustrating an alarming trend across Southern California. More than 10,000 Covid-19 patients are now hospitalized in the state, more than 70 percent above what it was two weeks ago.

That a state where masks are widely accepted finds itself in such dire straits is confounding to residents, who felt they had a leg up on parts of the country that resisted the advice of public health officials. That the virus soared back is a cautionary tale, a sign that California let down its guard.

“You go from thinking, like, ‘Oh, I don’t know anyone that has it,’ to in the blink of an eye, everyone you know has it, and you have it,” said Janet Rodriguez, a resident of Pico Rivera, outside Los Angeles, who believed she became infected at an outdoor meal with friends.

Over the last few months, even as public health experts and politicians urged people to remain vigilant, not everyone was on board, Dr. Rutherford said. Thanksgiving travel, he said, was a clear example.

“Nationally, usually 2.8 million people travel on Thanksgiving and that was down to one million this year. That’s a million too many. So you can see people are trying, but it’s just not enough.”

Already, he said, an acceleration in cases was being seen from that period.

In California, the overarching story throughout the pandemic has been of a state that by dint of its population has huge numbers of cases. On a per capita basis California has fewer cases than 40 other states, but its overall numbers are jarring: 1.3 million and counting.

Northern California has managed to maintain very low case and death rates compared with other parts of the country. San Francisco has reported 164 coronavirus-related deaths.

But even with per capita case totals in San Francisco that are one-fifth the level of states such as North Dakota or South Dakota, officials in the city are feeling the strain of the current surge. A month ago, the city’s contact tracers, whose job it is to connect with everyone an infected person may have come into contact with, were reaching 90 percent of contacts. Now, they are calling closer to 70 percent.

And because California has fewer hospital beds per capita than all but two states, it takes less to overwhelm the state’s health infrastructure.

Even before the new restrictions came into effect in parts of the state on Monday, counties in the San Francisco Bay Area announced last week that they would voluntarily take on the new limits.

The restrictions require closing indoor dining, playgrounds, hair and nail salons, zoos and wineries. The relatively few schools with in-person classes are allowed to stay open, and shopping centers and supermarkets can receive customers but must operate at no more than 20 percent and 35 percent capacity, respectively.

“It’s easy to say a lockdown’s the right thing to do, but the lockdown is going to affect personal care salons, retails down to 20 percent, zoos are closed,” said Dr. Chris Longhurst, the associate chief medical officer at the University of California, San Diego, Medical Center, where 8 percent of intensive-care beds remain available. “Will that make a difference? It’s hard to know for sure.”

On Monday, Gov. Gavin Newsom said the state was rolling out a new app, developed in partnership with Google and Apple, aimed at helping track and slow the spread in the state. The app allows those who choose to take part to be notified if they have potentially been exposed to someone who has tested positive for the coronavirus.

Other parts of the world have used such technology to track the virus, but critics suggested that the California effort was limited, coming months into the pandemic and being offered on only an optional basis, to residents who choose to take part.

Mr. Newsom and other California leaders have often said that the fate of the virus depends on individual decision-making.

For Ms. Rodriguez, the Pico Rivera resident, her habits shifted as the months wore on, she said. As California locked down early on, in March, she was exceedingly cautious and stopped seeing her friends and extended family, she said.

But as months passed, Ms. Rodriguez became restless. She started taking outdoor trips she thought were harmless: hiking with her friends while wearing a mask and riding her bike to visit her older sister’s family on their porch.

“Slowly we started feeling more comfortable to be around each other,” Ms. Rodriguez said. “A narrative I would keep telling myself is that I don’t know anyone who has gotten sick.”

Her social group — friends she would spend time around without masks — gradually ballooned to 10. And on her 28th birthday, in November, Ms. Rodriguez went out to lunch with three friends, including one who had received a negative test result that day.

But the friend later tested positive, Ms. Rodriguez said, and soon Ms. Rodriguez was experiencing headaches and had lost her senses of smell and taste.

Ms. Rodriguez tested positive, as did Ms. Rodriguez’s father, who is diabetic. Both have mostly recovered although Ms. Rodriguez still struggles to taste food.

For Ms. Rodriguez, it was apparently a meal at a restaurant. Others have pointed to other sources of their infections: trips to the gym, work at food-processing plants, family gatherings.

Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, the vice dean for population health and health equity at the School of Medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, described an impulse to “play the blame game” and figure out distinct sources of spread. But she said doing so was not particularly productive right now.

“We don’t have the data to pinpoint with any type of accuracy whether it’s this versus that,” Dr. Bibbins-Domingo said. “It also misses the point that once the transmission goes up as high as it is, we basically just have to lock down.”





No.20 article:
The Places That Had the Biggest Swings Toward and Against Trump

Education was a key dividing line, but other things mattered, too.

With most of the slow-to-report votes tallied, we finally have a clearer picture of last month’s presidential results. Despite the high polarization in the country that carried over to the reaction to the results — with 70 percent to 80 percent of Republicans still saying they disbelieve that Joe Biden won — in some respects the vote itself was less polarized than in 2016.

Compared with 2016, in 2020 there was less difference by race or ethnicity, and urban areas and suburban areas voted more alike. But the economic and education partisan divides widened. Mr. Biden gained in well-educated suburbs and exurbs, often in places that have tended to vote Republican in recent decades, like the Atlanta, Dallas and Phoenix areas.

In addition to these broad patterns, some specific shifts reflected local political loyalties.

As of Monday, reporting was complete enough to look closely at nearly all individual counties and metropolitan areas (which consist of one or more counties). Though some important patterns may show up only in more fine-grained precinct or individual survey data, counties make it easy to compare the entire country, over time, though many lenses.

These near-final county totals confirm a few patterns in the 2020 vote.

For all the ways that this election broke with precedent, the county-level vote pattern in 2020 was overwhelmingly similar to that in 2016. The correlation between counties’ vote margins for President Trump in 2016 and 2020 was 0.99. (A correlation of 1 represents a perfect relationship, and 0 represents no relationship.)

Strikingly, the vote was slightly less polarized than in 2016, breaking a pattern of increasing geographic polarization in the 2000s. The standard deviation measures how much an individual county’s vote typically deviated from the national average; this measure was a bit lower in 2020 after rising steadily from 2000 to 2016.

Furthermore, this year the vote in many counties was a small shift toward the center. The bigger that Mr. Trump’s victory was in 2016 in a given county, the more ground Mr. Biden picked up in 2020 relative to Hillary Clinton in 2016. In counties that voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, the 2020 margin shifted 3.2 percentage points toward Mr. Biden, versus a 1.9-point shift toward Mr. Biden in counties that voted for Mrs. Clinton in 2016.

Among metropolitan areas with a population over 250,000, three Colorado metros — fast-growing Colorado Springs, Denver and Fort Collins — topped the list for swings against Mr. Trump in two-party vote share. Colorado has one of the nation’s highest rates of people with a four-year college degree, and this year it solidified its status as a blue state. Colorado’s shift against Mr. Trump was 8.6 points, second only to Vermont’s nine points.

A part of conservative-leaning Kentucky posted one of the bigger anti-Trump shifts. The Lexington-Fayette, Ky., metropolitan area, which flipped from red to blue and is home to the University of Kentucky, has the highest percentage of college graduates in the region, and is in the top fifth of metros for college attainment.

And what about the big swing in the Huntsville area in deep-red Alabama? Fast-growing places with brighter economic prospects — correlated with a higher number of people with college degrees and more jobs in professional, tech and creative fields — moved toward Mr. Biden. A highly educated work force in Huntsville, first put to use in industries like aerospace, has become attractive to other businesses in recent years.

Suburban areas in Nebraska swung significantly toward Mr. Biden. Nebraska’s Second Congressional District, which includes well-educated Omaha, contributed one electoral vote to Mr. Biden’s tally. It “swung against Trump more than any swing state,” according to Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report. The swing was 8.8 points, as the district flipped from red to blue.

Most metro areas swung Democratic, but the most extreme swings were toward Mr. Trump, and the biggest of those were in heavily Hispanic metros, like Miami and areas along the Texas border.

Initially it appeared that President Trump’s strength in 2020 relative to 2016 in heavily Hispanic counties might have been specific to South Florida and Texas border areas, despite the very different national origins and identities in those two regions. But data from later-reporting counties points to a national trend.

The correlation between a county’s percent Hispanic population and its swing toward Trump was 0.41. Even excluding Miami-Dade County and all of Texas, the correlation is still 0.30. The Bronx, Los Angeles, Osceola County near Orlando, and Hudson and Passaic Counties in Northern New Jersey are all at least 40 percent Hispanic and swung toward Mr. Trump by at least five percentage points.

Biden’s gains were largest in suburban areas, as was immediately apparent after the election. But because many urban counties have been among the slowest to report their votes, the picture in these counties has become clear only recently.

President Trump did better in 2020 than 2016 not only in Miami-Dade, Los Angeles and the Bronx, but also in Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, and the counties encompassing the cities of Chicago, Philadelphia, San Jose and San Francisco.

Though urban counties remain overwhelmingly Democratic, Mr. Trump’s margin improved by 1.1 percentage points in these counties — an even bigger pickup than Trump achieved in non-metropolitan counties, which are largely rural. Thus, the urban-suburban divide narrowed in 2020 — and the urban-rural divide did as well.

Some regional and local patterns offer other possible explanations for 2020 swings.

Home-state loyalties. Arkansas is one of only a half-dozen states that swung toward Mr. Trump. It’s possible that Mrs. Clinton benefited in 2016 from some residual good feeling in the state based on her decade-long term as first lady of Arkansas — something that Mr. Biden couldn’t compensate for. (The Fort Smith, Ark., area was among the top 25 metro areas that swung toward Mr. Trump.)

On the other hand, Mr. Biden appeared to receive a home-state bonus in Delaware, which had the third-biggest swing against Mr. Trump of any state.

New Castle County, with Wilmington as its county seat, moved almost eight points toward Mr. Biden. Why did the Salisbury, Md., metro area have such a big swing against Mr. Trump? One possible reason is that a little more than half of the population of the metro area is across the state border, in Sussex County in Delaware.

Religion. Mr. Trump enjoyed big gains in the Utah metros of Provo-Orem and Ogden-Clearfield, but much of it can be explained by the drop in third-party voting. Evan McMullin won 21.5 percent of the vote in his home state in 2016, but he didn’t run this year. Utah, the home of a large Mormon population, had the largest decline in third-party vote share in the nation.

There were sizable swings toward Mr. Trump in areas with high percentages of Orthodox Jews, like Rockland County, N.Y., and parts of Brooklyn — perhaps because many Orthodox Jews were angered by coronavirus-related restrictions.

Military presence. Over all, Mr. Biden performed well relative to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 showing in the Northeast, particularly in smaller metro areas, like in upstate New York and in places like Portland, Maine, and Norwich-New London in Connecticut. Connecticut and Maine each moved about six points toward the Democratic ticket.

But there’s another possible reason for the swing in Norwich-New London. New London County; the Bremerton, Wash., area; the Virginia Beach metro; and Colorado Springs (home of the Air Force Academy) have military bases and a fair share of military veterans. Counties classified as military posts by the American Communities Project swung by around six points against Mr. Trump, still voting for him in 2020 over all but by a smaller margin than in 2016.

Some of the correlations are hard to untangle. What we do know more clearly is that there has been about a 2.4-point swing nationwide toward Mr. Biden relative to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 showing, and a similarly modest swing in many of the critical battleground states. But even modest shifts in a roughly evenly divided nation can be decisive.





No.21 article:
How New York City Plans to Keep Children Safe as Schools Reopen

There will likely be more closures of individual school buildings as the amount of testing increases.

On Monday, New York City will reopen some of its public schools in the teeth of a worsening coronavirus outbreak.

The decision to do so reflects changing public health thinking around the importance of keeping schools operating, particularly for young students, and the real-world experience of over two months of in-person classes in the city’s school system, the nation’s largest.

Yet the whiplash many New York City students, parents and teachers felt — from a full shutdown before Thanksgiving to a partial reopening less than three weeks later — is not likely to abate as the fall turns to winter.

Mayor Bill de Blasio has committed himself to keeping schools open, his aides say, and has started with elementary schools and those for students with severe disabilities. (About 190,000 children in the grades and schools the city is reopening this week would be eligible.)

But the city’s rules for handling positive cases all but guarantee frequent and sudden closures of individual classrooms and school buildings.

And it remains unclear whether the city will be able to reopen its middle and high schools to in-person learning any time soon.

While the road ahead will be rocky, top public health officials in the city expressed confidence that public schools would remain islands of relative safety even as the number of coronavirus cases in New York City reaches levels not seen since the devastation of the spring.

Before the school year began, the city set a purposefully low threshold for shutting school buildings in the event that students, teachers or staff tested positive: two cases in different parts of the same school building, without a clear link, close the building for two weeks.

That threshold resulted in frequent closures throughout the fall.

The city closed 27 school buildings for two weeks on Nov. 15 — the most in a single day — just days before Mr. de Blasio ordered the citywide shutdown.

And because new positive tests kept coming in, the city actually reached its highest level of virus closures almost a week after — 163 school buildings. (City officials said they were tracking cases in 1,400 buildings run by the Education Department and about 2,000 community-run early childhood sites.)

The citywide shutdown provided enough time for most to reopen. But many will likely close again.

That’s because the central part of the reopening plan is more frequent random testing — weekly rather than monthly. With the virus spreading in all communities of the city, more positive tests are likely.

It was already happening. The positive test rate from random testing in city schools increased from 0.17 percent in mid-October to 0.28 percent in November, according to city data.

Some public health experts have pushed for a less stringent threshold, to avoid frequent individual school closures.

But for Michael Mulgrew, the president of the teachers union, the frequent closures are a key part of why schools have remained safe. “This has worked,” he said. “It worked because we never had a spread in any school.”

Mr. de Blasio closed the schools because the city as a whole had hit a 3 percent positive test rate — a threshold that he had set as an upper limit for keeping them open.

But once that level had been exceeded, Mr. de Blasio and his top aides decided reopening would be based not on a citywide test positivity rate, but on the ability of the city to conduct weekly testing of school communities.

They worried that rules set by the state for rolling back business reopenings and restricting activities — the system of yellow, orange and red zones — would mean that even if the city reopened schools, they could close again soon. But the state provided an exception for schools: the shift to weekly testing.

“We wanted to make sure that we weren’t going to be opening and closing,” said Dean Fuleihan, the first deputy mayor. The city, he said, wanted “to have a testing regimen strong enough that we would meet any state standard in the orange and red zone whenever those would happen.”

Officials scrambled — remotely and from offices inside City Hall — to figure out the numbers needed to randomly test students and staff each week across hundreds of schools.

It was not enough to test every school.

“We didn’t have the capacity to do the entire system weekly,” said Kayla Arslanian, Mr. de Blasio’s deputy chief of staff, who has been focused on coronavirus testing. “We are building to get there.”

It was a question not of lab capacity but of finding enough trained staff members to collect samples. The city needed teams of two to four people to go from school to school.

Jeff Thamkittikasem, director of the mayor’s office of operations, said the city had nearly doubled the number of such teams — from 65 to 125 — and could conduct as many as 8,000 tests in schools each day, up from about 4,100 during the initial school testing program.

One thing could be safely jettisoned, officials and public health experts believed: the 3 percent positivity threshold used to close the schools in the first place.

“The 3 percent was quite arbitrary,” said Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, an epidemiologist at Columbia University.

The coronavirus appears to spread less readily in schools, particularly elementary schools, she said. “We know that children appear less likely to be infected, have milder symptoms or get sick and have bad consequences with Covid-19,” she said.

City officials reached the same conclusions.

Mr. de Blasio had settled upon the 3 percent threshold before the start of the school year as a way of showing how seriously the city would take safety in schools. Reaching that number seemed far-off when the citywide test positivity rate hovered around 1 percent during the summer. And there was uncertainty.

“We felt at that time that we didn’t have absolute evidence about how safe we could make the schools or how safe other places could make them,” said Dr. Jay Varma, a senior adviser to Mr. de Blasio on public health.

Now, he said, city officials are much more confident in the safety of schools. “It’s taken a lot of learning by doing,” he said.

The move to quickly reopen elementary schools reflects a change in thinking among public health experts, who now advise trying to keep schools open during an outbreak, particularly for young students.

Reopening would require changes, New York City officials decided, but not too many.

Something was working to keep the virus from spreading inside public schools, the city’s top public health officials came to believe. Data from thousands of random tests inside schools increasingly convinced them of that.

But even months into the pandemic, city officials could not say with confidence which parts of their approach — social distancing in classrooms, improved ventilation or hundreds of school-by-school closures — were critically necessary, and which could be changed.

“I don’t know for sure which components of our program could be relaxed and produce the exact same outcomes,” Dr. Varma said.

So they have kept almost all of them in place.

When elementary school students return on Monday, classrooms will operate as they did before.

The biggest changes will be the increased chance of being tested randomly — all parents must consent to have their children tested at school — and the possibility of attending five days a week.

One thing that could hamper the city’s efforts, officials cautioned, is a truly rampant second wave in New York.

The test positivity rate has only increased since the city closed schools and the seven-day rolling average rate exceeded 5 percent last week. The weekly average for new cases recently topped 1,900. Hospitalizations have quickly mounted.

City Hall did not create a new threshold for citywide closure. State rules currently require schools to close across an entire region if the seven-day test positivity rate in that region reaches 9 percent — a level that grows nearer in New York City each day.

State officials did not respond to a request for comment on whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo would stick to that element of his plan. The state is in the process of updating its metrics as the number of cases skyrocket.

“The doctors are telling us that this is going to work,” said Mr. Mulgrew of the current approach. But, he added, events could change the calculation: “Look, if we’re at 12 percent, we’ve got a problem.”





No.22 article:
The Stimulus Compromise Is $908 Billion Better Than Nothing

The Senate’s plan is flawed. Doing nothing would be much worse.

Americans urgently need Congress to deliver a fresh round of economic aid. Millions of people who lost jobs in the spring are reaching the end of their unemployment benefits. Many have fallen behind on rent or mortgage payments. Many do not have enough to eat.

A wave of good news about vaccines offers reason for hope that the coronavirus pandemic will loosen its grip next year and that economic growth will accelerate. That makes it all the more important to build a bridge allowing people to get through the winter months.

It is heartening that legislative leaders in both parties say they want a deal before heading home for the holidays. A $908 billion proposal advanced by a bipartisan group of senators offers a reasonable starting point. It’s not enough money, but Republicans are refusing to do more, and Democratic leaders have concluded that some aid is better than nothing.

President Trump now appears to have lost interest in leading the country. But President-elect Joe Biden has stepped into the void, repeatedly urging the necessity of an aid deal and rightly arguing that Congress can do more next year.

“It’s just the start,” Mr. Biden said on Friday. “Congress will need to act again in January.”

The need for aid has been obscured to some extent by the rise of the stock market and by seven consecutive months of job growth. But stocks are owned mostly by the wealthy, and the jobs gains need to be placed in the context of the enormous job losses in the early months of the pandemic. Even after those months of job growth, the share of Americans who have lost jobs and have not found new ones is greater than in any other year since World War II.

We are climbing out of a hole so deep that we’re still farther down than we’ve been before.

Nor is it sufficient to rely on coronavirus vaccinations to revive economic growth. Bringing the pandemic under control is a necessary precondition for recovery, but it won’t happen soon enough to protect millions of workers and businesses from experiencing deep damage to their fortunes. Some of that damage, like the closure of a business or the loss of a home, may not easily be reversed even once it is safe for people to return to something like normal life.

In the early months of the pandemic, the government took strong and effective action to limit the economic fallout, pumping trillions of dollars into the economy. But the flow of aid has been dwindling since the summer, and several programs are on the verge of ending.

About 12 million Americans are currently receiving federal unemployment benefits under pandemic programs that are scheduled to expire at the end of the year. The federal government is sending weekly checks to roughly 7.3 million freelance and contract workers who are not eligible for standard state unemployment benefits. It also is sending checks to 4.6 million workers who have exhausted their eligibility for state benefits.

In normal times, cutting off benefits is intended to encourage people to look for work. In the midst of a pandemic, with few jobs available and public health authorities urging people to stay home, that amounts to mindless cruelty.

The end of a patchwork of restrictions on evictions and foreclosures threatens to expose millions of families to eviction. According to the Census Bureau, 6 percent of homeowners and 16 percent of renters reported in mid-November that they were behind on their rent or mortgage payments.

Businesses also need help, particularly as state and local governments impose a new round of restrictions. The number of small businesses nationwide was 29 percent lower in November than at the beginning of the year, according to Harvard’s Opportunity Insights project. Without federal aid, many more restaurants and stores simply will not survive.

The consequences extend beyond a few months of pain. Rebuilding is much harder than preserving. As businesses close, there are fewer jobs for workers to reclaim. Workers who lose their homes may be forced to move — away from former jobs, schools, communities.

It is worth emphasizing that there is no substitute for congressional action. State and local governments lack the resources; unlike the federal government, they cannot run deficits.

The Federal Reserve is engaged in a wide-ranging effort to support the economy by making it cheap and easy to borrow money, but the painfully slow pace of recovery following the last recession provided an object lesson in the limits of relying on low interest rates.

Investors are eager to lend money to the federal government, and borrowing costs are low. Those raising concerns about future interest payments on federal debt tend to compare the burden with the present size of the American economy. But as the economists Jason Furman and Lawrence Summers argue in a new paper, it makes more sense to compare future payments against future economic output, and by that measure, the burden looks a lot less scary. There’s no guarantee of future growth, of course, but that’s the point: Invest in economic recovery now, and the nation’s debts will be easier to pay tomorrow.

The compromise now on the table is flawed. It does not provide enough help for state and local governments or for workers. In addition to providing necessary financial help for businesses, it includes a twisted provision providing special legal protections to businesses that fail to protect their workers. But there is no obvious benefit in turning it down.

Millions of Americans are suffering. The situation is deteriorating. Send money now.





No.23 article:
‘Nobody Sees Us’: Testing-Lab Workers Strain Under Demand

In March, April Abbott dragged a hospital bed into her office at Deaconess Hospital in Evansville, Ind. In the nine months since, she has slept in it a half-dozen times while working overnight in her clinical microbiology laboratory, where a team of some 40 scientists toils around the clock running coronavirus tests.

These all-night stints in the lab pull Dr. Abbott, the director of microbiology at Deaconess, away from her husband and three children, the oldest of whom is 8. A couple of times a week, she heads home for dinner, then drives back to work after the kids have gone to bed. She is at the lab when machines break. She is there to vet testing protocols for the lab. She is there when new testing sites open, flooding the lab with more samples to process.

“I do it because there is always more work to be done than the hours to do it in,” she said.

Nearly a year into a pandemic that has claimed more than 276,000 American lives, some 193 million tests for the coronavirus have been processed nationwide. Millions more will be needed to detect and contain the virus in the months ahead. Behind these staggering figures are thousands of scientists who have been working nonstop to identify the coronavirus in the people it infects.

Across the nation, testing teams are grappling with burnout, repetitive-stress injuries and an overwhelming sense of doom. As supply chains sputter and laboratories rush to keep pace with diagnostic demand, experts warn that the most severe shortage stymieing America’s capacity to test is not one that can be solved by a wider production line or a more efficient machine. It is a dearth of human power: the dwindling ranks in a field that much of the public does not know even exists.

When shortages arise, “there’s workarounds for almost everything else,” said Karissa Culbreath, the medical director and infectious disease division chief at TriCore Reference Laboratories in New Mexico. “But people are irreplaceable.”

In the absence of trained workers to process and analyze the nation’s tests, America’s diagnostic infrastructure will not merely wrinkle and slow, experts said. It will collapse.

“Doctors and nurses are very visible, but we work behind the scenes,” said Marissa Larson, a medical laboratory scientist supervisor at the University of Kansas Health System. “And we are underwater.”

The gold standard in coronavirus diagnostics hinges on a decades-old laboratory method called polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R. The method is a signal amplifier: It can copy genetic material, including fragments of the genome of the coronavirus, over and over until it reaches detectable levels, making the virus discoverable even when it is extremely scarce in the body. P.C.R. is the metric against which all new testing techniques are compared; in the diagnostic landscape, few can match its ability to root out infection.

But such accuracy comes at a cost. Even highly automated forms of P.C.R. require people to handle tubes, babysit machines and scrutinize ambiguous results.

P.C.R.-based coronavirus tests also deal in DNA, the molecular language in which the human genome is written. The coronavirus, however, stores its genetic information in a close cousin called RNA, which must first be carefully extracted from virus particles, then converted to its more testable counterpart before diagnostics can proceed.

When laboratories are well stocked, P.C.R. diagnostics can run from start to finish in just a few hours. But since the spring, laboratories around the country have been hamstrung by severe, often unpredictable shortages of chemicals and plasticware needed for these protocols. 

And caseloads have skyrocketed; America’s testing capacity has increased since March, but it has been vastly overtaken by the demand for tests.

“The spring pales in comparison to what we are experiencing now,” said Dr. Culbreath, of TriCore, which has run more than 600,000 coronavirus tests.

Amid the pandemonium, labs must still work through their queues for other infectious disease tests, including for sexually transmitted infections. “Labs are trying to maintain our standard of operation with everything else, with a pandemic on top of it,” Dr. Culbreath said.

Darcy Velasquez, a medical technologist at Children’s Hospital Colorado in Aurora, where cases continue to surge, is fighting to keep pace with some of her institution’s highest sample volumes yet. Her shifts in the lab begin at 5:30 a.m., sometimes to a double-door refrigerator already brimming with 500 tubes, each containing a fresh patient swab and a small volume of liquid — more than a full day’s work for one person.

Ms. Velasquez typically spends the first couple hours of her day frantically trying to clear as much of the backlog as she can before another batch arrives around 8 a.m., when the local clinic opens.

As much as an hour of that time might be spent simply de-swabbing samples: manually unscrewing and rescrewing caps and plucking out swabs, all without contaminating one sample with the contents of another.

“Sometimes you walk into these refrigerators full of specimens and you think, ‘I don’t even know where to start,’” Ms. Velasquez said.

At Georgia’s state public health laboratory, direct handling of patient samples must be done with extra safeguards to minimize the chances of exposing personnel to infectious virus. Taylor Smith, a virologist and technologist at the lab, spends a large fraction of her workday in a full-body gown, sleeve covers, two pairs of gloves, an N95 respirator and goggles.

Simply donning it all is exhausting. And although Ms. Smith has long been deft with lab instruments, the work always feels high-stakes, she said: “You’re constantly thinking about how to not contaminate yourself.”

To keep their experiments running, lab workers must be proficient mechanics. The instruments needed for diagnostic tests were not built to run continuously for months on end. But as more facilities transition to 24/7 testing, malfunctions and breakdowns have become more common, requiring people to fix them.

Tyler Murray, a clinical laboratory scientist at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, spends his days listening for telltale alarms — a sign that one of his instruments has failed or is low on chemical ingredients.

“I make sure I talk nicely to them,” Mr. Murray said of the lab’s machines, which he decorates with gleaming gold stars when they perform at their best. “I say, ‘Hey bud, you worked hard this week, I’m proud of you.’”

But morale is low among the humans. After 10-hour shifts at U.T.M.B., Mr. Murray heads home and lies on the floor beside his two cats, Arya and Cleo. “The fatigue builds,” he said. “You can’t help but feel it.”

The monotonous motions that lab workers engage in daily take a physical and mental toll. Technologists are nursing repetitive-use injuries, a result of hours of maneuvering tubes and pipettes, which take up and dispense liquids with the press of a plunger. Workers must also be vigilant sanitizers, pausing regularly to swap out soiled gloves, clear their workspaces of plastic debris and scour surfaces with harsh chemicals that leave their clothes freckled with stains.

“We’re accustomed to holding things up in the background,” said Natalie Williams-Bouyer, the director of the division of clinical microbiology at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. “We enjoy doing it because we know we’re helping people.”

But the enduring anonymity of testing labs has begun to splinter some spirits. Elizabeth Stoeppler, a senior medical technologist in the molecular microbiology lab at the University of North Carolina’s School of Medicine, said that an old volleyball injury, which inflamed a tendon in her elbow years ago, had flared up after months of long stints in the lab. A few of her co-workers are wrestling with carpal tunnel syndrome.

The strain has begun to affect Ms. Stoeppler outside of the lab. She bolts awake at 3 a.m., panicked about the previous day’s work. She recently started a prescription medication to improve her chances of getting a full night’s sleep.

“There’s signs everywhere that say, ‘Heroes work here,’” she said of her hospital. She loves her job, she added. “But nobody sees us. We’re just in the basement, or in the back.”

On a good day in a diagnostics lab, the phone might ring only a few times, with messages from clinicians inquiring about samples. But when “things are going poorly, it just rings off the hook,” said Rachael Liesman, the director of clinical microbiology at the University of Kansas Health System, where she frequently clocks 15-hour shifts.

To keep the lab on track, Dr. Liesman has put in some hours running tests herself — a task that is not a part of her normal job description. “It’s very strange to have your director on the bench,” said Ms. Larson, a supervisor in the lab. “When you see that, some flare guns should be going up.”

In mid-November, Dr. Liesman’s lab suffered a three-day stretch during which a supply of chemicals nearly ran dry on a Friday, then a pair of machines failed on Saturday and Sunday.

“We were basically drowning in specimens” by Monday, she said. “I was paged by three different providers while brushing my teeth.”

Morale in the labs has flagged as the country continues to shatter records for caseloads, hospitalizations and deaths. The nation’s testing experts know these statistics better than anyone: They count the numbers themselves, sample by sample. But they are also easy targets of criticism and complaint.

“There is always this undercurrent of, it’s never good enough,” said Dr. Abbott, of Deaconess Hospital in Indiana. “It’s devastating. We’re working as hard as we can.”

Chelsa Ashley, a medical laboratory scientist at Deaconess, aches to be home with her three children, to whom she is a single mother, after 13-hour shifts in the lab. Once there, she struggles to leave her work behind.

“There’s that panicked feeling that I should have stayed to take care of our community samples,” she said. “There’s guilt, when you walk away.”

In the past few months, Ms. Ashley’s children, who are 18, 13 and 10, have had to become substantially more self-sufficient. Shaylan, her youngest, rouses herself from bed at 5:50 a.m. every day to spend a few moments with her mother before she heads off to work.

“Even if it’s only 10 minutes, it’s 10 minutes that we talk,” Ms. Ashley said. “That is one thing that has not changed.”

For some, the tidal wave of stress brought on by the pandemic has proved untenable. Since March, scientists have trickled out of laboratories, leaving chasms of expertise in a field that for years has struggled to recruit fresh talent.

Joanne Bartkus, the former director of the Minnesota Department of Public Health Laboratory, retired from her position in May after a dozen years on the job. She pinned one of the pandemic’s crucial inflection points to March 6, the day President Trump publicly remarked that “anybody that wants a test can get a test.”

“That was when the poop hit the fan,” Dr. Bartkus said. Within about a week, her team went from receiving fewer than a dozen coronavirus testing samples each day to being inundated with roughly 1,000 daily specimens.

It was unlike anything Dr. Bartkus had seen in her years at the institution. In 2009, the year of the H1N1 flu pandemic, Minnesota’s public health laboratory tested about 6,000 patient samples. This spring, it broke that record in a couple of weeks.

Dr. Bartkus, who is 65, had already planned to retire before the year was up. By the time April came, she had hastened her timeline to May: “It didn’t take me long before I said, ‘OK, I’m done with this.’”

In interviews, several scientists noted that they were struggling to fill vacancies in their labs, some that were left open by overwhelmed technologists who had recently quit their jobs. While the need for such workers has grown in recent years, the number of training programs that build these skill sets has dropped.

“Medical technologists are a dying breed,” Ms. Stoeppler, of the University of North Carolina, said.

In Indiana, Dr. Abbott, of Deaconess Hospital, said her team had already performed more than 100,000 tests for the coronavirus. But the most chaotic months are most likely still ahead.

For the first time in nine years, Dr. Abbott is doing hands-on work in the lab to help her staff cope with rising demand. She has yet to take more than a day off at a time since the pandemic’s start, but insists that she can soldier on: “This is out of the sheer will of not wanting to be beaten by this pandemic.”

In the mini-refrigerator in her office, next to rotating bags of salad greens and a small cavalry of Diet Cokes, sits an unopened bottle of champagne that she purchased in March, intending to uncork it upon reaching a worthy testing milestone. Nothing has yet felt like enough.

“I can’t tell you what will feel like a reason to celebrate at this point,” Dr. Abbott said. “Ask me after the next 100,000 tests.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.24 article:
In Poland, Protests Over Abortion Ban Could Revolutionize Politics

The government’s conservative social policies, closely tied to the Catholic Church, have met with a backlash from women hoping to change a political culture that developed after Communism fell.

Women have been at the heart of a protest movement that has grown and battled on Poland’s streets since October, sparked by a court decision to ban most abortions. But this was never just a one-issue protest. Something deeper is going on, and it has been building for years.

Hundreds of thousands of women, teenagers and their male allies have been turning out every few days on the streets of cities and small towns across the country for weeks, braving tear gas, court orders, harsh police tactics and surging Covid infections.

Ask them why, and many will say that an uprising felt inevitable.

“There is pressure to go to every single protest, even if you are totally exhausted and you don’t have energy to work, to go to school,” said Zoe Ślusarczyk, from Warsaw, who at 15 is a member of a newly active younger generation that has flocked to the protests and shocked the government.

What is underway in Poland is a forceful renegotiation of the foundations of government power, and the back-room deals, almost exclusively among men, that built them. Women’s demands for reproductive freedom and their calls for greater equality threaten to upend a power structure that has held since the fall of Communism.

Such disruptions have been seen globally in the wake of the #MeToo movement, which has toppled many powerful men, but none have gone to the heart of politics as directly as in Poland. Gender equality would disrupt a political arrangement in the country that has been set for decades: a symbiotic relationship in which the Catholic Church lends its authority to politicians in exchange for the government’s enforcing ecclesiastical morality, including by restricting abortion.

That arrangement now seems to many like a failed bargain with an institution that has been found lacking, after revelations that the church, when it was led by Pope John Paul II, Poland’s favorite son, had protected pedophile priests in Poland and other countries.  The Polish Catholic church declined to comment for this article, but referred the Times to previous statements on the sanctity of life and protection of children.

And the church’s claim to be the defender of Polish democracy, won by supporting the Solidarity movement against Communism in the 1980s, has been undermined by its embrace of the governing Law and Justice party, which has dismantled liberal institutions and promoted xenophobic and authoritarian policies.

Most scholars of political transitions will tell you that successful transformations have one thing in common: Their leaders do not allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good.

Poland’s transition to democracy, and the compromises that were made, was no exception. After the fall of Communism in 1989, the Catholic church gave crucial support to the pro-democracy movement. But while that enabled a smoother transition to democracy than in many other post-Communist countries, it left the church deeply embedded in politics and able to insist that the new government legislate the church’s position on social issues.

One of the Church’s main priorities was a law restricting abortion, which had been widely available in the Communist era.

The resulting 1993 abortion law was “like a contract between politicians and bishops,” said Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a leftist member of Parliament known for her investigations of child sexual abuse within the church. The law came with some exceptions: it allowed abortions in the case of rape or incest, danger to the life of the mother, or fetal abnormality.

But there was no hiding the fact that women had more reproductive freedom under Communist rule than they did in the new democracy.

“It was not a compromise for modern society, for women,” said Danuta Huebner, a Polish member of the European Parliament. “Emotionally, this thing was never solved.”

Subsequent governments have struck similar bargains over issues like Poland’s membership in the European Union. And in 2015, the Law and Justice Party, led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, swept to power with a pitch to voters that combined economic generosity and disgruntled nationalism with Catholic social conservatism. The party’s presidential candidate, Andrzej Duda, won re-election this year.

But women have gained economic and social power even as the far-right government pushes to preserve traditional gender roles that remain popular with voters, both men and women, in many rural areas. According to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the gender wage gap for median earners in Poland is only 10 percent, one of the smallest differentials among the group’s countries. Forty-three percent of young women earn university degrees, compared with only 29 percent of young men. When Poland joined the European Union, that brought new opportunities to work and travel in more secular countries.

Many Polish women, especially in the cities, empowered in other areas of their lives have become less willing to embrace a church that excludes them from positions of power and authority — or a political system that gives that church power over their lives.

“I think, I feel, I decide,” a signature slogan of the protests, has been chanted in streets and squares across the country during weeks of demonstrations.

Mr. Kaczynski says the Catholic church is fundamentally interwoven with the Polish nation, and Polishness itself. And that has meant embracing its values.

Party leaders have claimed that homosexuality is a threat to the soul of the nation, and that the secular values of the European Union are incompatible with Polish life.

Ms. Ślusarczyk, the high schooler from Warsaw, said she fears those who believe in that vision of Polishness, and believes that many hate her for not conforming to it.

“If I go out of the house and I see someone wearing a shirt with a Polish flag or a national symbol or a symbol of the independence day, I feel afraid,” she said. “Because of the way the country is divided, it’s always ‘us’ and ‘them.’”

No issue has provoked open conflict between those factions like abortion. In 2016, Law and Justice tried to pass a law outlawing abortion in the case of fetal abnormality, which accounts for more than 80 percent of the procedures performed each year, but failed after large protests erupted.

The government then turned to the constitutional court, which was packed with party loyalists, and asked for the same restrictions on constitutional grounds.

When the court issued its decision on Oct. 22, the country exploded in even larger protests.

Even though the government later delayed putting the abortion law into effect, the protests have continued, with expectations high that it will eventually be pushed through.

Anna Jakubowska, 40, a businesswoman from Warsaw, kept returning to one word when trying to explain what had moved her and so many other women to protest: anger.

“We are very angry,” Ms. Jakubowska said, at politicians who legislate that women must give birth to severely disabled children but fail to support them as parents, and at fathers and grandfathers who wave away the trauma of unwanted pregnancy. Above all, she said, she was angry at the power afforded to the church even though it excludes women from its hierarchy.

Last year, the documentary “Tell No One” drew widespread public attention for the first time to the Polish church’s history of protecting priests who had raped and molested children for years.

A poll last year by IBRiS research found that fewer than 40 percent of Poles trusted the church, down from 58 percent in 2016.

For Ms. Jakubowska, the contrast between the standards the church wanted to impose upon women and the standard to which it held its own clergy was too much to bear.

“The Bible says if you are the sinner you have to pay the consequences,” she said, “But there are no consequences.”

She added, “That’s why women come to the street.”

In most countries, angry teens shouting at an authority figure would be a dog-bites-man story. But when a video appeared of young women screaming obscenities at a priest in the northwestern town of Szczecinek in late October, it went viral.

The Szczecinek confrontation “beautifully illustrates the generation that has rejected the church’s power,” said Carolin Heilig, a doctoral researcher at the University of London who studies civil society, gender and protest in Poland.

Ms. Huebner, the member of the European Parliament, said that for young Poles, “this discontent has been brewing for a long time.”

“The church having this impact on the ruling party, this relation of host-parasite that exists in Poland, people do not approve of it anymore,” she said.

Poland’s protests have been disruptive, but their outcome remains uncertain. Change can be frightening, even for those who disapprove of the symbiosis between church and state. Unraveling that entanglement will also touch on personal relationships, religious faith, career decisions; for many, that prospect is too daunting.

“The crucial thing is to talk about it,” Ms. Ślusarczyk said. “For example, to grandmas and fathers, people who don’t get it because they never were taught to get it.”

But Ms. Jakubowska believes that change is inevitable.

“Even girls in small towns, even if they are still under the rule of men — because they are — they are changing,” she said. “In a few years there will be a great change because the church will be empty.”

Anatol Magdziarz contributed reporting from Warsaw.

Advertisement





No.25 article:
Archaeologists Could Help Bring Otters Back From the Dead

The sea mammals vanished from Oregon’s coast long ago, but a technique from human archaeology offers a clue to restoring them.

From 1969 to 1971, the United States was testing nuclear weapons beneath one of Alaska’s Aleutian Islands, worryingly close to some of the world’s few surviving sea otters. The subterranean explosions prompted conservation managers to carry out a daring plan.

First, they netted some Alaskan sea otters. Then they set 59 free off the coast of Washington State and 93 more near Oregon. This was part rescue mission, part homecoming. Before fur traders hunted them to the brink of extinction, sea otters used to bob and roll up and down North America’s Pacific Coast, gobbling down sea urchins and helping to maintain waving towers of kelp.

In Washington, the transplants took. But within a few years the Oregon otters vanished. “The biggest question is: What happened to Oregon?” said Shawn Larson, a conservation biologist at the Seattle Aquarium, because the answer could inform transplantation efforts.

One hypothesis holds that the otters simply swam off, heading back north. But another explanation, advanced in 2008, suggests that the cold water-adapted Alaskans died out because they were too different from Oregon’s original pre-fur trade otters. Scientists divide sea otters into northern and southern subspecies, each adapted to its own habitat. If the state’s ancient otter inhabitants were more closely related to the southern subspecies, maybe sea otter reintroduction efforts along that stretch of coast should instead work with animals from Californian populations.

A technique borrowed from the science of human archaeology may answer this conservation question. New research published Wednesday in Proceedings of the Royal Society B suggests that the northern subspecies had long settled along the Oregon coast.

“Our recommendations are that actually Alaskan or other northern populations would be appropriate,” said Hannah Wellman, a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Oregon who led the study. The research compiled the most comprehensive genetic data set yet of Oregon’s original sea otters.

To understand which otters had once lived there, the team turned to otter teeth found in two archaeological sites in northern Oregon associated with the Clatsop and Tillamook groups. Their goal was to extract genetic sequences from the specimens.

These otters were hunted or traded well over a thousand years ago, long before European contact and the maritime fur trade, and the results of the analysis show it. “We have a lot more genetic diversity in these two adjacent sites than we do in modern sea otters,” said Courtney Hofman, a molecular anthropologist who extracted ancient DNA from the teeth at the University of Oklahoma.

To complement that finding, the team also reached out to the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. for a few rare sea otter specimens from the waning days of the fur trade when otters became increasingly scarce.

Barred from any analysis that would destroy the samples, the researchers settled on giving those preserved otters the equivalent of a dentist visit. They scraped calculus off the teeth, then carefully extracted the small percentage of otter DNA in that calculus.

Combined with previous studies, genomic sequences from both time periods show that both northern and southern sea otter populations once called Oregon’s coastline home. Perhaps the region was once a genetic way station, allowing interbreeding up and down the Pacific Coast, says Dr. Larson, who did not participate in the current work. And that implies that Alaskan otters can be used for reintroduction programs.

Ms. Wellman says she plans to share her data with the Elakha Alliance, a nonprofit organization supported by the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians and the Coquille Indian Tribe. The group’s goal is to bring back Oregon’s otters — and the towering kelp forests they tend — for good.

This past February, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service funded a feasibility study by the Elakha Alliance, the first in a long series of evaluations and steps that could ultimately bring back Oregon’s sea otters.

Dr. Larson, who is helping write that assessment, says she plans to incorporate the new analysis of Oregon’s past otter diversity. Perhaps reintroductions can bring in both Californian sea otters to the state’s southern shores, and Alaskan otters farther north.

“Then as the populations grow, they’ll merge, and now we’ll have a connected group that is basically continuous from southern Oregon all the way up to Russia,” she said. “Which would be awesome.”





No.26 article:
Trading Box Office for Streaming, but Stars Still Want Their Money

If studios are no longer trying to maximize ticket sales, what will that mean for often lucrative pay packages tied to a film’s performance in theaters?

LOS ANGELES — Last month, Warner Bros. quietly approached Hollywood’s two biggest talent agencies, William Morris Endeavor and Creative Artists. The studio wanted to release the much-anticipated “Wonder Woman 1984” simultaneously in theaters and on the streaming service HBO Max on Christmas Day. And they wanted to get the film’s star, Gal Gadot, and director, Patty Jenkins, on board with the plan.

WME, which counts Ms. Gadot as a client, and CAA, which represents Ms. Jenkins, had a lot of questions, but the biggest involved money: How are you going to pay them?

With “Wonder Woman 1984,” agents argued that Ms. Gadot, Ms. Jenkins and the producer Charles Roven (among others) needed to be paid what they most likely would have received had the sequel been released in a traditional manner (an exclusive run in theaters before arriving online) and not during the height of a pandemic. After all, that was what they signed up for, and Warner Bros. and HBO Max, its corporate sibling, wanted their help in promoting the film, did they not?

After a tense negotiation, Warner Bros., which is owned by AT&amp;T, agreed that Ms. Gadot and Ms. Jenkins would each get more than $10 million, according to two people with knowledge of the deals, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private agreements.

The upshot: Warner Bros. kept crucial talent and their powerful representatives on its side.

Last week, when Jason Kilar, WarnerMedia’s chief executive, announced that 17 more Warner Bros. movies would each roll out on HBO Max and in theaters à la “Wonder Woman 1984,” talent was handled in a very different manner. To prevent the news of the 17-movie shift from leaking (and to make the move speedily rather than get mired in the expected blowback), WarnerMedia kept the major agencies and talent management companies in the dark until roughly 90 minutes before issuing a news release. Even some Warner Bros. executives had little warning.

The surprise move left agencies on a war footing. Representatives for major Warner Bros. stars like Denzel Washington, Margot Robbie, Will Smith, Keanu Reeves, Hugh Jackman and Angelina Jolie wanted to know why their clients had been treated in a lesser manner than Ms. Gadot. Talk of a Warner Bros. boycott began circulating inside the Directors Guild of America. A partner at one talent agency spent part of the weekend meeting with litigators. Some people started to angrily refer to the studio as Former Bros.

“For the longest time, Warner Bros. has been known as the best home for talent, and that has been a significant competitive advantage,” Michael Nathanson, a founder of the MoffettNathanson media research firm, said in a phone interview. “With this move, they alienated the very talent they have worked so hard to attract. These aren’t engineers you can just replace.”

The company cited the pandemic as the primary reason for moving the entire 2021 Warner Bros. slate to a hybrid release model, although some films — notably the big-budget “Dune” and “Matrix 4” — are not scheduled to arrive until the fourth quarter, long after vaccines are expected to be deployed.

“Our content is extremely valuable, unless it’s sitting on a shelf not being seen by anyone,” Mr. Kilar said in the news release. “We believe this approach serves our fans, supports exhibitors and filmmakers, and enhances the HBO Max experience, creating value for all.”

The 97-year-old studio, the ancestral home of Humphrey Bogart (“Casablanca”) and Bette Davis (“Now, Voyager”), suddenly finds itself at the uncomfortable center of a Hollywood that is changing at light speed. Even before the pandemic, streaming services like Netflix, Apple TV+ and Amazon Prime Video were upending how movies get seen and their creators are compensated. Now, with theaters struggling because of the coronavirus and the public largely stuck at home, even traditional film companies are being forced to evolve.

It’s not that all actors and directors are against streaming. Plenty of big names are making movies for Netflix. But last week’s move by Warner Bros. raised fundamental financial questions. If old-line studios are no longer trying to maximize the box office for each film but instead shifting to a hybrid model where success is judged partly by ticket sales and partly by the number of streaming subscriptions sold, what does that mean for talent pay packages?

How studios compensate A-list actors, directors, writers and producers is complicated, with contracts negotiated film by film and person by person. But it boils down to two checks. One is guaranteed (a large upfront fee) and one is a gamble: a portion of ticket sales after the studio has recouped its costs.

If a film flops, the second payday never comes. If a film is a hit, as is often the case with superheroes and other fantasy stories, the “back end” pay can add up to wheelbarrows full of cash. That money trickles down through Hollywood’s financial ecosystem to agents, lawyers and managers — funding Pacific Palisades mansions, the latest Porsche and $1,000-per-person Urasawa dinners.

But are the days of the jackpot back-end payoffs now coming to a close?

“Precedent is being set over the value of talent and what kind of transparency is essential to creating equitable partnerships,” Bryan Lourd, a co-chairman of Creative Artists, said in an email. “We will do everything necessary to make sure artists are fairly compensated for the value they are creating, and that their creative and artistic work and rights are protected.”

William Morris Endeavor declined to comment for this article.

It is unclear whether Warner Bros. has a legal requirement to renegotiate back-end arrangements for the 17 movies, as it did with “Wonder Woman 1984” heavyweights. Mr. Kilar said in a phone interview on Friday that, while these changes might be jarring to those who expected one thing for their movie and were now getting something very different, the end goal was to honor talent relationships as the studio had done in the past.

“The most important statement to make is we endeavor to be generous,” he said. “It has served us well for 97 years, and I think it will serve us well going forward.”

WarnerMedia has called its hybrid movie distribution plan a one-year-only strategy. But most people in Hollywood believe it will prove permanent. Mr. Kilar publicly positioned the move as being all about fans, many of whom have chafed at Hollywood’s traditional rollout of movies (first in theaters for an exclusive period, then online for rental and purchase, then on streaming services and television). He’s just going to take that away in 2022?

Each movie Warner Bros. releases next year will appear on HBO Max for only one month before leaving the service. At that point, films will cycle through the usual release “windows,” leaving theaters when interest has run out and heading to iTunes, DVD and points beyond.

Under the WarnerMedia plan, HBO Max will pay Warner Bros. a licensing fee for the 31-day concurrent rights. The fee will be equal to the studio’s portion of ticket sales in the United States. (Ticket sales are generally split 50-50 between studios and theaters.)

Other factors could influence the fee, including the percentage of theaters that are operating. HBO Max and Warner Bros. also agreed to a floor for these fees: $10 million or 25 percent of the film’s net production cost, whichever is greater.

In the eyes of some agents, this is unfair self-dealing. They believe that WarnerMedia had an obligation to maximize value for the profit participants — to make a good-faith effort to see what prices other companies might have paid for the Warner Bros. movies before selling them to itself. The licensing fee does not appear to be connected to the value each movie will create for HBO Max in the form of subscriptions or engagement.

Litigation over self-dealing has been relatively common in Hollywood since the 1990s, when industry consolidation led to media superconglomerates.

WarnerMedia’s aggrieved partners include Legendary Entertainment, two people with knowledge of the matter said. Owned by China’s Dalian Wanda Group, Legendary produced the upcoming “Dune” and “Godzilla vs. Kong” under a deal that required Legendary (and its affiliates) to ultimately shoulder 75 percent of the production costs, with Warner Bros. paying for the balance. Denis Villeneuve’s “Dune,” a science-fiction epic starring Timothée Chalamet and an array of other big names (Zendaya, Jason Mamoa), cost an estimated $165 million. “Godzilla vs. Kong” cost about $155 million.

Not only did Warner Bros. blindside Legendary about the distribution shake-up, but HBO Max immediately began advertising itself using footage from “Dune” and other movies. Stars involved with the much-anticipated project were stunned: Some had agreed to lower their upfront fees (to reduce production costs) in return for expected back-end paydays. In success, “Dune” could spawn multiple sequels.

Legendary was already upset with Warner. In recent months, Netflix had offered the partners a huge sum — at least $250 million — to buy “Godzilla vs. Kong.” Legendary was in favor of the deal, which seemed to optimize the film’s value. But Warner had blocked the Netflix sale.

Legendary declined to comment, as did Warner Bros.





No.27 article:
On Iran, Biden Can Bide His Time

The new administration should not be stampeded into returning to the nuclear deal.

President-elect Joe Biden has made it clear that his preferred method for dealing with Iran is to find a way back to the nuclear deal the Obama administration concluded in 2015, while bargaining for an extension to some of its key provisions.

“If Iran returns to strict compliance,” Biden wrote in a September op-ed for CNN, “the United States would rejoin the agreement as a starting point for follow-on negotiations.”

The Iranian regime, for its part, has made it clear that, in reaction to last month’s assassination of its nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, it intends to ramp up its production of enriched uranium while threatening to expel international inspectors by early February if the United States doesn’t immediately lift sanctions.

The regime has also ruled out any extensions to the nuclear deal, from which President Trump withdrew in 2018. “It will never be renegotiated,” says Foreign Minister Javad Zarif. “Period.”

There’s a way out of this impasse. The Biden administration should — and, more important, can — bide its time.

Tehran is desperate to have sanctions lifted. In 2016, after the nuclear deal had taken effect, it exported roughly 2.1 million barrels of crude oil a day. In 2020, after the Trump administration imposed sanctions, it exported less than a quarter of that. The inflation rate is running somewhere between 42 and 99 percent. Protests a year ago, triggered by a rise in fuel prices, led to massive street demonstrations calling for an end to the regime.

The regime’s response to its economic and political crises has been to up the stakes. It wagers that it can provoke a nuclear crisis and then stampede the new administration into giving up its immense economic leverage even before meaningful negotiations begin. Once the main sanctions are lifted, Tehran can concede things it never had a right to withdraw, such as U.N. access to its nuclear facilities under the terms of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, while haggling for things it shouldn’t be allowed to get, such as the lifting of sanctions on an Iranian airline that supports the regime’s proxies.

But Tehran’s escalation is also a bluff. There’s a limit to how far it can go in provoking a nuclear crisis with the United States without risking a confrontation with an enemy that is much closer to home.

In the last six months, explosions in Iran have destroyed large parts of a centrifuge manufacturing facility in Natanz, a secretive military installation at Parchin, a power plant in Isfahan, a missile facility in Khojir and an underground military installation in Tehran, among other places. Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, Al Qaeda’s second-highest leader, was gunned down in August in the streets of Tehran. As for Fakhrizadeh, he was not the first Iranian nuclear scientist to meet a violent end, and probably won’t be the last.

Nobody has taken responsibility for these attacks, but nobody is in much doubt about their source, either. They reveal an astonishing degree of penetration of the Iranian security complex. If Tehran tries to race toward nuclear breakout, it knows it will encounter a determined and effective challenge. There’s a limit to how far the regime can go with its provocations before those provocations become dangerous to the regime itself.

In short, Tehran’s negotiating position is weak and its options for escalation are limited. (Even its apparent attack last year on Saudi Arabia’s oil installations, while technically impressive, did little permanent damage to the kingdom while accelerating the recent Arab-Israeli rapprochement.) If disputed rumors of the 81-year-old Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei’s ill health prove true, the country would experience its first transfer of real authority since 1989, another tumultuous event for an already unpopular regime.

Contrast this with the Biden administration, which will come into office holding four powerful cards — assuming it chooses to play them. First, it can credibly outsource effective deterrence to Israel without having to bear the immediate risks. Second, it can leverage the military, economic, intelligence and diplomatic resources of an increasingly united Israeli-Arab front. Third, it doesn’t have to impose new sanctions to cripple Iran’s economy. It merely has to enforce the ones already in place.

Finally, there is growing evidence that Iran has long been in breach of its past commitments by hiding hundreds of tons of nuclear equipment and material that should have been disclosed under the terms of the nuclear deal. The Biden administration and its European partners have a right and responsibility to insist that Tehran provide a full accounting of that material as the entry price of negotiations.

There is a road toward a credible and durable deal with Iran that can muster the kind of regional support and bipartisan buy-in the last one lacked. It’s a deal that forces the regime to choose between a nuclear program or a functioning economy, rather than getting both. A Biden administration that has the patience to see through Tehran’s bluster can be rewarded with a lasting diplomatic achievement that a future administration, unlike the last one, will not easily erase.





No.28 article:
‘This Is Insanity’: Start-Ups End Year in a Deal Frenzy

Investors are tripping over one another to give hot start-ups money. DoorDash and Airbnb are going public. The good times are baaack.

SAN FRANCISCO — Hopin, a virtual events start-up in London, had seven employees and was valued at $38 million at the beginning of the year. Johnny Boufarhat, the company’s chief executive, wasn’t planning on raising more money.

But as the pandemic spread and more people held virtual events, Hopin’s business took off. Unsolicited offers from investors started pouring in. “It’s like a drumbeat,” Mr. Boufarhat said. “That’s become the new way for investors to tempt founders.”

In June, Hopin raised a fresh $40 million from venture capital firms such as Accel and IVP. Last month, without even building a formal presentation, the company garnered a further $125 million, valuing it at $2.1 billion — a 77-fold increase from a year ago.

And still, Mr. Boufarhat said, “investors are reaching out almost daily.”

At the onset of the pandemic, warnings of start-up doom abounded. Those largely faded after the initial shock of the coronavirus wore off. Now, as the new reality of remote work, school, shopping and socializing supercharges the adoption of tech products and services, sentiment has flipped even further — to a frenzy of deal making.

Start-ups like Discord and Robinhood are raising more money at sky-high valuations, and then  being inundated with new funding offers. Venture capitalists are fighting to get into deals. And as the delivery service DoorDash and the home rental start-up Airbnb prepare to go public this week, the bonanza of initial public offerings is likely to enrich and fuel Silicon Valley’s start-up boom even more.

“Almost every hot company right now is being pursued like mad,” said Matt Murphy, an investor at the venture capital firm Menlo Ventures. “More than ever, there is this flight to being in the assets at any price.”

The boom is being driven not just by higher demand for digital products and services. Low interest rates are pushing investors to seek returns in ever-riskier assets. Venture firms have raised record levels of capital. A soaring stock market has enabled more I.P.O.s. Big tech companies are making bold acquisitions. Even Bitcoin has reached a new high.

That helped start-ups amass $36.5 billion in funding in the third quarter, up 30 percent from a year earlier, according to CB Insights, which tracks private financing. Start-ups have raised 223 “mega-rounds” of $100 million or higher so far this year, on a pace to surpass last year’s total, according to Pitchbook.

The average valuations for more mature start-ups also spiked to a high of $584 million, according to Pitchbook. And 81 I.P.O.s raised $28.5 billion in the third quarter, the busiest period for listings since 2000, according to Renaissance Capital.

“I haven’t seen anything like this in over 20 years,” said Eric Paley, an investor at the venture firm Founder Collective. “The party is as loud and the drinks are flowing as freely as the dot-com boom, despite that we’re all drinking at home and alone.”

While some start-ups have retrenched in the pandemic, far more have found themselves on the right side of the economy’s “feast or famine” split. With the coronavirus compressing  years of tech adoption into a few months, lesser-known software companies focused on areas like cloud computing, financial technology and collaboration tools have thrived. Wall Street recently offered warm welcomes to public listings from fast-growing software start-ups such as Snowflake, Asana, JFrog, Sumo Logic and Unity.

The world underestimated just how big the already huge tech industry could become, said Roseanne Wincek, an investor at Renegade Partners. “More and more people are waking up to that,” she said.

On Wednesday, DoorDash plans to list its shares and go public at a valuation as high as $35.3 billion, more than double its last private valuation. The company increased its proposed price range to $90 to $95 a share on Friday, up from $75 to $85. The listing may help redeem SoftBank, the swashbuckling mega-fund that was humbled last year by a spate of bad investments in start-ups such as the real estate company WeWork.

Airbnb, which was crippled by the travel shutdowns in the spring, then plans to go public the next day. On Monday, the company raised the proposed price range on its listing to $56 to $60 a share, up from $44 to $50. That could increase its valuation to as high as $42 billion, or 32 percent above where it was before the pandemic.

Private start-ups normally raise funding every 12 to 18 months, but with investors furiously competing to give them money, that timeline has now shrunk to three to six months, entrepreneurs and investors said. Some start-ups are even closing back-to-back rounds of funding at higher valuations.

After Discord, a social media platform, raised money in June valuing it at $3.5 billion, investors immediately called to give the company more funding, one person with knowledge of the company said. Now Discord is in talks to raise more and to double its valuation to $7 billion, said two people with knowledge of the talks, who were not authorized to speak publicly. Discord declined to comment. TechCrunch first reported on its new funding.

Instacart, a grocery delivery company, also raised two blockbuster rounds of funding this year, more than doubling its valuation to $17.7 billion. Robinhood, the stock trading app, has pulled in $1.25 billion in four funding rounds this year, valuing it at $11.7 billion.

In a pandemic, investors have found it difficult to impress entrepreneurs with posh dinners or celebrity-laden parties. But they have gained an edge by moving the fastest.

Rahul Vohra, an entrepreneur who also backs young start-ups, frequently hears a company’s pitch, conducts diligence, signs a deal and wires the money all in the same day, he said.

“There’s no point in sitting on the deal,” Mr. Vohra said. Waiting a week means the deal could get more expensive or become overcrowded with other investors, costing him a chance to invest, he said.

In late summer, Addition, an investment fund, approached Snyk, a security software start-up, about taking more money. Within 48 hours of meeting, Snyk signed a funding agreement. The funding, raised just eight months after Snyk’s previous round, valued the company at $2.6 billion, or 80 times its annual recurring revenue of roughly $30 million.

“They used speed to their advantage,” said Peter McKay, Snyk’s chief executive. “Investors who are waiting for someone to raise a round — that’s almost too late.”

Henrique Dubugras, chief executive of Brex, a start-up that provides credit cards to other start-ups, said he had also had more unsolicited calls from investors. Early in the pandemic, Brex laid off 62 employees and closed a restaurant it operated in San Francisco’s South Park. But in June, business started rebounding, he said. Calls from venture capitalists soon followed.

“I’ve honestly never seen it as aggressive as it is right now,” Mr. Dubugras said. He said Brex was not currently planning to raise more funding.

The froth has created a sense of unease among some investors. Mr. Paley said some of Founder Collective’s portfolio companies had raised “breathtaking” financing rounds that felt risky.

“When people congratulate us, we are sheepish about whether these nosebleed valuations are good for us or the founders,” he said.

But there’s little point in declaring the sky is falling, other investors said. Who would listen? For more than a decade, prominent investors have tried to warn against start-up spending, valuations and bubbles. In that time, the tech industry has only gotten bigger, richer and more powerful.

Some investors pointed to Sequoia Capital, one of Silicon Valley’s best-known venture firms, which sent a dramatic “Black Swan” memo in March telling companies to prepare for a difficult year. Six months later, Roelof Botha, a Sequoia partner, said at a virtual TechCrunch conference that he hadn’t anticipated how much this era would benefit tech companies. Sequoia declined to comment.

That same week, three Sequoia-backed start-ups held lucrative I.P.O.s. The firm will most likely see new windfalls this week because of its investments in DoorDash and Airbnb. Sequoia also owns shares in Zoom, the videoconferencing company, which has gone from a $1 billion valuation to $116 billion in less than two years.

Frank Rotman, a venture capitalist at QED Investors, tweeted in August that the pattern of start-ups raising back-to-back rounds of funding was “the most disturbing trend I’m seeing.” He wrote that “a company can easily fly off the rails with too much easy and cheap money in their bank account.” Several top venture capitalists wrote him to say they agreed, he said.

Last week, as QED completed a new investment, another venture firm asked to put money into the same company at a twofold to threefold valuation increase. The firm wanted to get an agreement signed the day that Mr. Rotman’s firm wired its money, which was the earliest moment it would be possible to strike another deal.

“This is insanity,” Mr. Rotman said.





No.29 article:
Being Boba Fett: Temuera Morrison Discusses ‘The Mandalorian’

Morrison, a veteran of the “Star Wars” film franchise, talks about his role as the fearsome bounty hunter on the Disney+ series “The Mandalorian.”

It’s been nearly 40 years since moviegoers saw Boba Fett, the fearsome bounty hunter of the original “Star Wars” saga, take an ill-fated tumble into the Great Pit of Carkoon, where he was presumed to have been devoured by the Sarlacc.

But death is often just a temporary state in “Star Wars,” and after his memorable (if mortifying) demise in “Return of the Jedi,” a very-much-alive Boba Fett has reappeared in subsequent novels, comic books and other media, having survived that seemingly fatal fall.

“The Mandalorian,” the Disney+ series set in the “Star Wars” universe, has also been building up to a fuller return of the enigmatic Fett: The character has been shown in cameo in past episodes, and in the most recent installment, “The Tragedy,” Fett played a central role when he came after the show’s title hero (Pedro Pascal) in search of his missing armor.

On “The Mandalorian,” Boba Fett is played by Temuera Morrison, a veteran of the “Star Wars” prequel movies. Morrison previously portrayed Jango Fett, the silver-suited soldier of fortune from “Episode II — Attack of the Clones” who provides the genetic template for the Republic’s Clone Army as well as for his own son, Boba, the future mercenary and nemesis of Han Solo.

(Multiple Morrisons appear in “Episode III — Revenge of the Sith,” in which he played various clone soldiers; he has also voiced Boba Fett and Jango Fett in several “Star Wars” video games, and his voice has been retroactively added to Boba Fett’s scenes in “The Empire Strikes Back” and “Return of the Jedi.”)

Morrison, who has also starred in films like “Once Were Warriors,” “Moana” and “Aquaman,” spoke on Friday about assuming the mantle of Boba Fett and his history with the “Star Wars” franchise. These are edited excerpts from that conversation.

How long have you been awaiting your opportunity to return to the “Star Wars” series?

There was a lot of stuff online about a possible “Star Wars” bounty-hunter film, and then I was watching all the new “Star Wars” movies coming out, wondering if they were ever going to do anything with Jango Fett. My agent and I had a number of discussions — when are they going to call me? But then I kept forgetting about it. In this day and age, they have a number of options. They could have called other people to play the part. They can go with a fresh face. They could have called the Rock. I felt so grateful that after all this time, something came to be.

What happened when you finally got the call that the series creator Jon Favreau and executive producer Dave Filoni wanted to meet with you?

I wasn’t even quite sure what “The Mandalorian” was about, but I kind of knew that Jango and Boba had their own Mandalorian history. At the time, I was in Los Angeles, meeting on another film, so I was pleasantly surprised to get the call. I actually got to the meeting quite early — I was so excited I got there about two hours early — and there were conceptual drawings on the wall. I saw an image that looked like me, and I said, I’m sure that’s me. But even then, I didn’t want to get too excited.

What did you discuss with them in that meeting?

I was just listening — I wasn’t discussing anything. I’m just nodding, going, yes, yes. Obviously they had their ideas about what they wanted to do, and they must have told me that they wanted me to play the role again. But I was so nervous that some of it was just going straight over my head. I was just going: “Wow! This is great.” It wasn’t until I got back in the car after the meeting that I went, “Is this actually going to happen?” But as you saw, it happened, all right.

Did they talk about his being a different, more seasoned Boba Fett than we saw in the early “Star Wars” films?

Yes. When we find Boba, he’s well-worn, and he’s been through a lot. He’s a survivor, and he’s weathered. Now it was time to find out more about what makes Boba tick. Is he more than just a simple man, trying to make his way through the galaxy? Is he tired of all the fighting? Is he tired of all the killing?

The one thing I can relate to is, I’m quite a mature man now and things always change. Sometimes you’re in Hollywood, in all the magazines and newspapers. And sometimes you end up in the fish and chip shop in New Zealand, where all the old magazines and papers go. You’re old news. [Laughs.]

Did your makeup and costume also help you find the character?

I was doing that kind of background work — what’s this guy going to look like? What’s he going to sound like? — and while they’re applying makeup, I’m going, well, here he is. We did quite a number of makeup tests and I worked closely with the makeup artist Brian Sipe. When I saw some of the scars on my face, I thought, well, maybe he does talk a little bit gravelly. Maybe his vocal cords have been affected as well. Then you put the costume on and it gives you a sense of power. The costume makes you feel like Superman. When I put the armor on for the first time, it just felt right.

How did you want to incorporate your cultural background into the role?

I come from the Maori nation of New Zealand, the Indigenous people — we’re the Down Under Polynesians — and I wanted to bring that kind of spirit and energy, which we call wairua. I’ve been trained in my cultural dance, which we call the haka. I’ve also been trained in some of our weapons, so that’s how I was able to manipulate some of the weapons in my fight scenes and work with the gaffi stick, which my character has.

How were you originally cast in the “Star Wars” prequels?

I give praise to George [Lucas] who made me Jango Fett in the first place. We filmed in Sydney, so he used quite a few actors from New Zealand and Australia. It wasn’t long after “Once Were Warriors” that I met with the casting people of “Star Wars,” and I feel that’s the movie that launched me in Hollywood. It wasn’t a big box-office movie here in America, but people in the industry saw it, and that opened a few more doors for me, that’s for sure.

What do you remember about your time on the set of “Attack of the Clones”?

I just had so much fun. I think I might have been killing George because I’d be singing on set, playing around with the weapons and wearing the outfits. I think I had too much fun. But I thought, man, if I get another opportunity to do this, I’m going to really get into it and do the best job that I can.

Did George Lucas explain to you that you would end up playing all these other characters who were cloned from Jango Fett?

Even when I finished the filming process, there was still quite a bit of work to do — I would keep getting calls from George: “OK, I just need you in the studio to voice some more stuff.” One moment I’m the voice of this, and then another guy, and then Commander Cody, and then a whole elite strike force. Things just kept going and going and going, but I didn’t mind.

Do you often hear from “Star Wars” fans who felt that Jango Fett suffered an unexpectedly abrupt death?

Yes, well, I know the feeling. I ended up watching “Attack of the Clones” in Dallas, and I was so excited to watch it with this new Dolby sound at the theater. I was just starting to enjoy myself when I got killed. “Wow, this is good. There I am.” [pause] “But anyway.” My journey in “Attack of the Clones” was pretty short-lived. But that was a long time ago. Now I’m back again.

I’m sorry that you’re going to get this question a lot, but “The Tragedy” doesn’t address how Boba Fett survived his encounter with the Sarlacc. Has that been explained to you? And do you know how the character stayed alive?

Ah, no, I don’t. There’s quite a bit of loose ends, and I’m not one of those guys that knows too much about the actual history. The fans of “Star Wars,” they have better knowledge of, What’s happened? How can he still be alive? I thought he was stuck in this place? I can find out more on the internet.

Has there been any talk of your returning as Boba Fett, whether on “The Mandalorian” or other “Star Wars” projects — even a series of his own?

I’m just going to have to wait and see. I think a lot of it depends on how things go with this season, but I don’t really know. I wanted to bring everything I had to that [episode] and give them a glimmer of what I can offer. There’s room for this to go someplace. I hope I’m going to be included.

Are you hoping to team up with Baby Yoda at some point?

Baby Yoda’s probably the biggest actor in Hollywood at the moment, but I never got to work with him very closely or with the people who move him around. I was using him in a not-so-good way, as bait. But hopefully I’ll get to meet him and we can have a little bonding session.





No.30 article:
Elevating Fringe Theories, Ron Johnson Questions Virus Science

The Wisconsin Republican has transformed his Senate panel into a forum for amplifying dubious theories and questionable treatments pushed by President Trump.

WASHINGTON — In choosing a slate of doctors to testify about coronavirus treatments before his committee on Tuesday, Senator Ron Johnson has assembled a cast of witnesses who question much of the public health consensus about the virus.

There is a prominent vaccine skeptic, an outspoken critic of masking and social distancing, and at least two doctors who have promoted the use of an anti-parasitic drug that government scientists have recommended against using to treat the coronavirus.

It is the latest example of how Mr. Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican who has used his powerful investigative panel to amplify groundless accusations pushed by President Trump, has now embraced the role of the Senate’s leading Covid contrarian.

Even as some of his Republican colleagues have sought to use their platforms to encourage Americans to take precautions against the spread of the virus and persuade the public that vaccines against it will be safe and vital, Mr. Johnson has suggested that the dangers of the coronavirus have been overblown and excessively regulated. And twice in the past three weeks, Mr. Johnson has used his gavel on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to elevate voices who public health experts say represent fringe beliefs.

It has set off something of a quiet mutiny on the panel, enraging Democrats who plan to essentially boycott the traditional cross-examination of witnesses and unsettling some Republicans who are planning to skip Tuesday’s session lest their presence be seen as lending credence to the proceeding.

The selections underscore the extent to which Mr. Johnson, a former plastics baron who has made little secret of his disdain for the Washington establishment, has eagerly echoed the most conspiracy-minded and anti-science impulses of Mr. Trump and waded headfirst into battles even the president’s usually reliable phalanx of congressional defenders have been unwilling to fight.

Mr. Johnson spent much of the year pursuing a corruption inquiry into President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son, Hunter, that he conceded was driven by Mr. Biden’s political campaign, and that ultimately found no wrongdoing by the elder Mr. Biden. Since the election, he has questioned whether Mr. Biden won fairly, saying last week that Attorney General William P. Barr should produce proof to back up his statement that the Justice Department had found no evidence of the kind of widespread voter fraud Mr. Trump has baselessly insisted cost him the election.

Mr. Johnson is unfazed by the criticism he has attracted.

In an interview on Monday, he said that while he supported widespread vaccination and masking, he believed that many of his colleagues had been too deferential to a public health establishment that, because of its obsession with finding a vaccine and lack of experience treating coronavirus patients, had undermined, neglected and even “censored” other potential treatments that he believes could help.

“We have grossly overreacted to this,” Mr. Johnson said of the virus. “We have not been smart. We should have isolated the sick, protected the vulnerable and then the rest of us carry on with our lives as safely as possible.”

Mr. Johnson’s lead witness on Tuesday, Dr. Jane M. Orient, has cast doubts on coronavirus vaccines and has pushed for the use of hydroxychloroquine, an antimalarial drug pushed by Mr. Trump, as a treatment. She helps run a group that believes government vaccine mandates violate human rights.

Another, the Washington cardiologist Ramin Oskoui, said on Fox News last month that it was “settled science” that “social distancing doesn’t work, quarantining doesn’t work, masks don’t work.” On the contrary, it is settled science that all three are effective in limiting the spread of the virus.

Two others promote the use of ivermectin, a drug often used to fight lice and pinworms, to treat coronavirus patients, despite the National Institutes of Health’s recommendation against its use outside clinical trials.

Mr. Johnson said he felt that the public had a right to learn about early treatments they might not otherwise be aware of.

“There’s a blackout on good information in social media and media,” he said. “So people are being denied information to make intelligent choices themselves.”

Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, the top Democrat on the panel, fretted that the witnesses would “amplify theories that are at odds with the broader scientific community and, according to experts, could cause harm.”

“These fringe views run counter to what the Senate should be doing — working on a bipartisan basis to protect the American people and tackle this deadly pandemic,” Mr. Peters said.

He pointedly declined to invite a witness to Tuesday’s hearing, and his aides said he did not plan to engage with the witnesses during the session. Instead, he is working with a group of a dozen prominent health experts to draft a letter to submit for the Congressional Record challenging their views.

Mr. Johnson’s inflammatory public statements and his decision to give a platform to an assortment of contrarian doctors promoting alternative treatments have also irked some fellow Republicans, who have privately groused that he is acting irresponsibly. But in the clubby Senate, few are willing to criticize a colleague openly or challenge a chairman on how he runs his committee.

Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who had criticized the Hunter Biden inquiry as politicized, conspicuously skipped questioning witnesses at the earlier coronavirus hearing and does not plan to attend on Tuesday. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who is slated to take the top Republican slot on the panel in January after Mr. Johnson’s term as chairman ends, has gone out of his way to project trust for the scientific consensus on the coronavirus, publicly announcing last month that he had signed up for a vaccine trial in part to persuade Americans that it was safe.

Dr. Ashish Jha, the dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who tangled with Mr. Johnson at a November hearing dedicated to hydroxychloroquine, called that event “a powerful reminder that not even Congress is immune to toxic conspiracy theories.”

At the hearing, Mr. Johnson wondered aloud why medical professionals like Dr. Jha had scorned the drug, which has repeatedly been shown to be ineffective at treating coronavirus patients, and were supporting another drug, remdesivir, which has been shown to work but is more expensive.

“I question the fact that because this cocktail costs about $20 and remdesivir costs $3,000, that maybe there’s a little bias, maybe there’s a little conflict, maybe there’s a little agenda,” he said.

“He’s giving platforms to people who are way outside of the mainstream medical community,” Dr. Jha said in an interview.

Mr. Johnson said his own coronavirus infection in early October — “I had two positive tests. I guess they’re valid,” he said — did not require treatment.

Mr. Johnson’s interest in health issues is longstanding and consistent with his more recent statements. He was the lead sponsor, for example, of so-called right-to-try legislation that Congress overwhelmingly approved in 2018 to allow seriously ill patients to bypass the Food and Drug Administration and use unproven experimental treatments.

“He has always been a contrarian person,” said Mark Becker, the former county chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party, who recently wrote an op-ed for The Bulwark, a website with a bent toward “Never Trump” conservatism, about a recent call with Mr. Johnson.

“But everything on the Republican side has turned to be a political argument, even a public health crisis,” Mr. Becker said. “And he still cares about not pissing off those Trumpers. He said that to me very clearly: ‘I’m not going to piss them off.’”

The calculation is most likely a shrewd one as the senator looks toward running for a third term in 2022 in a competitive state where he has twice been elected by narrow margins. Though he initially pledged to serve only two terms, Mr. Johnson has since hinted that he may feel compelled to run again, arguing that times have changed. Mr. Trump’s vocal support could be key.

Thomas Nelson, the Outagamie County executive and a Democrat challenging Mr. Johnson, predicted that voters would remember Mr. Johnson using a powerful perch in Washington to publicly explore “rabbit holes of bizarre conspiracies.”

“What’s wrong with you? I mean, what is wrong with you?” Mr. Nelson said in an interview. “Do you not see the existential threat that communities like your hometown are facing, have been facing?”





No.31 article:
Christmas Trees — an Elusive Bit of Happiness for Canadians

There’s been a run on Christmas trees as Canadians, trapped inside because of the pandemic, try, in record numbers, to shoehorn joy into their lives.

TORONTO — Scott Lunau was steering apple pickers onto his farm in mid-November when a customer asked if it was too early to cut down a Christmas tree. He scrambled out to the barn to find the wrapping machine and netting needed to tie up a tree like a package, ready for a roof rack.

“I thought I had a few crazy people who wanted to get trees early,” said Mr. Lunau, the owner of Albion Orchards, a 50-acre farm 25 minutes northwest of Toronto. With six weeks to go before Christmas, he wondered if they were going on a trip and planned to celebrate early.

Instead, they were harbingers of the storm of early Christmas tree shoppers that would descend on his farm, and many others across the country, just as Covid-19 rates began to rise at alarming rates.

Christmas has come early to Canada, it seems, with parts of the country  hunkered down since November. Its biggest city, Toronto, and two of its large suburbs went into lockdown two weeks ago. Since there is little Christmas shopping, few Christmas parties and fewer of the Christmas pageants that are a hallmark of the country’s annual celebration, all that festive energy is being squeezed into private happy-making — centered around the traditional Christmas tree.

Weeks before the first Saturday of December, when Canadians usually start looking for their trees, many cut-your-own Christmas tree farms were already picked clean, sold-out signs put up on Christmas tree lots and nurseries declared out of inventory. If toilet paper shortages and bare shelves in the baking aisle of grocery stores were the symbol of the coronavirus’s first crash through Canada, then Christmas trees are quickly becoming the symbol of the virus’s second wave.

“We’ve been trying for four days to find more,” said Steve Watson, who runs a large Christmas tree lot in Toronto’s Beaches neighborhood that was picked dry a week after it opened in November. “Someone offered me three times the price to give them a tree last night. It’s definitely Covid-panic.”

Christmas is Canada’s biggest holiday of the year. Traditionally, it is marked by large gatherings — Christmas markets, Christmas concerts, tree lightings and Santa Claus parades that weave through crowded streets packed with viewers who arrive hours early to mark their spot.

This year, as coronavirus rates break records across the country, most of those have been canceled.

François Legault, the premier of Quebec, had been among the few political leaders to condone small gatherings over the holidays. Last Thursday he reversed his stand, saying the province’s soaring rates meant that family gatherings of any size were “not a good idea.”

On Friday Prime Minister Justin Trudeau weighed in. “We knew it wouldn’t be a normal Christmas,” he said. “Now we are going to have to try to connect differently with our loved ones.” He added, “It’s going to be a difficult time.”

Many Canadians who fly across country to see family or escape south to the tropics for a few weeks of precious sun, have canceled those trips. About 70 percent of Canada’s 110,000 snowbirds, who typically head to Florida, California and Arizona for winter, decided to stay put, according to the Canadian Snowbird Association’s spokesman, Evan Rachkovsky.

Taken together, that makes for many more Christmas tree buyers — pushing sales across the country up by 25 percent, said Shirley Brennan, executive director of the Canadian Christmas Trees Association, a growers’ group.

“People want hope,” she said. “Christmas trees give them hope.”

That same motivation seems prevalent in Britain, several Western European countries and parts of the United States, where demand for trees — at tree farms, tree stands and online — is breaking records.

In Canada, the increase isn’t entirely the result of locked-down crazed shopping; it’s part of a trend. Over the past five years, Canadian Christmas tree farm sales have more than doubled, to $108 million,  or $138 million Canadian dollars, in 2019. That coincided with a lower supply, particularly in the United States, where the 2008 recession put many tree farms out of business and caused others to plant fewer trees.

Since the perfect Christmas tree takes about 10 years to grow, the market is still feeling the results now, said Doug Drysdale, a Christmas tree farmer. About half of Canadian tree sales go across the border into the United States, according to Statistics Canada.

“The U.S. is desperately short of trees,” said Mr. Drysdale, whose Drysdale Tree Farms is among the largest cut-your-own Christmas tree operations in the country. Two American wholesalers called him back in August, looking for 50,000 trees each — enough to wipe out his entire inventory for years, he said.

On the first Saturday in December, which is officially Christmas Tree Day in Ontario, two parking lots in front of Mr. Drysdale’s farm an hour north of Toronto were jammed with cars. This year, because of coronavirus concerns, Mr. Drysdale was not offering his usual Christmas village fare — no carolers, no Santa for children to climb on, no horse-drawn carriage rides through the woods or bonfires to toast marshmallows over. But it didn’t seem to matter.

“We’re all stuck inside,” said John Grogan, a 67-year-old retired electrician, standing in a long line of families waiting to board a wagon and be towed out into the Christmas tree fields. “Everybody needs something to cheer them up. This is the way to do it.”

Mr. Grogan’s grandchildren played around him, wearing masks. Since the coronavirus rates began to soar in the area, they’d stopped coming into his home to be sure not to infect him or his wife, he said.

“This is our opportunity to be together again,” he said.

 For some growers like Mr. Drysdale, the Christmas tree phase has come as welcome boost to lagging profits because they’ve raised tree prices. For others, it has simply meant barren fields.

“When we are done, we are done,” said Matthew Whitney, who runs a small Christmas tree farm three hours west of Toronto. “We can only plant so many trees a year. We have to be strict, so you are not selling trees that are for next year.” The Christmas spirit kept him from raising prices — it was a tough year on everyone, he said, “when people weren’t as flush as they usually are.”

After only two weekends open, Mr. Whitney sold all 600 trees, around half to new customers who had never bought a real tree before. That means he and wife will have a novel Christmas season, without the bustle of customers arriving to their farm.

“That’s a refreshing change,” he said. “We can sit back and enjoy it.”





No.32 article:
Corrections: Dec. 8, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020.

An article on Monday about mass transit spending cuts across the United States described incorrectly the Bay Area Rapid Transit System. It operates heavy rail, like subways. It is not a light-rail system.

An article on Monday about a push by the Trump administration to distribute vaccines by mid-January referred incorrectly to the new restrictions taking effect in much of California. They do not require schools to close.

An article on Monday about Wilmington, Del., misstated the year the city was founded. It was 1638, not 1683.

An article on Sunday about President Trump’s behavior since he lost the election referred incompletely to a letter signed by Republican legislators in Pennsylvania disavowing their own election and calling on Congress to reject the state’s electors for Joseph R. Biden Jr. While the letter initially had 75 signatures, a revised version was issued late Friday evening with only 64 signatures.

An article on Friday about New York Representative Sean Patrick Maloney’s new role as the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee referred imprecisely to Representative Cheri Bustos’s status as chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. She did not resign from the post; she announced she would not seek another term.

An article on Sunday about a fire in the East Village in Manhattan, using information from the Fire Department, misstated the address of the vacant building where the fire started. It is 48 East 7th Street, not 47 East 7th Street.

A picture with an article on Saturday about 50 million pounds of paper money that has gone missing from the Bank of England was published in error. The building shown in the photograph was the Royal Exchange, not the Bank of England.

An article on Monday about last week’s N.F.L. news misstated the score by which the Cleveland Browns were outscored by the Tennessee Titans in the second half after taking a 38-7 lead at halftime. It was by 28-3, not 32-3.

An article on Monday about virtual theater productions misstated the location of the college in “Heroes of the Fourth Turning.” It is in Wyoming, not Montana.

An obituary on Saturday about the poet and publisher Naomi Long Madgett misstated the first part of a quotation from her about her poem “Midway.” She said, “I know what’s wrong with it, but I don’t know how to fix it” — not “I don’t know what’s wrong with it.”

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.33 article:
Paul Sarbanes, 87, Dies; Maryland Senator Fought Accounting Fraud

Early in his career, he introduced the first article of impeachment against Richard Nixon. Decades later, he co-wrote legislation in response to corporate scandals.

Former Senator Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, a publicity-shy Democratic lawmaker who wrote landmark legislation to curb fraudulent accounting practices that led to huge investor losses and major corporate bankruptcies in 2001 and 2002, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 87.

Judy Keenan, a longtime aide, said he died while watching a Georgia Senate runoff debate on television at a retirement community in which he lived. She did not specify a cause but said he had had heart problems.

Mr. Sarbanes (pronounced SAR-baynz) may be best remembered for the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, co-sponsored by Representative Michael G. Oxley, an Ohio Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.

Adopted in response to the scandals involving Enron and other companies, the legislation strengthened corporate governance and created a federal oversight board for the accounting industry. In addition, it curbed accounting firms’ consulting work for companies they audited and required them to judge internal fraud controls at those companies. It also required chief executives to certify audits personally and attest to their accuracy.

But while other members of Congress pursued the Enron scandal with splashy televised hearings and spirited denunciations, Mr. Sarbanes approached it by holding 10 thorough hearings to get widespread expert advice on what corrective legislation should include.

Initially opposed by many Republicans and by the powerful lobbying of the accounting industry, the measure eventually passed 97 to 0 in the Senate after another accounting failure, at WorldCom, had sent the stock market plunging.

The House had originally passed a weaker measure but agreed to a compromise that was basically the Senate bill.

Mr. Sarbanes headed the Senate Banking Committee for 18 months in 2001 and 2002. In 2001, he pushed a measure through the committee giving the government more ability to track money laundering involving terrorism. The bill that became part of the Patriot Act, which, signed into law after the attacks of Sept. 11 that year, gave the government broad new powers with which to confront terrorism.

Mr. Sarbanes also served on the Foreign Relations Committee, where he voted against resolutions in 1991 and 2002 authorizing war against Iraq. The first senator of Greek-American heritage, he frequently supported Greece, maintaining that the United States was unduly friendly to its antagonist Turkey.

Having his name in headlines over the accounting measure was a rare moment in his 30 years in the Senate. Mr. Sarbanes avoided publicity and scoffed at repeated attempts by Maryland Republicans to label him a “stealth senator.”

Mr. Sarbanes saw his career as having “bookends,” as he put it in an interview for this obituary in 2013: It began in 1974 with his role in the impeachment proceedings against President Richard M. Nixon and closed with the accounting law.

He was in the second of his three terms in the House and a member of its Judiciary Committee when he was given the assignment of introducing and defending, on national television, the critical first article of impeachment against Nixon, charging him with obstruction of justice.

It was a surprise assignment. The committee’s chairman, Peter W. Rodino Jr., had called Mr. Sarbanes, who was 41 at the time, into his office shortly before the committee met and gave him the task. Mr. Rodino had been impressed with Mr. Sarbanes’s “intellectual honesty” and legal mind, Francis O’Brien, a key committee aide at the time, said years later.

The article was approved on a bipartisan 27-to-11 vote. The committee approved two other articles, but Nixon resigned before the full House could vote on them.

Mr. Sarbanes played a similar role on another highly emotional issue four years later. As a freshman senator in 1978, he was on the Senate floor almost constantly, explaining and defending the treaties turning the Panama Canal over to Panama.

Approving those pacts, he told the Senate, “will make these treaties a historic achievement” for the American people, and for the protection of American interests, and “will show a great power bringing might and right into harmony.”

While Mr. Sarbanes compiled a 95 percent liberal voting record, according to the progressive group Americans for Democratic Action, some of his liberal allies grumbled that he often stayed away from partisan fights when they saw Republican vulnerabilities.

For the most part he operated quietly. “I was doing a lot,” he said in 2013. “I just didn’t make a lot of noise about it.” As George J. Mitchell, the Democratic majority leader from 1989 to 1995, observed, “Paul was effective because he didn’t seek credit, which endeared him to his colleagues.”

Mr. Mitchell, like his predecessor as leader, Robert C. Byrd, sought Mr. Sarbanes’s help and advice on difficult issues, especially those relating to the economy. Mr. Sarbanes served two two-year terms as chairman of Congress’s Joint Economic Committee.

Thomas A. Daschle, the Democratic leader from 1995 to 2005, said in 2013 that when he was “trying to persuade the caucus to do something difficult, I would use Paul to bring it home, to close the argument.”

Recalling the tense days of President Bill Clinton’s impeachment trial in 1999, Mr. Daschle said: “My whole goal was to keep the caucus as unified as possible, and I would ask Paul to summarize in a compelling way what the issue was. He had such a great legal mind.”

Paul Spyros Sarbanes was born Feb. 3, 1933, in Salisbury, on Maryland’s Eastern Shore. He was the son of two Greek immigrants, Spyros and Matina (Tsigounis) Sarbanes, who ran the Mayflower restaurant in Salisbury. The family lived upstairs.

A star student and athlete at Wicomico High School, Mr. Sarbanes had strictly local college ambitions until a Princeton alumnus visited the school and met him. He received a full scholarship and became the first student from Wicomico to go to Princeton.

Mr. Sarbanes graduated in 1954 and won a Rhodes Scholarship. He attended Balliol College at Oxford and received a second bachelor’s degree in 1957. He earned a law degree at Harvard in 1960 and within a year or so married Christine Dunbar, whom he had met at Oxford.

He clerked for a federal judge; worked as an aide to Walter W. Heller, the chairman of President John F. Kennedy’s Council of Economic Advisers; practiced law in Baltimore; and was executive director of a commission writing a new Baltimore City Charter.

In 1966 he ran for a seat in Maryland’s House of Delegates and won, and in 1970 he challenged a 13-term House veteran, George H. Fallon, chairman of the pork-barrel-rich House Committee on Public Works, in a Democratic primary. Campaigning door to door with his wife, Mr. Sarbanes won with 52 percent of the vote to the incumbent’s 45 percent and went on to win the general election.

Redistricting after the 1970 census pushed him into another potential race against a Democratic House committee chairman, Edward A. Garmatz. Mr. Garmatz headed the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, which was important to the port of Baltimore. But he retired, and Mr. Sarbanes won re-election easily.

He was then elected to the Senate, defeating Senator J. Glenn Beall Jr., a Republican, with 57 percent of the vote in 1976. He was attacked in 1982 by the National Conservative Political Action Committee, which had used the Panama Canal issue in 1980 to help defeat several Democratic senators. But Mr. Sarbanes won comfortably then and again in 1988, 1994 and 2000, before announcing in 2005 that he would not run again in 2006.

He is survived by a brother, Anthony; a sister, Zoe Pappas; two sons, John, who holds his father’s old seat in the House, and Michael; a daughter, Janet Sarbanes; and several grandchildren. His wife died in 2009 after 48 years of marriage.

Mr. Sarbanes was always attentive to local issues. He led the effort to clean up the Chesapeake Bay after another Maryland senator, Charles McC. Mathias, retired in 1987. He also pushed for federal support of mass transit; a transit center in Silver Spring, Md., is named for him.

After retiring, Mr. Sarbanes, unlike many senators, rejected the idea of taking a position at a Washington law firm. If he had, he told friends, sooner or later he would be asked to take on the distasteful choice of lobbying a former colleague.





No.34 article:
Metropolitan Opera to Lock Out Stagehands as Contract Talks Stall

After reaching a bargaining impasse, the shuttered opera company said it would lock out the workers needed to build sets for next season’s productions.

In one of the most serious labor disputes to erupt in the culture world since the coronavirus pandemic halted performances around the globe, the Metropolitan Opera said on Monday that it planned to lock out its stagehands at midnight after the union representing the workers balked at the company’s demands for pay cuts.

The Met, which has been shut by the pandemic since March, says that it needs to cut labor costs significantly if it is to survive until and after it reopens. So the company, which has furloughed most of its work force without pay since April, has offered to begin paying many employees up to $1,500 a week if their unions agree to long-term contracts that include a 30 percent cut in pay. Half of those cuts would be restored once the Met’s box office returns to pre-pandemic levels.

The unions have bristled at the request, saying that their members cannot handle such a long-term financial hit after going many months without pay. After talks with the powerful union that represents the Met’s roughly 300 stagehands, Local One of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, failed to yield an agreement this weekend, the Met announced that it planned to lock out the union’s workers.

“I realize it is incredibly painful what we’re asking them to do,” Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, said in an interview. “But what we’re trying to do is keep the Met alive, and the only way to achieve that is to reduce our costs.”

Of course the lockout will not have its usual impact during the pandemic, when few Met stagehands are working; only a few dozen stagehands have recently been at the opera house, Mr. Gelb said. But more were set to return later this month to begin constructing the sets for the operas that the Met plans to stage next fall, when it hopes to reopen.

Several other performing arts organizations facing a financial crisis as the pandemic has caused them to cancel many months of performances have negotiated pay cuts with the unions representing their workers, including at the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic.

After the Met’s lockout begins at midnight on Tuesday, Mr. Gelb said, the stagehands who are currently working on projects like maintaining stage mechanisms will no longer be able to work. He added that if an agreement is not reached by the spring and summer, when the Met usually ramps up its set construction, many more employees will end up out of work.

James J. Claffey Jr., the president of Local One, said in an interview on Monday that during bargaining negotiations he had suggested a lesser pay cut, but that his offer was rejected. None of the stagehands were willing to take a 30 percent cut, he added.

“To do this during a deadly virus is just ridiculous,” Mr. Claffey said of the lockout. “But that’s their leverage at this point.”

Mr. Gelb said Local One’s proposal was insignificant in terms of addressing the problems the Met faces.

Last month, Mr. Gelb sent a letter to Mr. Claffey saying that if they could not reach an agreement by Dec. 5, the Met “will have no choice other than to lock out Local One employees, utilizing other temporary means to construct the sets.” He added that in 2019, the average cost to the Met of a full-time stagehand, including benefits, was $260,000, and wrote that “the health crisis has compounded the Met’s previous financial fragility, threatening our very existence.”

Mr. Gelb has said that most of the pay cuts he is seeking could be achieved by changes to work rules. But the major unions that work with the Met have accused its management of taking advantage of the pandemic to push through concessions that the company has long sought to alter those rules, which have been established over many years of collective bargaining.

Local One’s contract with the Met expired at the end of July. Since Mr. Gelb sent the letter to Mr. Claffey in November, there have been two virtual negotiating meetings, but the deadline Mr. Gelb mentioned passed over the weekend without an agreement.

The Met has asked other unions whose contracts have not yet expired, like those that represent its orchestra musicians and chorus, to open negotiations early and agree to the cuts. In exchange, many of their members would be able to begin receiving partial paychecks for the first time in months. So far, those unions have not agreed to reopen their contracts early.

Adam Krauthamer, the president of the union that represents the orchestra, Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said that his union had made its own proposal for cutbacks that do not “gut their contract for decades to come.” In a statement, he denounced the stagehand lockout, saying that the Met’s revival “should not be at the expense of the very workers who quite literally make the organization function behind the scenes.”

Mr. Gelb contends that reductions in the company’s expenses should not be sought through the pruning of its live presentations. He said that two-thirds of the Met’s annual spending — $200 million — goes to labor costs. The Met’s non-unionized staff has already made sacrifices, he added, including salary cuts, his own foregoing of a salary since the end of March and pre-pandemic cuts to health and pension benefits.

“We shouldn’t be reducing them by reducing our artistic productivity,” he said of the company’s expenses. “Because that is the key to keeping donors on board and getting audiences to come back.”

Mr. Claffey said that the stagehands recognize that the Met has high artistic standards, but added that he rejected the idea that the cost reductions should fall primarily on labor.

“The Met wants labor to assume the entire burden,” he said. “It’s a recipe for disaster.”





No.35 article:
A Referee Pursues Her Calling in the Men’s Game

Last season, Crystal Hogan was the only woman officiating games in the top level of college basketball. The question is: Why?

COMPTON, Calif. — There are nearly 900 officials working in the top tier of men’s college basketball, keeping order at thousands of games. They wear black-and-white striped shirts and try to keep a low profile.

Last season, only one of them was a woman. Her name is Crystal Hogan, and when she sat down in February to talk about it, about the lonely and perplexing ratio of being 1 out of 900 in N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball, she was coolly diplomatic, as a good official should be.

“I can’t answer that,” she said. “I’m just happy for the opportunity.”

Hogan, 43, is glad to know that the number of women officiating top men’s college games has doubled this season with the addition of Amy Bonner. “I hope there’s more coming,” Hogan said last week.

In an era in which women are breaking into jobs traditionally held by men across the sports world — there are female assistant coaches in the N.B.A. and the N.F.L., for example, and last month Kim Ng became the first female general manager in Major League Baseball, with the Miami Marlins — men’s college sports, generally, have been slower to adapt.

For female basketball referees, men’s college basketball may be the bleakest of frontiers. In the N.B.A., four of the 70 full-time officials last season were women, the league said. In its developmental G League, 25 of 63 were women — a ratio similar to that of the W.N.B.A., where 11 of 27 referees in 2020 were women.

In college basketball, there are about 500 women officiating in Division I over all; all but Hogan and Bonner work in the women’s game.

The N.C.A.A. does not track how many women have ever worked Division I men’s games, but it might be counted on one hand. Only one, Melanie Davis, has officiated in the N.C.A.A. tournament, at a first-round game in 2002.

That was the year that Hogan began officiating. She was raised in Compton, mostly by her late grandmother, whose name is tattooed on Hogan’s wrist. She played many sports as a girl, but not much basketball until high school. She took to it quickly and earned her way to Compton College, a community college coached at the time by a former N.B.A. player, Louie Nelson, and became a leading scorer.

“Now that I look back, I never paid attention to the referees — never,” Hogan said. She laughed. “Maybe because I didn’t play defense, I don’t know.”

She was recruited to Long Beach State. Her playing career was disappointing, she said, but she earned degrees in psychology and criminal justice, leading to a job as a social worker in Los Angeles.

Part of Hogan’s job was accompanying police officers on raids and searches, figuring out the care and placement for any children swept up. She soon realized that she liked the law enforcement aspect, too.

She now works as a parole agent for California’s Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, overseeing about 40 cases, people who have served time for violent crimes. She visits them once or twice a month, occasionally arresting those who violate their parole.

“You have to know your surroundings, trust your training,” Hogan said, and there are times when she might be talking about either of her professions, or both. “But you know what? I’m from the city of Compton. I’ve seen quite a bit. I’ve heard quite a bit. But when you deal with people with respect, and show them respect, you get respect back.”

In 2002, a friend asked if Hogan would be interested in officiating, as a way to earn money and stay connected to basketball. In the scrambled hours between a full-time job and raising a daughter as a single mother, she went through the training and worked high school girls’ games, because that was where schedulers nudged her.

Her first game was with a heavyset partner who did not want to rotate into the prescribed officiating positions on the floor, as Hogan had trained to do, and who scolded her when she called a foul late in a blowout game.

“He yelled at me from way in the backcourt, ‘That’s not a foul!’” Hogan said. “I couldn’t believe it. In front of everybody. After that, I was so discombobulated. I was so embarrassed.”

She soon hardened from criticism (“I’ve learned to ignore things — nothing really bothers me anymore,” she said) and moved up to junior college women’s basketball.

She spent summers watching the Drew League, rooted not far from home, featuring street ball legends and pro players. In 2007 or 2008, she said, organizers pulled her onto the floor to officiate, calling games featuring the likes of LeBron James and Kevin Durant.

A highlight remains calling a foul on Kobe Bryant. Her phone holds a photograph of her officiating with a serious expression while Bryant smirks beside her.

About that time, Hogan said, she was approached by a men’s college basketball officiating coordinator.

“He says, ‘If you were a guy, I’d hire you today,’” Hogan recalled. She took it as a compliment. Back then, Hogan said, she had never heard of women officiating top-level men’s college games.

Over the next decade, she moved on to the N.B.A.’s development league and Division I women’s basketball, a résumé not unlike that of Bonner, a veteran of the W.N.B.A., the G League and international basketball. She was working the Drew League when she caught the attention of the veteran N.C.A.A. men’s official Donnie Nunez, who mentioned her to Bobby Dibler, the men’s officiating coordinator for six major conferences. Hogan was invited to a camp for officials in Las Vegas that took place during a major A.A.U. tournament.

“You don’t know when or where it’s going to happen, but you always end up in a game that’s extremely difficult or challenging to officiate,” Dibler said. “That’s where officials, unbeknownst to them, have a chance to shine — or, maybe, not shine so well.”

Dibler was in the stands when Hogan restored order to an unruly contest, keeping her wits and doling out technical fouls in the right places. Dibler was impressed. He asked his top officials: Would you work with her? Yes, they all said.

Verne Harris, a Division I official who also supervises referees in the Division II Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference, offered Hogan a job. She took it, thinking she had just swapped women’s Division I basketball for the chance to referee men’s Division II games.

Within weeks, though, came a call from Dibler. Hogan remembers precisely when it was — Aug. 15, 2018, at 1:02 p.m., as she drove east on the 91 Freeway, not far from where she grew up in Compton. “I mean, I could have been anywhere,” she said.

Dibler offered more than she dreamed: a spot working the Pac-12, Mountain West, Big West, Big Sky, West Coast and Western Athletic conferences.

“I almost had an accident,” Hogan said. “The magnitude of that — I knew it would be life-changing.”

Hogan spent the past two seasons proving herself in nonconference games, filling out her late-season schedule in the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference and in junior college games around California.

This season, Hogan will work major-college conference games in the West. “She’s earned that,” Dibler said.

While the N.C.A.A. has a Title IX mandate for gender balance among college athletes, there is no such initiative when it comes to officials. Disparities can be found in plenty of other places in college sports, like administration (where only a few of the 65 athletic directors in top conferences are women) and coaching (where, for example, every Division I national champion in women’s volleyball has been coached by a man).

J.D. Collins, the N.C.A.A.’s coordinator of officials for men’s basketball, said that he did not know many women striving to officiate men’s basketball, given that pay is roughly the same in women’s basketball and the pressure there is often less intense. The few women who have gone on to the N.B.A. have mostly come through the ranks of women’s basketball.

“I don’t think there is any opposition to it on the men’s side,” Collins said. “But it also requires a desire to come to the men’s side.”

Penny Davis, a longtime W.N.B.A. and women’s college basketball referee who oversees women’s officiating for the N.C.A.A., said she knew of only a couple of women with keen interest in working on the men’s side of college basketball. The style of play and the schedules are different enough that referees cannot easily bounce between the two.

“These young females, they just want to work,” Davis said. “And a lot of men’s Division I collegiate conferences are really top-heavy with veterans, and it’s hard for them to crack into that.”

Still, the number of women officiating women’s games is rising. Violet Palmer, considered a pioneer for being the first woman (along with Dee Kantner) to officiate in the N.B.A., in 1997, is the coordinator of women’s basketball officials for the Pac-12, Big West and Western Athletic conferences.

A decade ago, she said, about 30 percent of her officials were women. Now it is about 60 percent.

“We’ve taken giant leaps forward, which is amazing,” Palmer said. “Some of us are die-hard women’s basketball fans. We want to promote our game. We want young girls to see women working women’s games.”

Plenty want to see them working men’s games, too. When Bonner officiated a nonconference men’s game at Dayton last week, the Atlantic 10 Conference heralded it as a first for the league.

Hogan’s appearances are rarely noted. On a weeknight in February when she refereed a men’s game at Compton College, where she had played more than 20 years before, there were about 30 people in the gym.

During a dead ball, Hogan sidled up to a talkative player in need of a lesson in sportsmanship. One outburst later, she gave him a technical foul.

The player slunk away, lesson learned. His coach nodded, knowing it was the right call.

Hogan kept the game moving, just trying to make it fair for everyone else.





No.36 article:
Republicans Make Clear Their Georgia Senate Strategy: Attack Warnock

For the crucial Senate runoffs, the G.O.P. is focusing its attacks on the Rev. Raphael Warnock, portraying him as radical, a claim he has rejected but one that worked for Republicans in down-ballot races last month.

WASHINGTON — When Senator David Perdue of Georgia didn’t show up for a debate on Sunday night, he ensured two outcomes: Jon Ossoff, Mr. Perdue’s Democratic opponent, would enjoy free airtime unencumbered by attacks from his rival, and the other Senate debate that night would draw far more attention.

Handing Mr. Ossoff an open microphone, Republicans determined, was well worth the bargain.

As Georgians prepare to vote in two runoffs next month that will decide control of the Senate, there is little mystery as to which of the two Democratic candidates G.O.P. officials want to elevate as a target as they try to rouse their base: the Rev. Raphael Warnock, who is running against Georgia’s other Republican senator, Kelly Loeffler.

Ms. Loeffler made plain the Republican strategy when she called Mr. Warnock a “radical liberal” 13 times in their debate on Sunday evening. She repeatedly invoked his past criticism of police officers and a sermon in which he once said that “nobody can serve God and the military,” a theme that has roots in biblical passages.

Her plan of attack followed a similar portrayal by President Trump during his rally on Saturday in Valdosta, Ga., where Republicans played a video that likened Mr. Warnock to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, the Chicago pastor whose comments drew scrutiny to his relationship with Barack Obama in the 2008 campaign. The video included footage of Mr. Wright famously saying “God damn America.”

That same critique has been echoed by other Republican surrogates, who have spent more time focusing on Mr. Warnock than Mr. Ossoff.

“This is a man who celebrated Jeremiah Wright, the radical pastor who was so far to the left that even Barack Obama had to repudiate him,” Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas said during a stop in Georgia last month.

Making Mr. Warnock, the pastor of Atlanta’s storied Ebenezer Baptist Church, the face of the opposition for the Jan. 5 election — rather than Mr. Ossoff, a young white documentary filmmaker — represents a two-pronged strategy.

Spotlighting a Black candidate and linking him to the state’s most prominent African-American Democrat, Stacey Abrams, amounts to a strategy to motivate turnout among white conservatives, especially those who harbor racist views and are uneasy about Black leadership. Mr. Warnock would be the first Black Democratic senator from the South.

The run-against-Warnock approach, though, also takes a page out of the national Republican Party’s playbook for the 2020 campaign. Republicans found great success in down-ballot races, against mostly white candidates, by tying them to the most liberal figures and ideas in the Democratic Party — like defunding the police, which Mr. Warnock does not support.

These attacks, delivered without overt references to race, may prove enough to persuade the multiracial coalition of suburbanites who swung to Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the presidential contest to vote next month for the two Republicans and ensure a G.O.P.-controlled Senate.

“Both are political newcomers with thin paper trails,” the Republican strategist Liam Donovan said of the two Democratic candidates, “but Warnock gives you a lot more to aim at than Ossoff, especially on familiar themes that resonate with G.O.P. audiences. Ossoff is just too dull to make a useful political caricature of.”

Republicans have another imperative when it comes to Mr. Warnock: Because Ms. Loeffler spent much of her focus and money fending off Representative Doug Collins, a Republican, in the first round of voting last month in the Senate race, Mr. Warnock emerged from November with the lowest unfavorable ratings of the four candidates vying for the two seats.

Ms. Loeffler, who was appointed to her seat last December and is a first-time candidate, is seen by officials in both parties as the more vulnerable of the two Republicans; she has slightly underperformed Mr. Perdue in the small set of polling that has been released since the runoffs got underway.

Mr. Warnock recognized the onslaught coming his way and quickly released an ad previewing the attacks, suggesting Republicans would even claim he didn’t like puppies.

“I love puppies!” he declared as he stroked one in the commercial.

Mr. Warnock, though, did not have any such line at the ready on Sunday night to defuse Ms. Loeffler’s unrelenting portrayal of him as a radical. Instead, he sought to change the focus to his rival’s wealth and the stock trades she made while serving in the Senate this year.

Mr. Warnock said Ms. Loeffler “used her advantage as a U.S. senator to make millions on a pandemic while playing it down to the people she was supposed to represent.”

Mr. Warnock emphasized his commitment to unity — “I have worked my whole life to pull people together,” he said — and sought to reassure voters in what is still a right-of-center state that he supported police officers.

“Our law enforcement officers lay it on the line every day,” he said, adding that they “will have an ally in me.” Ms. Loeffler, though, did not let up.

“I’m not going to be lectured by someone who uses the Bible to justify division,” she said, referring to Mr. Warnock’s sermon about God and the military. Mr. Warnock responded by accusing Ms. Loeffler of distorting his words for “cheap political points” and said the sermon was about “a moral foundation of everything we do.”

What ultimately may drive the Loeffler-Warnock race, and perhaps both of the runoffs, is whether Republicans’ attacks remind Georgia voters of why they’ve demonstrated a longstanding preference for Republican senators, allowing them to put aside their distaste for Mr. Trump’s conspiracy-mongering.

This may depend in part on how Mr. Trump conducts himself after Dec. 14, when the Electoral College will formalize Mr. Biden’s victory. On Monday, Georgia officials recertified the state’s election results after a second recount affirmed Mr. Trump had lost.

“That strikes me as a pivot point,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, referring to the Electoral College deadline next week. He expressed the hope of many in his party that from that point on the two Georgia Republicans could run expressly on a message of “We need a firewall.”

For now, Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede defeat is denying the two Republicans the opportunity to run on this message; Ms. Loeffler demonstrated that in the debate when she refused to say Mr. Biden had won the presidency, for fear of alienating Mr. Trump and his fervent supporters.

Even if the Georgia Republicans can fully present themselves as checks on Mr. Biden, there are still risks in making Mr. Warnock their singular target. If the attacks have an air of bigotry, Republicans may turn off the coalition of moderates they are trying to win over in the runoffs. Many Georgians across racial lines are proud to claim a New South identity and may recoil from anything that smacks of overt race-baiting.

Further, the anti-Warnock messaging may energize Black voters, who make up approximately 30 percent of the Georgia electorate.

“Democrats have a hard time getting some of their African-American voters to come back when there’s not a presidential race at the top of the ticket,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster. “But African-Americans have never had an African-American Senate candidate to vote for either.”

Jim Galloway, the dean of Georgia’s political press and a longtime columnist at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, has warned about the risks for Republicans if they make the attacks too extreme.

He wrote in a recent column that the party “crosses a line” when it allows Mr. Collins to claim, as he did last month, that “there is no such thing as a pro-choice pastor. What you have is a lie from the bed of hell. It is time to send it back to Ebenezer Baptist Church.”

Mr. Galloway wrote: “I have been unable to decide which is more disturbing — referring to an African-American man as an “it,” or marking Ebenezer and its congregation as a den of satanic influence. But it is hard to walk either back — and with her silence, Loeffler has acquiesced to both.”

Pressed on this question in the debate on Sunday, Ms. Loeffler insisted she was not turning to racist appeals and, echoing Mr. Trump, said that “there is not a racist bone in my body.” She argued that Mr. Warnock’s beliefs — not his identity — were why voters should be fearful of Democrats controlling both chambers of Congress and the White House.

“What’s at stake here in this election is the American dream,” she said. “This is an attack on every single Georgian who gets up every day to work hard to provide a better life for their family.”

Mr. Warnock hit back: “She’s lied, not only on me, but about Jesus.”





No.37 article:
Israeli Soccer Team, Infamous for Anti-Arab Fans, Has New Co-Owner: a Sheikh

The barrier-shattering deal puts an Emirati royal at the helm of Beitar Jerusalem, the only Israeli team that has never fielded an Arab player and whose most extreme fans chant racist slurs.

JERUSALEM — A top-tier Israeli soccer team with a notoriously racist, Arab-hating fan base has sold a 50 percent ownership stake to a member of one of the royal families of the United Arab Emirates.

The barrier-shattering deal is among the first fruits of Israel’s nearly three-month-old normalization agreement with the Emirates and carries outsize symbolic importance: It puts a Muslim sheikh at the helm of Beitar Jerusalem, the only Israeli team that has never fielded an Arab player — and whose most extremist fans routinely chant virulent slurs like “Death to Arabs.”

The new co-owners, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, 50, and Moshe Hogeg, 39, an Israeli cryptocurrency executive who acquired the team in 2018, said in a telephone interview Monday night that their union was motivated in large part by the goal of combating exactly that sort of hatred.

“Our message is that we are all equal,” Mr. Hogeg said. “We want to show to young kids that we are all equal and that we can work and do beautiful things together. The message is more powerful than the football.”

Sheikh Hamad, a first cousin of the de facto Emirati ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, suggested Beitar could soon have an Arab member on its squad.

“The door’s open to anyone, for any talented player, no matter where he is from or what his religion is,” he said. “It should be based on merit.”

He said he opposed building walls between people. “We should teach them that we are taking a positive step towards peace and harmony,” he said.

Already, several prominent Arab players have expressed a willingness to break the Beitar barrier, said Uri Levy, a soccer writer who runs the sport news site BabaGol. (An Arab midfielder on the Israeli national soccer team, Diaa Sabia, was signed in September to the Al Nasr team in Dubai.)

Israeli liberals skeptical about the country’s normalization deals nonetheless found reason to cheer the conspicuous twist of the new alliance.

“The sale of Beitar to the Arabs is the clearest sign that God exists,” Noa Landau, the diplomatic correspondent for Haaretz, wrote on Twitter.

Many Arab commentators jeered, however.

Saied Hasnen, a sports radio host, called the deal “shameful.” He said that he opposed any Arab normalization of Israel, but particularly lamented the sheikh’s decision to go into business with Beitar, calling the team and its supporters “a sinful and dirty swamp of racists who hate Arabs — the worst people in society.”

Khalid Dokhi, the director-general of Bnei Sakhnin, Israel’s most successful Arab club, expressed mixed feelings. “If it leads to a change in the racist culture, that would be beneficial,” said Mr. Dokhi, whose team plays in an Arab city. “But if it doesn’t, it’s a waste of money.”

Sheikh Hamad’s investment appears to be to a giant leap forward in what has been a long and often tempestuous struggle by several team owners to tame Beitar Jerusalem’s ultra-right-wing fan base.

While other clubs have long fielded Jewish and Arab players, who regularly play together for the Israeli national soccer team, Beitar’s far-right supporters’ group, La Familia, agitated against such a move, sometimes violently. The club has regularly been fined and handed stadium bans for violent behavior as well as racist chants.

A Nigerian Muslim who joined the team in 2004 was regularly harassed and quit after less than a year. In 2005, La Familia protested over reports that Beitar might sign Abbas Suan, an Israeli-Arab who starred for Bnei Sakhnin. When he scored a vital goal for Israel in a World Cup qualification match against Ireland, Beitar supporters held up a banner saying, “Abbas Suan, you do not represent us.”

Another attempt was made in 2013 when two Muslim players, this time from Chechnya, were signed. Again there was violent opposition, captured searingly in the documentary “Forever Pure.”

When one of the Chechens, striker Zaur Sadayev, scored his first goal for the club to secure a 1-1 tie with rival Maccabi Netanya, hundreds of Beitar fans chose to leave the stadium in disgust rather than celebrate. The Chechen players lasted only a handful of games.

Mr. Levy, the soccer writer, said the film was a turning point. “It opened the eyes of many Beitar fans about the need to grow up and let go of this vicious, evil and ancient stance that has no place anywhere in the world anymore,” he said.

Maya Zinshtein, the film’s director, said it held up a mirror up to what she called Beitar’s “silent majority” — passionate but less extreme fans who she said were repulsed by the film’s depiction of La Familia’s overt racism and how it was sullying Israel’s image.

Ms. Zinshtein said a change could be seen last year after Beitar signed Ali Mohamed, a Nigerien Christian of Muslim lineage, who was eventually accepted. “You need to start from somewhere,” she said.

Moshe Zimmerman, a retired professor of sports history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said Beitar’s right-wing fans were confronting a double conundrum in the sale to Sheikh Hamad, “because the one to blame is the man Beitar admires most” — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who struck the normalization deal with the Emiratis.

But Mr. Zimmerman predicted that hard-core Beitar fans would find a way to make peace with their new co-owner. “They could say the Emiratis are the good Arabs and the others are the bad Arabs,” he said.

Sheikh Hamad said he planned to invest about $92 million into the club over the next decade.

In the interview, Mr. Hogeg said he had been drawn by the challenge of turning around Beitar’s reputation. “I thought it should be a great thing to do — to fix this and show the other side,” he said.

Mr. Hogeg said he had taken the trouble of obtaining the blessing of a leading Israeli ultra-Orthodox rabbi before going ahead with the deal.

Sheikh Hamad, asked how the deal had come together, responded simply: “God connected us.”

However divinely ordained, the pairing was of special significance to Mr. Hogeg, who said that as the son of a Tunisian-born father and Moroccan-born mother, he identified with Beitar’s heavily Mizrahi fan base, Jews with roots in North Africa and the Middle East — and, he said, with what he called “our brothers” in today’s Arab world.

“I see myself as an Arab Jew,” he said. “And for me, when I look at Beitar’s legacy, look at what they’re screaming all the time: ‘Yalla Beitar!’ What is ‘yalla’? It’s Arabic. They don’t say, ‘Go.’ They don’t say, ‘Kadima’” — Hebrew for “let’s go” — “They say, ‘Yalla.’ This is the most symbolic thing for me.”





No.38 article:
Supreme Court Hears Holocaust Survivors’ Cases Against Hungary and Germany

The justices struggled to decide whether a 1976 law that bars most suits against other nations allows Jewish victims to sue over the theft of their property.

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court, wary in the past of cases concerning conduct by and against foreigners that took place abroad, heard arguments on Monday over whether American courts have a role in deciding whether Hungary and Germany must pay for property said to have been stolen from Jews before and during World War II.

But the gravity of the human rights violations described in the two lawsuits persuaded a federal appeals court in Washington to let the two cases move forward. The Trump administration took issue with the rulings, filing briefs and presenting arguments supporting efforts to limit review in American courts.

The Hungarian case, Republic of Hungary v. Simon, No. 18-1447, was brought by 14 Holocaust survivors, four of them United States citizens, who said their property was stolen by Hungary and its state-owned railway, which deported hundreds of thousands of Jews to Nazi death camps in the summer of 1944.

Sarah E. Harrington, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, urged the justices to consider that historical context.

“Hungary took everything the plaintiffs owned, including possessions necessary to survive, such as shelter, clothing and medicine, and the undisputed purpose of Hungary’s takings was to bring about the physical destruction of Jews in Hungary,” she said. “That is genocide.”

The German case, Federal Republic of Germany v. Philipp, No. 19-351, concerns the Guelph Treasure, a trove of medieval religious art that was once owned by a consortium of Jewish art dealers in Frankfurt and that is now estimated to be worth $250 million. In 1935, the families of the dealers say, the consortium was forced by the German authorities to sell the collection for far less than it was worth.

The 42 pieces in the collection are now in the Museum of Decorative Arts in Berlin. In 2014, a German commission determined that the museum had acquired the collection legitimately and did not need to return it.

The commission said the 1935 sale was voluntary and came after a yearlong negotiation that resulted in a price about halfway between the two sides’ opening positions. The families said the consortium was coerced to sell in the face of sustained persecution.

Three-judge panels of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against both Hungary and Germany, saying the cases could proceed.

The basic legal question for the justices in both cases is whether the disputes should be resolved by American courts. A federal law, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, generally bars suits against foreign states. The law has some exceptions, including one for the expropriation of property, and American courts have sometimes declined to hear cases against other nations for fear that doing so would interfere with international comity.

Gregory Silbert, a lawyer for Hungary, said its courts should be allowed to address the matter.

“When a complaint alleges that foreign parties harmed other foreign parties in a foreign country, a federal court can decline jurisdiction in favor of a foreign tribunal,” he said. “Hungary should have the first opportunity to address these claims.”

The same would be true, he said, were the shoe on the other foot.

“We can all agree,” he said, “that the remedies for the worst injustices committed by the United States in the United States should not be decided by a Hungarian judge applying Hungarian law from a courtroom in Budapest.”

Benjamin W. Snyder, a lawyer for the federal government who argued in support of Hungary, took a position that frustrated several justices. He said the Supreme Court should leave open the possibility that courts should defer to foreign tribunals in the interest of international comity and return the case to lower courts to decide whether Hungary was entitled to such deference. But he would not say what they should do.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said that was a curious position given the executive branch’s expertise in foreign affairs.

“This is the perfect time for you to fill that void,” the chief justice told Mr. Snyder, who declined.

“The State Department simply doesn’t feel that it has sufficient information to provide the court with a recommendation,” Mr. Snyder said.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said he was puzzled as to why judges rather than diplomats should assess the international relations implications of allowing suits against other nations to proceed in American courts.

“There are almost 700 district judges,” he told Mr. Snyder. “You want every one of them to assess whether a particular lawsuit raises foreign relations concerns?”

Justice Elena Kagan also expressed misgivings. “Some might say that what’s going on here,” she said, “is that the State Department is expecting the courts to do the difficult and sensitive and some might say dirty work for you.”

She asked Ms. Harrington, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, about a similar case against Hungary in which an appeals court estimated that the potential damages could amount to 40 percent of its gross domestic product.

“So this is a suit that could essentially bankrupt a foreign nation,” Justice Kagan said. “Now that seems as though it’s screaming severe international friction.”

Ms. Harrington responded that her case, a potential class action, was at an early stage and that “it’s pure speculation at this point” to try to calculate her clients’ damages.

A supporting brief from Hungarian Holocaust victims argued that trying to sue in that country was pointless. It described a case brought there by a 92-year-old plaintiff whose suit was dismissed for lack of evidence beyond her sworn testimony and who was ordered to pay the government’s legal fees.

“The Hungarian court asked the impossible of the survivors, whom the concentration camps deprived of the means to prove with written documentation the property that was stolen from them,” the brief said.

In the German case, the justices focused on a different question: Does the exception allowing suits under the 1976 law for expropriation of property apply when a foreign government was accused of taking its own citizens’ property?

Edwin S. Kneedler, a lawyer for the federal government, said the exception for expropriation applied only to “the taking of a foreign national’s property.”

More generally, he urged the justices to consider the consequences of a broad ruling.

“This would put courts of the United States,” Mr. Kneedler said, “in the business of making sensitive judgments about the conduct of foreign governments, including perhaps some of our closest allies, and invite other countries to open their courts to claims based on situations in this country’s unfortunate past, where it has committed acts that everyone would now regard as violations of the law of nations.”





