No.1 article:
With 3 Billion Packages to Go, Online Shopping Faces Tough Holiday Test

The season is adding pressure on retailers, strained by a pandemic surge in e-commerce and limited by shippers, to deliver gifts on time.

E-commerce became a lifeline for consumers and companies during the pandemic. But this holiday season, online shopping will strain the industry as never before: An estimated three billion packages will course through the nation’s shipping infrastructure — about 800 million more than delivered last year.

This flood of packages is hitting shipping companies at the end of a year of frenzied demand for everyday household items by a public largely stuck at home and wary of doing its buying in person. The deliveries could make or break some smaller retailers already on the edge financially because of lockdowns and fewer customers in their stores.

Packages that don’t arrive by Christmas will be a disappointment for customers but a disaster for these struggling retailers, which have been forced by the coronavirus pandemic to rebuild their business around e-commerce. The future of retailing is increasingly online, and companies don’t want to give customers any reason to think they can’t deliver.

“Everyone is preparing for the worst and holding their breath,” said Ravi Shanker, a transportation analyst at Morgan Stanley. “It is far easier to lose at peak shipping than to win.”

To cope with the surge, the large shipping companies have expanded weekend deliveries and hired more workers. They have also played hardball with retailers, introducing steep holiday surcharges on shipments and enforcing strict limits on how many packages companies can send out each day.

FedEx and UPS, the biggest private carriers in the United States, have enormous leverage over how many packages will be delivered and when, and some retailers worry about pushing back against their demands for fear of being cut off.

But the carriers are also under pressure, largely from Amazon, which has been building out its own logistics business and is becoming increasingly independent in shipping. If more retailers falter this holiday, that only strengthens Amazon’s dominance.

By one accounting, 7.2 million more packages need to be shipped each day this holiday season than the system has the capacity to handle.

That figure came from ShipMatrix, which provides technology to the shipping industry. Its president, Satish Jindel, said expanded weekend deliveries were covering part of that shortfall, “but not all of it.”

“Demand exceeds capacity, no matter what part of the country you are in,” he said.

Many brands, both large and small, have yanked forward order deadlines for customers who want to receive items by Christmas and posted reminders on their websites to order early.

Beatrice Bakery in Beatrice, Neb., which expects to sell 750,000 pounds of fruitcake this holiday, set a cutoff of Dec. 9 — nearly a week earlier than last year — while the Disney Store is advertising a Dec. 10 deadline.

Typically, shipping volumes during the holidays are 30 to 40 percent higher than at other times of the year. But those levels were being reached this year long before people started buying Christmas gifts. Even Amazon struggled to keep up with the demand in the early days of the pandemic.

The shipping companies say they are better prepared for the holidays. FedEx said it was hiring 70,000 seasonal employees, and UPS said it would hire 100,000. That expansion pales next to the preparation at Amazon, which said it was building 100 new fulfillment warehouses, sorting centers and delivery facilities across North America. The company has hired 275,000 full-time and part-time workers since the start of the year and 100,000 seasonal workers to handle the increased volume.

Major shipping companies are also preparing to distribute coronavirus vaccines, though most of those shipments are not likely to start until next year.

Some retailers are already reporting delays.

Executives at Kendra Scott, the contemporary jewelry brand, said they had discussed rising sales during the holidays with UPS, but were told this week that deliveries would be delayed because of capacity issues. On Wednesday, an alert about the delays was at the top of the Kendra Scott website.

“I don’t know how it could be as unexpected as it appears to have been,” said Tom Nolan, the brand’s president. “We are not getting what we were told we would get when we embarked on our holiday season.”

Mr. Nolan said the delays were particularly frustrating because customers tended to blame the brands, rather than the shipping companies. “We’re paying a fee to a shipping provider to hold them to the expectations we have,” he said.

Kendra Scott employees scrambled, including moving goods to some of its 100-plus stores and warehouses that were closer to certain customers. But Mr. Nolan was uncertain about how the rest of the month would look.

“We’re trying to work that out now and anticipate, coming closer to the holidays, is this going to get better or going to get worse?” he said. “This is not a free service that we’re talking about. We pay a premium to get this done effectively, and the expectation is that it’s done effectively.”

One retailer that sells apparel and accessories has already been grappling with UPS’s capacity restrictions and surcharges, which can add several dollars to a package and increase its overall cost by 25 to 40 percent, according to two company executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing fear of retaliation from UPS.

The parcel limits were based on holiday volumes from last year, even though many more people are shopping online this year. Once a day’s quota is reached, remaining parcels must be pushed to the next day, the executives said, a move that can then snowball into other days.

Over all, delays have been relatively minimal so far, analysts say. A UPS representative said the carrier was “delivering previously agreed upon, collaboratively planned package volume, but there are limits on unplanned volume until we have capacity in our network that we can steer it toward.”

Still, many retailers are urging customers to pick up orders in stores or curbside.

Several major chains have begun partnerships outside the orbit of major carriers, offering same- or next-day delivery. Sephora and Best Buy have deals with Instacart, while Bed Bath &amp; Beyond teamed up with Shipt. But they are costly alternatives and capture a small slice of business.

Helena Price Hambrecht, a co-founder of Haus, an aperitif brand in Sonoma County, Calif., said she had been told that starting on Wednesday, the local FedEx truck would limit order pickups from her company to 500 per day through December. The company will use its own vehicles to drop off its remaining orders at FedEx hubs in the area.

“People don’t realize the dance going on behind the scenes, and this year it all really came to the surface because the more layers of supply chain you rely on, the more things can break,” Ms. Hambrecht said. “A lot of it is expectation-setting, but a lot of it is happening at the last minute because people are having last-minute situations come up. It really is the Wild West right now.”

When asked about Haus, FedEx said, “We work closely with our customers to understand their volume and identify opportunities to ensure the best possible service throughout the season.”

The shipping calculus for the smallest retailers leaves little margin for error. Doug Haney, who owns Bike Adirondacks, a cycling business in Saranac Lake, N.Y., ships his products though the U.S. Postal Service. This year, the shipping rates for smaller items like T-shirts and hoodies have gone up, and Mr. Haney is absorbing some of the costs.

“A $5 price point for shipping for a small order is what people want to spend,” he said. “Otherwise, it becomes unappealing.”

Shipping companies are walking a tightrope, too. In some past years, they were criticized for not having enough employees to handle the packages, leading to delays. But in other years, investors criticized them for hiring too many drivers and sorters, lowering profits.

“You have to match the resources with the volume,” said Mr. Shanker, the Morgan Stanley analyst. “It is easy to get that wrong.”

Consumers have been following unpredictable shopping patterns this year. Working from home, many started online holiday shopping earlier and during work hours. There were fewer online sales on Cyber Monday, after the Thanksgiving weekend, than analysts had predicted, leading some to believe that the shopping season is being spread out over many months and that a shipping crunch can be avoided.

“Some of this increased anxiety about shipping delays is real, and some of it might be manufactured,” said Dave Gill, vice president of Insights and Analytics for Rakuten Intelligence.

Richard Meyer, president of Beatrice Bakery, whose signature offering is Grandma’s Fruitcakes, said he thought shipping companies were placing the onus on the merchants to manage expectations. Last week, he received an email from a big carrier advising how to talk to customers about shipping issues.

“We are the ones that have to do the explaining,” Mr. Meyer said.





No.2 article:
Republicans Pushed to Restrict Voting. Millions of Americans Pushed Back. 

Almost 160 million people voted this year, as new options made necessary by the pandemic removed many of the traditional barriers to casting ballots. Will it change the way America conducts elections?

Nearly 160 million Americans voted in the 2020 elections, by far the most in history and a level of turnout not seen in over a century, representing an extraordinary milestone of civic engagement in a year marked by a devastating pandemic, record unemployment and political unrest.

With all but three states having completed their final count, and next week’s deadline for final certification of the results approaching, the sheer volume of Americans who actually voted in November was eye-opening: 66.7 percent of the voting-eligible population, according to the U.S. Election Project, a nonpartisan website run by Michael McDonald, a University of Florida professor who tracks county-level data.

It is the highest percentage since 1900, when the voting pool was much smaller, and easily surpasses two high-water marks of the modern era: the 1960 election of John F. Kennedy and the 2008 election of Barack Obama. Since the passage of the 19th Amendment in 1920, which gave women the right to vote and roughly doubled the voting eligible population, turnout had never surpassed 64 percent.

The shifts that led to this year’s surge in voting, in particular the broad expansion of voting options and the prolonged period for casting ballots, could forever alter elections and political campaigns in America, providing a glimpse into the electoral future.

A backlash from the right could prevent that, however. In many ways, the increase in voting is what Mr. Trump and the Republican Party are now openly campaigning against in their floundering bid to overturn his clear loss to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. — whose popular vote lead grew to seven million on Friday. Republicans have portrayed the burgeoning voting ranks as nefarious and the expanded access to voting options as ripe for fraud — despite the fact that the record turnout provided them numerous victories down ballot.

Though Mr. Trump and the party have not managed to prove a single claim of fraud in the courts — where they and their allies have lost or withdrawn dozens of cases — Republicans at the state level are vowing to enact a new round of voting restrictions to prevent what they claim — without evidence — is widespread fraud.

The swell in voting this year was powered by a polarizing presidential race and the many steps that election officials took to make voting safer — and therefore easier — during the coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, according to a recent poll from the Pew Research Center, 94 percent of voters said that voting in the November election was “easy.”

That ease in voting could also be read as “access.” The expansion of vote by mail, early voting, online registration and online ballot requests broke down many of the traditional barriers that sometimes kept people away from the ballot box. Others simply used long-existing laws as they sought to deliver a verdict on Mr. Trump’s four tumultuous years in office. 

The expansion of voting options also created a fall “election season” rather than a sole Election Day, a change that is likely to endure and force political campaigns to restructure fall operations with a greater emphasis on getting out the vote over a period of weeks.

“We opened the doors to access,” said Adrian Fontes, the top election official in Maricopa County, the largest county in Arizona, where, for the first time, more than 80 percent of the eligible population voted in the general election. It also flipped from Republican to Democratic for the first time in 72 years.

“I think the most telling number is the 165,000 in-person Election Day voters,” Mr. Fontes said about voter turnout in Maricopa County. “When you get over two million people casting a ballot and less than 200,000 of them are actually walking in on Election Day and casting a fresh ballot, that’s important.”

In interviews, election officials tempered their enthusiasm over this year’s turnout by acknowledging several only-in-2020 factors. Mr. Trump is a unique public figure who drew considerable personal enmity from voters opposed to him. He ran at a time of extreme economic and social upheaval because of the pandemic. And lockdown orders and mass furloughs and layoffs gave Americans more time to consume news — both on the internet and through the old-fashioned network newscasts, which had their highest viewership in more than a decade — increasing their engagement with the election.

“Voters really thought about how they were going to vote, and many had a plan and executed on that plan,” said Kim Wyman, the secretary of state in Washington.

Although election experts caution against viewing the expansion of mail voting as the sole driver of turnout, it is clear that states that increased mail balloting or went to a complete vote-by-mail system had the highest participation. States that did not offer expansive vote-by-mail options were on the lower end of the scale.

Hawaii, for instance, had the lowest voter participation in 2012 and 2016. But last year, it passed a universal vote-by-mail system, and last month, it experienced the highest voting increase in the country. Early voting increased there by nearly 111 percent compared with 2016, and the state’s turnout of 57.5 percent was up by more than a third over all.

Other states that encouraged voters to use existing mail options also saw their records increase. In Minnesota, which had the highest percentage turnout in the country at 79.96 percent, election officials mailed out ballot applications to every registered voter and ran an $830,000 voter education advertising program to explain options already on the books.

“There was no huge legal shift in the legal terrain, or some new method of voting that was not on the books before,” said Steve Simon, the secretary of state in Minnesota. “This was emphasizing and showcasing an option that had been there for a long time.”

In a sense, the pandemic brought with it the realization of a long-held dream of voting rights advocates. For decades, they have sought to increase turnout by making voting easier through provisions such as day-of-vote registration, early voting and voting by mail.

Their goal was to help the country overcome a stubborn, national problem: For the better part of the past century, fewer than 60 percent of eligible voters have participated in national elections, and in some years, turnout has been far lower — ranking the United States’ voter participation rate well below that of most of the developed world.

Democrats have been generally supportive of efforts to increase turnout. Polls and population data have repeatedly shown that the voters most affected by the difficulties of in-person, Election Day voting — transient workers, people who move often or low-wage single parents who can’t easily wait in long lines at polls on a Tuesday — traditionally vote more for Democrats than for Republicans.

Similarly, polling and census data show that Black Americans, Hispanics and young people — important elements of the Democratic coalition — are more likely to be nonvoters than are older white people, a majority of whom regularly vote for Republican presidential candidates.

The introduction of same-day registration and early voting, for instance, contributed to a surge in participation by Black voters in North Carolina in 2008, helping make Mr. Obama the first Democrat to win there since 1976. Republicans in statehouses there and elsewhere have spent the years since trying to place new restrictions on voting, at times running afoul of the courts.

In Harris County, home to Houston and 4.7 million residents, election officials opened up drive-through voting sites across the county as a safe way to vote during a pandemic. More than 130,000 voters used the option. County officials also created multiple 24-hour voting sites for shift workers, and roughly 10,000 voters used them to cast their ballots.

“A good chunk of them told us that they would not have voted any other way, that this made voting possible for them,” said Chris Hollins, the clerk for Harris County.

Voting rights advocates have long viewed vote by mail as an important remedy for low turnout, but only with changes that would make it easier without compromising security. In many states, absentee voting has come with certain strings such as requirements for excuses, witness signatures or even notarization.

Colorado, Utah, Washington State, Oregon and Hawaii have moved to nearly universal, mail-in voting systems and have had their turnout rates rise without any significant instances of fraud or irregularities.

“When we see vote by mail increase in any state, we simultaneously see a turnout increase,’’ said Amber McReynolds, chief executive of the National Vote at Home Institute and an architect of the vote-by-mail system in Colorado. “It’s about making the process more accessible.”

Mr. McDonald, the professor, said that the wider embrace of voting by mail could have a significant effect on down-ballot elections, which traditionally have lower turnout; high propensity voters, he said, would be more likely to vote in local, municipal or off-year elections if a ballot arrived at their homes.

Almost as soon as the coronavirus spread throughout the United States, Democrats pushed for the easier vote-by-mail provisions, arguing, for instance, that the acquisition of the witness signatures could be difficult during a pandemic, particularly for at-risk older voters who live alone.

Democrats in Congress sought to make a similar push nationally, but they ran into stiff opposition from Mr. Trump, who gave rare public voice to the idea that Republicans don’t want to make voting easier because that would make it harder for them to win. “They had things — levels of voting that, if you ever agreed to it, you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again,” he said in March.

In fact, Mr. Trump’s logic — that increased mail-in voting would automatically help Democrats — proved flawed. Several academic studies have found that mail voting does not necessarily give one party an advantage over another. In Georgia, for instance, the secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, said that Mr. Trump would have won his state had he not dissuaded his own voters from using mail ballots.

Georgia, which voted for a Democrat for president for the first time in nearly 30 years, had 67 percent turnout.

Of course, even as barriers to voting were toppled and a broad voter education effort spilled across newspapers, cable news and social media, some political operatives saw the expansion of voting as rooted in the singular force that dominated American politics for the past four years.

“Two words,” said Robby Mook, the former campaign manager for Hillary Clinton in 2016, in an email. “DONALD TRUMP.”





No.3 article:
The Epicenter

The Epicenter

She wears a red wig and a black dress she sewed herself. It hugs her body as she moves about the stage, lip-syncing love songs in Spanish to a room filled mostly with absence.

It is late on March 9, and Yimel Alvarado is at her regular Monday gig, a nightclub above a Mexican restaurant in the Corona section of Queens. This is where she feels at home, where the usually robust crowds of gay and transgender patrons applaud her teasing banter.

Drink up, she often says, as fans toss money at her feet. The night is getting away.

But Yimel is not herself tonight; hasn’t been for days. Her Cleopatra-like eyeliner only accentuates the exhaustion in her gaze. Just a cold, she says.

At some point, the concerned bar owner reaches for the tequila. The two friends knock back shots while, nearby, a few spare patrons kiss and huddle for cellphone selfies.

The same denial and dread hover over the densely populated neighborhoods beyond the restaurant’s door, inside apartments subdivided by drywall and need, up and down the bustle of Roosevelt Avenue.

In one building, an immigrant from Ecuador worries about the many relatives living in her cramped apartment, including her frail parents. A family member, her brother-in-law, has a persistent cough.

In another, a couple from Bangladesh gets a call from their daughter in her Ivy League dorm, who warns that they risk illness by going to work and sharing close air with strangers — her mother at La Guardia Airport, her father in his yellow cab. She begs them to stay home. They do not.

But an Uber driver is so haunted by the coughing of two recent passengers that he has stopped picking up fares. Thirty years ago in Nepal, he fled his life as a Buddhist monk, tossing his red robe under a tree. Now he prays as he disinfects his black Toyota.

Around the corner, a Thai chef who commutes by subway to Manhattan has been sending worried texts from work to his less-concerned partner at home. He frets about the growing number of confirmed cases in the United States.

Is it here? The deadly coronavirus?

At Elmhurst Hospital a short walk away, an emergency-room doctor has noticed a surge of patients with flulike symptoms. Now there is confirmation of what she and her colleagues knew was inevitable: the hospital’s first case of Covid-19, the life-threatening illness caused by the coronavirus.

It is here.

But messages conflict. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has declared a state of emergency, while President Trump continues to downplay the virus. A “containment area” is about to be established in the small city of New Rochelle, while a dozen miles south the hurried hustle of Manhattan flows uninterrupted.

Soon, this pinpoint on the map of Queens, where so many cultures converge, will become the global epicenter of the kind of health crisis not seen in the United States in a century. Very soon.

For now, the weary-eyed Yimel Alvarado continues her performance, fortified by little more than the dose of tequila. Determined but unwell, she mouths a ballad in which a woman addresses the wife of her lover.

Ahora es tarde, señora

Ahora es tarde, señora

Too late now, señora.

Just about two miles separate the 69th and 103rd Street stops on the 7 train in northern Queens. Yet beneath its elevated tracks sprawls the world.

Within this span are five neighborhoods in the Queens jigsaw — Woodside, Elmhurst, East Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Corona — whose combined histories reflect the evolution of New York: the Dutch and English settlements and the fields of wheat and corn, the railroad lines and the sprouting developments, the garden apartments for white Protestants only and the ash heaps immortalized in “The Great Gatsby.” Then housing for the masses, the faces ever changing.

To walk down Roosevelt Avenue now is to journey from the Himalayan peaks to the arid Mexican plains, to hear the music of intermingled languages and dialects, all within three dozen short blocks.

In the perpetual dusk cast by the subway tracks above, vendors sell woven baskets from Ecuador and leather sandals from Mexico, while Indian grocers display their produce and men carry skinned goats to halal butchers. Dentists and doctors offer their services from narrow storefronts, as do self-proclaimed healers, the curanderos, found among the statues and candles in religious-goods stores, available for counsel.

The lively rhythms of the street follow the percussive beat of cumbia, the thump of reggaeton, the call to prayer. Fueling it all is an international buffet of the sizzling meat tacos of southern Mexico, the steamed dumplings of Nepal, the Indian curries, the Peruvian ceviche, the Colombian buñuelos.

And everywhere, people. Many work the service jobs that animate the city: driving, cleaning, cooking, building — up at first light to line the subway platforms, hard hats and coffee cups in hand. Many are distrustful of authorities, or vulnerable to exploitation, or simply too afraid to call in sick.

By the tens of thousands, they spill from brick tenements with narrow courtyards, from small houses with grapevine gardens, from basement quarters with little natural light. If lucky, they live with family or friends; if not, they live among strangers, paying for a bed or maybe just a couch.

Imperfect conditions for social distancing. Perfect for contagion.

Yimel Alvarado lies sick in the gloom of her tiny bedroom, a crucifix on the wall above her head. Pink satin curtains are drawn against the late-afternoon light, five days after her cabaret performance in the upstairs lounge at El Trio restaurant.

Since then, a low-grade panic has taken hold in the city outside her modest Jackson Heights apartment. The subway turnstiles are being disinfected twice a day. The Diocese of Brooklyn has suspended Sunday Mass obligations for Catholics. The New York Police Department has alerted all of its precincts that Covid-19 is now categorized as a pandemic.

Capt. Jonathan Cermeli, the commanding officer of the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, cannot believe the abrupt change in events. Only a week ago, at a 12th birthday party for his son, friends were discussing an issue that seemed entirely unrelated to their lives.

You guys hear about this virus?

Now Mayor Bill de Blasio has declared a state of emergency. His office will say it was in frequent contact with the city’s hospitals and regularly briefed elected officials and the public. But two local City Council members, Francisco Moya and Daniel Dromm, complain of receiving little guidance from City Hall.

“We felt like we were on our own,” Mr. Moya will later say.

Yimel, 40, is also on her own.

Like so many undocumented immigrants, she has no health insurance, no primary-care physician to call. She has been refusing offers of help from her roommates — who see her as their nurturing mother — and has barely let on to family in Mexico that she is sick. She has relied on prayer and citrus-infused tea to treat what she has been sarcastically calling her blessed cough.

But now the woman always up for a sassy selfie is not answering her phone, and her text about a cough has spooked her younger sister in the Bronx, Olivia Aldama, who senses what this means: Her beloved Chiquis is sick.

Olivia, 34, finishes her shift at a dry cleaners and hurries by subway to Jackson Heights. She enters Yimel’s darkened bedroom to find her sister moaning in her sleep, her cellphone buried in the sheets. Her breathing is labored, her lips parched, her tongue like white paper; she needs to go to the hospital.

I’m here, Olivia says, hugging her. I’m here now.

Olivia may not know everything about the sibling in her arms. That Yimel slept on the streets when she arrived in New York about 20 years ago. That she was a sex worker, enduring verbal and physical attacks under the elevated tracks in Jackson Heights. That she may still be.

What Olivia knows is that her sister was identified at birth as a boy — a gender that Yimel later realized did not fit, but which she and her family still discuss as part of her past.

Growing up in Tlapa de Comonfort, a city in the mountains of southern Mexico, the child preferred playing dress-up with the family’s four daughters, incurring the wrath of their father. Tensions built up over the years until, one day, brimming with drink and shame, the man pulled out a knife and shouted, Kill yourself!

The only choice was to flee. But before being spirited across the border by smugglers, the teenager joined her mother in the cool of the Basilica of Guadalupe in Mexico City. There, the mother entrusted her own to the Virgin.

The new immigrant eventually found acceptance in Jackson Heights among gay and transgender people who had also fled intolerance in Latin America, and blossomed into Yimel Alvarado, who found her calling as an entertainer in the gay clubs around Roosevelt Avenue.

She has also become the bawdy, big-hearted matriarch of what is known as the Familia Alvarado, a tight-knit group whose members she has fed, clothed, counseled and often taken in. Over her apartment door hangs a sign that reassures: We Are So Good Together.

In recent years, though, Yimel has been going out less, gaining weight and drinking more. She often stays here in her bedroom, creating her glamorous outfits at a sewing machine, or sketching dress designs in a notebook. She also jots down comforting aphorisms she comes across.

Before giving up, try

And before dying, LIVE

Now, as Olivia struggles to help her sister sit up, a young Salvadoran man knocks on the door. He has been living in the apartment, sleeping on the couch, since Yimel learned that he was robbed at a homeless shelter.

Together they dress and guide the delirious Yimel toward the stairs. She sits and begins to ease herself down the steps, one by one — only to stop, exhausted.

A taxi is called. But the driver, suspecting that the woman slumped on the stairs has the virus, apologizes and leaves. In a fleeting moment of clarity, Yimel speaks: Call an ambulance.

The ambulance carrying another possible Covid case pulls up to the trauma entrance of Elmhurst Hospital. The salmon-colored colossus traces its roots back nearly two centuries to a penitentiary hospital on what is now called Roosevelt Island, which treated the incarcerated, the poor and the neglected long before this 11-story complex opened in 1957.

Others might see a drab municipal hospital short on amenities, tending to mostly the disadvantaged and uninsured. But Dr. Laura Iavicoli, 49, considers her safety-net hospital to be “the most magical place on earth,” with a skilled, committed staff and a diverse mix of patients who offer fresh challenges every day.

But never a challenge as daunting as this deadly virus, which first appeared late last year in the Chinese city of Wuhan, 7,500 miles from New York. Now it is here in Queens, where the recent confirmation of coronavirus cases at the hospital foretells dark days ahead.

At first the hospital considered itself prepared, with an interactive staff exercise about the virus in late January, a series of routine drills and access to four negative-pressure isolation rooms in the emergency department. Assumptions took hold, including that the virus would behave like other contagious diseases the hospital had prepared for but never seen, such as Ebola.

But assumptions are toppling. Influenza-like illnesses are rampant, while coronavirus cases are ticking up. And with access to testing severely limited, doctors are sending many patients, including some who may have Covid, home to isolate.

Hospital administrators are researching the 1918 influenza pandemic, communicating with medical experts around the world and meeting every night in a conference room to review models and statistics. But Dr. Iavicoli has become convinced that this virus cannot be outsmarted.

The hospital’s initial isolation plan — based on protocols from several countries and agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control — hinged on yet another assumption: that the coronavirus reveals itself with fever, coughing and respiratory distress. Now doctors are realizing that diarrhea and malaise can also indicate Covid, which means that some contagious patients may have been inadvertently missed.

Every day, more emergency department space needs to be repurposed as isolation zones. The area reserved for treating coughs and minor cuts is now Covid. The critical care area, originally with seven beds, will soon have 20, all for Covid.

Green oxygen hoses snake across the floor, while blue air-filter hoses rise to the ceiling. Sick people cluster at the entrance, slouch in chairs, lie on stretchers along the dull pink walls.

Now paramedics in protective suits wheel in another: Yimel Alvarado.

She is placed on a bed in the hallway, next to a young woman holding her stomach and crying out in agony. Briefly snapped from her delirium, Yimel looks over with evident compassion, but soon she is gone again, speaking in the language of hallucination as she stares at the hospital monitors in the corridor:

That’s why I don’t watch television. They keep changing the channel.

Without the oxygen she received in the ambulance, Yimel becomes weaker. A sip of water causes her to convulse in coughs, sending Olivia running for help. A nurse rushes over to check the oxygenation of Yimel’s blood.

Several hospital workers are soon gathered around Yimel. First in English, then in Spanish, they ask: Have you traveled? Have you had a cough? Have you had a high fever? For how long?

Olivia repeats the answers she heard her sister give to paramedics in the ambulance: No. Yes. Yes. Four days.

Yimel is wheeled beyond a set of glass doors. Hours later, a doctor emerges to inform Olivia that her sister is in critical condition with pneumonia and would be dead if she hadn’t been brought to the hospital.

Five days ago, Yimel was performing at a nightclub; now she is in intensive care. By morning she will be unconscious, intubated and encased in a plastic tent.

Earlier on this Saturday, Mr. Trump asserted that the country’s relatively low number of coronavirus-related deaths — about 50 so far, he said — was because of “a lot of good decisions.” Tomorrow he will describe the virus as “something that we have tremendous control of.”

But these upbeat assertions belie what is being experienced at Elmhurst Hospital, where Covid cases and flulike illnesses continue their ominous rise. Near midnight, Dr. Iavicoli talks by phone with two other emergency department supervisors, Dr. Stuart Kessler and Dr. Phillip Fairweather, to assess the damage of another harrowing day.

Dr. Iavicoli, who has expertise in emergency management, recommends an aggressive requirement that emergency department staff wear full personal protective equipment — gown, gloves, goggles and N95 mask — at all times.

The three doctors agree. Now the entire department is officially a “hot zone,” based on a new assumption: Everyone is likely to have Covid.

A stillness settles over the city. Events by which New York measures time — the St. Patrick’s Day Parade, for one — have been canceled. Schools for more than a million students are closed. Religious services are suspended. Transit hubs are empty. Skyscrapers are vacant. Broadway is dark.

Coursing through the quiet is a palpable anxiety, a collective bracing for the blow to come.

In the upstairs apartment of a two-family house in Woodside, Dawa Sherpa, the Uber driver from Nepal, tries to scrub away what he cannot see but fears is present.

He cleans the stairwell, where the shoes of his three sons, 18, 13 and 6, form a neat row up the steps. He cleans the bedrooms, the kitchen and the living room, which features a torn map of the subway system and a large Buddhist shrine with three key figures: Shakyamuni Buddha, Guru Rinpoche and Chenrezig.

On the altar sit seven silver bowls that are filled with water in the morning and emptied at night, a silver chalice brimming with an offering of amber-colored tea — and a large bottle of hand sanitizer.

Dawa is 50, short and husky, his black hair flecked with gray. Born in a speck of a farming village on a mountaintop in the Himalayas, he moved with his family to Kathmandu, then was sent at the age of 10 to a Buddhist monastery, where life became a spiritual boot camp of prayer, chores and study. Failure to know one’s lessons could result in a beating.

When he was about 20, he jumped over a monastery wall to see what was going on in the world. He never returned.

The former monk traveled to China to help his father’s import business, then to Japan, where he worked at a Toyota factory, and then, in 1996, to the United States, which he understood to be “a freedom country.”

He gravitated toward Jackson Heights, married Sita Rai, a woman he had met at a wedding in Kathmandu, and began assembling a familiar immigrant résumé: clerk in a school-supply store; cook in a Chinese restaurant; driver for a manufacturing firm; delivery man for Domino’s Pizza; taxi driver, working a 12-hour overnight shift.

Four years ago, Dawa switched to driving for Uber, shuttling customers around the tristate area in his black Toyota S.U.V. In recent weeks, he has listened constantly to the news radio station 1010 WINS in his car for updates on the pandemic’s progression.

Then, two weeks ago, two customers coughed in his back seat. He drove home and systematically wiped down the seats, the door handles, everything, in mists of Lysol spray. He hasn’t driven for Uber since.

And it may be a trick of the mind, but Dawa does not feel 100 percent.

Not a half-mile away, dozens of families flock to a commercial stretch along 73rd Street, a few steps from Roosevelt Avenue. This is the Little Bangladesh section of Jackson Heights, a medley of groceries, restaurants and shops that cater to immigrants from Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, Sylhet.

Gone for now are the days when men discussed news events in Bengali over samosas and tea, while women browsed the saris in the boutiques and children made difficult selections in the sweet shops. Gone is the sleepy air, redolent of spices.

Instead, uneasiness has set in, as people mill together in a determined search for food and supplies. With schools closed, children will be staying home, taking classes online for who knows how long. So mothers heap bags of rice and tins of oil into the family cars, while fathers carry out slabs of meat to store in newly bought freezers, as if stocking up for a lengthy siege.

All around, people are falling sick. A sergeant who analyzes crime statistics for Captain Cermeli at the 110th precinct. A jeweler who helps to run a soccer league in Corona. The pastor of St. Bartholomew Roman Catholic Church in Elmhurst.

Along and around 73rd Street, lines snake outside grocery stores, and some pharmacy shelves have been picked clean. The same scene is playing out in other areas nearby: Little India, Little Colombia, Little Manila. People who have known faraway conflict are steeling for war.

In a brick building in Corona, 11 members of an extended family from Ecuador, young and old, live in a three-bedroom apartment. Two are sick: Rosa Lema, 41, with a fever, and her brother-in-law, with a violent cough.

Now, late this afternoon — on a day when Mr. Cuomo announces a shutdown for much of the state — Rosa is notified by telephone that her mother, Vicenta Flores, has fainted during a dialysis session at Elmhurst Hospital, and a family member needs to take her to the emergency room.

Rosa, a petite woman with high cheekbones and sleek dark hair, spent days disinfecting the kitchen and the well-trafficked bathroom, with its shower handle for her parents to grip. She encouraged her mother, who is 77, to stay in her small room between dialysis appointments, and bought sugar-free Robitussin for diabetics to treat what she thought was her mother’s minor cold.

These precautions were futile. Rosa calls her brother Jorge, who lives nearby. He rushes to the hospital.

It was never the plan to jam so many people into Rosa’s apartment. To stuff the living room bookshelves with clothes. To pile dusty boots and sparkly children’s shoes outside the front door.

But a few months ago, Rosa’s sister Carmen and her family appeared at her door in Red Cross blankets after losing their home in a fire. So now six adults, five children, two cats and a dog live packed together, amid the discarded baubles that Vicenta has picked up while collecting cans for deposit money, which she sends to her mother in Ecuador.

Jorge calls back, worried; a line of more than 100 people is unspooling from the emergency room. Rosa tells him to alert the hospital staff that their mother is in a wheelchair, sick and listless.

Soon Rosa’s brother calls again, this time with a doctor who has questions. Has Vicenta had a fever? Has anyone else in the family been ill?

Yes. Both Rosa and her mother have not been feeling well. But if her mother has contracted the virus, Rosa wonders where. At the dialysis clinic? During visits to another Queens hospital where her 83-year-old husband, José Redentor Lema — Rosa’s father — had been recovering after complications from pancreatic surgery?

What about the living room, where Vicenta sits during the day, playing with the cats or stroking her granddaughters’ ponytails? At night the sofas become beds for Rosa’s sister, her husband and their twins; he is a tile layer who became ill when the virus swept through his construction crew.

At Elmhurst, hospital workers lift her mother onto a bed and wheel her away, leaving Jorge to take in the long trail of the sick and worried, some so depleted they are lying on the ground.

Rosa thinks about their mother’s toughness. Cooking corn cakes over open flames for the family in their hometown, Biblián. Raising six children while her husband traveled the country building roads. Then, when her children emigrated to the United States, raising some of their children.

Once she was in Queens, the tiny woman, not five feet tall, learned to navigate the big-city streets as she collected cans. She even emerged from a six-week coma after being struck by a car.

Ella va a estar bien. This is what Rosa will tell her siblings. She will be fine.

But what will she tell her father, who has recently been moved to a rehabilitation center? He is so attached to his wife of 52 years that he always asks the same thing if she is even a minute late coming home.

Where is Vicenta? Where is Vicenta?

A mile and a half away in Woodside, in another brick apartment building, Jack Wongserat, the chef, has shared his fears of the coronavirus with his partner, Joe Farris, who has not been as anxious. Until now. Jack has a 103-degree fever.

Theirs has been a New York romance: A Thai immigrant named Jack, short and compact, meets an Alabama native named Joe, tall and thin, in a bar on the Bowery in 2005. They engage in the pro forma exchange of telephone numbers, but then Jack surprises Joe by calling.

“He courted me,” Joe says.

In the city’s close-knit community of Thai cuisine, Jack, 53, is known as exacting but nurturing: rigid about hygiene and promptness and then, after the last curried dish has been served, available for a glass of Riesling and an encouraging chat with colleagues new to America.

Drawing on his own life — born in the Thai city of Ubon Ratchathani, losing both parents when he was young, emigrating in 1990 with no prospects — Jack tells them to be strong. He spins stories about his luck at casinos, and invites them to watch his beloved Giants and share spicy food he has cooked that will taste like home.

They nickname him Mama.

His partner, Joe, 58, grew up in the small city of Jasper and studied music at the University of Alabama. He taught English in Taiwan for a year, then moved in the early ’90s to New York. After a long stretch waiting tables, he shifted to market research, and now works as a project manager from the apartment he has shared with Jack for two years.

In one corner are Jack’s small shrine to the Buddha and a mismatched collection of china for the restaurant he hopes to open one day. In another corner sits the digital piano he bought for Joe to reignite his passion for music.

Now, on this Saturday morning, Jack is texting Joe from their bedroom.

11:43 a.m.: My test is positive

11:43 a.m.: Dr. said drink more water

11:45 a.m.: Take the Virus medicine

11:50 a.m.: Start separating fork spoon

11:50 a.m.: Use the mask protection

11:50 a.m.: Every time

12:07 p.m.: Sorry about that

The skies are leaden, a wintry mix falling. All in keeping with the mood of Queens.

Inside Elmhurst Hospital, Vicenta Flores is on a ventilator, unconscious and alone. Visitors are not allowed, but many in her family’s small apartment in Corona are too sick to see her anyway, including two grandchildren sharing a nebulizer meant for asthma. Rosa Lema, Vicenta’s daughter, is so ill that she has gotten tested for the coronavirus.

Meanwhile, the entertainer Yimel Alvarado remains sedated and on a ventilator in her clear plastic cocoon. With the help of an English-speaking member of the Familia Alvarado, her sister Olivia has been calling twice a day to check on Yimel, whose own test result has finally come in: positive.

Covid cases have all but overtaken the emergency department. Just weeks ago, the prevailing wisdom held that the hospital’s four negative-pressure isolation rooms could handle whatever infectious cases came in. The thought now seems absurd.

For Dr. Stuart Kessler, the emergency department’s director, the days are one protracted crisis under fluorescent lights. A Queens native who grew up in Bayside, seven miles to the east, he has hound-dog eyes and a seen-it-all air earned from decades as an emergency-medicine physician in big-city hospitals.

But he has never seen any disease progress like this virus, and he is urging peers around the country to reject conventional thought and prepare for something entirely unfamiliar. His words of caution do not seem to register. If you haven’t lived through it, he decides, you cannot understand it.

Outside the hospital, gunmetal barricades guide a trail of rain-battered people toward a testing site in a tent near the emergency department entrance. Bent beneath umbrellas, hunched against the cold, they form a daily column of dread.

Francisco Moya, the local councilman, drives past the line after delivering 1,000 face masks to the hospital where he was born 46 years ago and once worked as an administrator. The son of Ecuadorean immigrants who settled in Corona, he is a familiar, bearded presence around here, having also served as a community organizer and state assemblyman.

He is heart-stricken and angered by the sight of so many people, many of them uninsured immigrants, huddled in desperation. It seems like a scene from some war-torn country, not his own.

As the city’s confirmed cases double about every week, Mr. Moya is among those sounding the alarm. On social media and in calls to City Hall, he asserts that Elmhurst Hospital is over capacity and in dire need of doctors, nurses, ventilators and personal protective equipment.

It is true: Many in Queens are in short supply of nearly everything, save despair. But dozens of local organizations are working to fill the void.

A few blocks from Elmhurst Hospital, a young imam from Bangladesh is converting his mosque, An-Noor Cultural Center, into a makeshift storehouse; the prayer room’s carpet will soon be covered with donated halal food. With the wizardry of his 13-year-old son, he is also posting daily videos on social media to keep his isolated congregants informed.

In Woodside, an out-of-work contractor from Ecuador volunteers his services on Facebook to fellow congregants at Aliento de Vida church. “My brothers God bless you all,” he writes. “If anybody is in need of supplies or has an emergency and needs transportation, I offer to take you completely for free.”

And in Jackson Heights, an old Lutheran church hums with assembly-line precision. The building is now a Buddhist temple and headquarters for the United Sherpa Association, a resource for immigrants from Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan. Among its members is Dawa Sherpa, the Uber driver, who is active in its youth sports program.

On the second floor, where a white scarf, called a khata, is draped over a beam as a sign of welcome, volunteers are making care packages for the sick, homebound and scared.

They have been scrounging round-the-clock for gloves and face masks and hand sanitizer, with members in the import business calling contacts in Asia late at night. But they cannot seem to get enough of a once-plentiful item: Tylenol.

Joe Farris, who lives a short block from the Sherpa building, has been on the same quest. His partner, Jack Wongserat, is trying to stay fit during his illness, doing stretches on a blanket he has laid on the floor beside the bed. But his dry coughs are incessant.

Seeking to ease Jack’s pain, Joe walks the unnaturally quiet Queens streets in search of isopropyl alcohol, zinc, vitamin C tablets and Tylenol. None at the Duane Reade drugstore. None at the Walgreens. The best he can do is to secure two thermometers.

Joe is also unwell. He is coughing and has lost his sense of smell, which is said to be a Covid symptom. The other day he put his wrist to his nose and could not detect his cologne.

The two men at least have a plan. They wipe everything with alcohol swabs and keep separate silverware in plastic containers marked with their names. Joe sleeps in the living room.

Even so, Jack seems to be thinking ahead. While Joe putters in the kitchen where Jack’s spices take up four shelves, he hears his partner mutter alarming words as he shuffles past.

I’m not afraid of dying. I’m 53. I’ve had a good life.

Less than a mile to the north, in East Elmhurst, Mahdia Chowdhury is home from Cornell University and losing sleep in her family’s small second-floor apartment, in the bedroom she shares with her two teenage brothers.

Outside, the ambulances are so common that at night their lights paint her bedroom ceiling red. Inside, her father, Shamsul, is getting sicker by the day.

A few days ago, he stopped going to his mosque and returned the yellow Toyota Prius that he leased with a partner to a taxi garage in Long Island City, as she had begged him to do because of risks to his health. Too late.

Now, every night, he comes to her room to ask whether his “dysentery” — his term for a fever and diarrhea — means that he has Covid.

No, she fibs to reassure him. You’re fine.

Although her parents sleep in the same bed, Mahdia is not as worried about her mother, Tarana, 47, who still works serving food and cleaning up in the United Airlines lounge at nearby La Guardia Airport. It is mostly empty now, the once-constant roar of jets overhead all but silenced.

Her father is the one who concerns her. Setting aside her college assignments to research Covid symptoms, she has become convinced that he is infected and, as a diabetic and smoker, at great risk. He is 48.

Just days ago, Mahdia was in the library of her hilly campus 240 miles away, cramming for midterm exams. Now she lies awake as her brothers sleep. Shamsul seems weaker. He scarcely touches the rice the family leaves outside his bedroom door, beneath a talisman of a blue eye meant to ward off evil.

She thinks about their father’s quiet sacrifices. In the Bangladeshi city of Sylhet, he owned land and had a master’s degree. He was part of the privileged class.

The earnest and meticulous Shamsul gave all this up in 2009 to provide more opportunity for his children in the United States, where, instead of managing operations at a bank in Sylhet, he took Mahdia and her brothers to school every morning in the taxi he drove 10 hours a day.

He no longer seems as depressed as when they first arrived, though the family’s finances remain a worry. He fears that he became a New York cabdriver a generation too late; that the taxi industry was collapsing even before the pandemic; that he and his wife may never afford a house.

Now Shamsul shuffles to the bathroom in loose pajamas and flip-flops, shielding his eyes against the light. Do you think I have it?

Mahdia, petite and practical, her thick black hair kept at shoulder’s length, usually handles the family’s paperwork, a familiar job for a first child of immigrants. She will be the one to decide what to do.

Should she hold off on sending him to Elmhurst Hospital, rumored to be overrun? Or should she get him there while she can? She envisions herself frantically dialing 911 some night, only to find that all the ambulances have already been dispatched.

Another squalling ambulance hurries down their block, another sick person being taken away. From her window she has seen the used rubber gloves left by paramedics on the street.

Jack Wongserat demands to be handed a takeout container to fill an order. He becomes annoyed when one is not made available, then sits down to dial the telephone.

But there are no takeout containers. There is no telephone. Nor is he back working at a Thai restaurant in Manhattan on this cool and cloudy morning. Jack is in his Woodside apartment, in the throes of a delusion.

By tonight, much of the country will be disabused of any illusions about the virus, in part because of Jack.

His partner, Joe, settles him into a plush chair in their bedroom, then eases him onto the bed, hoping that he will sleep. But soon Jack is gasping for air. As Joe hurriedly turns him on his side, they both crash to the floor.

Joe dials 911 and tries to follow the dispatcher’s instructions for administering CPR. The ambulance, of course, seems to take forever.

The paramedics hurl the tan chair onto the bed to create room, then take Jack by stretcher down to the courtyard. As five medics wheel him to the ambulance, his stomach rises and falls in frantic measure to his search for breath.

Oh my dear, says a neighbor watching from her window. Oh no, oh my Lord, please bless him.

Racing to Elmhurst Hospital on foot, Joe finds Jack intubated and unconscious on a bed in the controlled frenzy of the overcrowded emergency department. Beds are wheeled past, including one bearing a patient who appears to be dead.

A drawn curtain in a corner provides minimal privacy for two men who have shared an Alabama-Thailand bond for 15 years. On the faint chance that Jack can hear, Joe talks.

Everything is going to be OK. You’re at peace.

A doctor explains that a sustained loss of oxygen has caused significant and permanent brain damage. He excuses himself to allow Joe time to decide whether everything or nothing should be done to keep Jack alive.

For Joe, the only option is the one Jack would want. He accepts and signs the Do Not Resuscitate form.

Sitting at the bedside of his life partner, Joe loses all sense of time. At one point Jack’s heartbeat becomes erratic, but a physician who rushes over is advised by a colleague not to assist: The patient is a D.N.R.

Jack’s heart stops. Two social workers appear by Joe’s side to provide comfort and a list of funeral homes. One recommends that he make arrangements immediately, given the sudden demand.

Jack Wongserat is one of 13 people to die at Elmhurst Hospital in the span of 24 hours. The hospital code for emergency intervention — “Team 700” — resounds over the loudspeaker, while a recently delivered refrigerated truck hums outside, prepared to receive.

The crush of patients is so great that emergency doctors and nurses are no longer donning fresh N95 masks every time they approach a new patient. It would take too long and burn through too many.

An Elmhurst Hospital doctor’s plea for help, conveyed in a video published by The New York Times, amplifies the increasingly grim situation. The doctor, Colleen Smith, says the emergency department is seeing 400 patients a day — nearly twice the normal complement — while supplies dwindle and crowds wait for medical assessments.

“This is bad. People are dying,” Dr. Smith says in the video. “We don’t have the tools that we need in the emergency department and in the hospital to take care of them.”

By nightfall, the borough of Queens — and, specifically, Elmhurst Hospital — will become known as the epicenter of the pandemic in New York, if not the United States. For many Americans, the coronavirus will move from abstract threat to real-life horror.

Epicenter. Over and over, the word will be repeated by the president and the governor, by newspapers and broadcasters. City officials will soon release data showing that these neighborhoods, interlocking ZIP codes containing the world, top the list of the worst-hit parts of New York.

But right now there is just Joe Farris alone, walking home through the gray afternoon. He heads down 41st Avenue, past a Spanish pharmacy, a Chinese church, and the old Lutheran church where people of Sherpa heritage are assembling Covid care packages.

He is in shock, his mind a jumble of every thought and no thought. All he knows for certain is that a pandemic in Queens has claimed his love.

The day of 13 deaths at Elmhurst Hospital was difficult, horrible, tragic. But for Dr. Laura Iavicoli, an associate director of its emergency department, that was not the worst day. The worst is two days later — today.

She is a self-described proud Philly girl whose shoulder-length black hair offsets her white lab coat. This is who and how she has wanted to be since elementary school, after her best friend was hit by a car and brain-injured, then saved by emergency physicians.

She is also highly motivated, someone who decompresses by working toward a black belt in mixed martial arts; whose idea of relaxing is to drink Colombian coffee, extra light, while working on her laptop in a cafe.

Relaxation is now a foreign concept. Since the outbreak of the coronavirus, she leaves her family’s Upper West Side apartment early, returns late and avoids talking about her day. No need to upset her three daughters, who are 12, 10 and 9.

This morning, Dr. Iavicoli straps on her black helmet and mounts her bicycle, a red and black Fuji Oval bought for $250 a week ago by her husband. It is a replacement for the stress-reducing jogs she no longer has time for.

She cycles through Central Park, over the 59th Street Bridge and into Queens, bound for her now-famous workplace.

Her pride in Elmhurst Hospital remains strong, but she is witnessing the institution being tested to its limits. One of her colleagues calls the situation apocalyptic; another will liken it to Dante’s “Inferno.”

Late in the afternoon, she hurries to join Dr. Kessler for another pandemic-related conference call, but on her way she is stunned by how the Covid sick have overtaken the emergency department. In beds, behind curtains, in the hall, in the waiting room, everywhere. She can barely see the pale tile floor.

Forget the conference call, she tells Dr. Kessler.

The two supervisors join the scrum of health care professionals working nonstop to hold a deadly virus at bay in one corner of Queens. They make bed checks, carry supplies, move patients — whatever is necessary. In this life-or-death theater, time becomes timeless.

When Dr. Iavicoli recalls this night in the days to come, her tough Philly persona will break as she describes a scene simultaneously frantic and methodical, stressful and cool: a scene of people working in concert to keep others alive. Doctors adjusting ventilators. Nurses calibrating drips. Teams scurrying to monitor oxygen levels, replace tanks and reposition patients to make breathing easier.

But giving it all is not always enough.

Before dawn this morning, a ringing cellphone disrupts sleep in the Bronx apartment of Olivia Aldama, Yimel’s sister. The caller is speaking in English, so she hands the phone to one of her teenage sons, now awake.

It’s Elmhurst Hospital. Yimel’s blood pressure has dropped and her breathing has slowed, he says. If her heart stops, as it did a few days ago, should they try to revive her?

Yes, yes, yes, Olivia says. Whatever they have to do.

They hang up, and Olivia waits in the dark. She last saw her sister nearly two weeks ago, the day after Yimel was hospitalized. She had waited in vain for 12 hours, hoping for an update on Yimel’s condition, before finally mustering her courage and slipping into the I.C.U. late that night.

The nurses didn’t even look up, which had Olivia thinking, God must have made me invisible.

There was her sister, sedated in a glass-sealed room. Even with tubes curling around her face, Yimel looked dignified, her chin raised, her eyes closed beneath thin, arched eyebrows.

The phone rings again. This time, a translation service for the hospital is calling to say that Yimel — her Chiquis — has died.

Olivia cannot go back to sleep. In a few hours, she thinks, she will ask someone who speaks English to call the hospital back to make sure it is true.

Later this morning, in a darkened bedroom in Corona, Rosa Lema lies awake in bedsheets damp from another feverish night. Her mind is spinning.

Her brother-in-law, the tile layer, has just left for the hospital with severe symptoms. Rosa’s test results have shown not only that she has the coronavirus, but also that she is pregnant.

Weak and short of breath, she does not want to move. But from her bed she hears a sound disrupting the apartment’s usual chattering hum. One of her daughters, sobbing.

Rosa manages to rise and walk into the living room. Her husband, who has just lost his job in construction, is crying; he takes her in his arms. Her sister Carmen, who has just lost her job as a house cleaner, has stopped making lunch and is comforting Rosa’s 9-year-old daughter.

Rosa takes in the scene, and she knows.

Their brother Jorge has called with devastating news: Se nos fue la vieja. We lost our old lady.

The family had heard little from Elmhurst Hospital since Vicenta was admitted and intubated a week ago. There was no warning that her condition had deteriorated. No chance to say goodbye, even by video.

Soon, the six children of Vicenta Flores will struggle to find a mortician to collect her body from the hospital, which is demanding that it be removed as soon as possible. They will have to have difficult video-call discussions about cremation, which, according to the consulate, is now the only way to send the remains of people who died of Covid back to Ecuador.

And they will have to decide when to tell their father, José, who remains at a local rehabilitation center, that his wife of a half-century is dead.

But right now, everyone is crying over the loss of their Abuelita. Carmen moves to embrace Rosa, but her sister turns and heads back to her bed.

Soon, from behind Rosa’s door, comes the sound of weeping.

It is nearly 3 in the morning when Dr. Iavicoli straps on her helmet. She guides her new bicycle out of an office, down an empty hallway and out into the stilled night.

With the white tent and refrigerated truck behind her, she cycles past a Mexican grocery, a couple of Thai restaurants, a Hindu temple, a Muslim cultural center, a tax service for Spanish speakers. Queens.

She knows that when she reaches her apartment, her husband will have laid out the hand sanitizer and the disinfectant wipes. She will throw her clothes in the laundry and take a hot shower.

She has 50 minutes before arriving at her doorstep to leave her pandemic-filled day behind. She thinks of what went well; what could have gone better, and how. She wonders when the death and sickness will end.

The doctor turns left onto Roosevelt Avenue, where the elevated subway tracks create a skeletal ceiling. She feels as if she is moving through some alternate universe. As if the great metropolis of New York were in paralytic shock.

Down city thoroughfares as quiet as country roads, then onto the cantilevered 59th Street Bridge. Dr. Iavicoli can see the East River murk through the metal grates beneath her tires, then parts of Roosevelt Island, where her cherished workplace began operating nearly 200 years ago.

She exits the bridge and glides as if in a dream through a silenced Manhattan. The rush of cool city air clears her mind, allows her to shed the day like a tossed lab coat.

Up First Avenue. Across 66th Street. Through the darkened sanctuary of Central Park to the Upper West Side.

Home.

Dawa Sherpa has been ill for more than a week. Coughing. Lethargic. No appetite. Struggling to breathe. His wife, Sita Rai, trails after him as he shambles around their Woodside apartment, wiping whatever he touches with disinfectant.

But he is so weak this evening that she calls for an ambulance. He makes his way down the gray-carpeted steps, past the descending row of the family’s shoes, and is winded by the effort.

Dawa is taken a half-mile to Elmhurst Hospital, which continues to develop in-the-moment protocols for what is now considered an ongoing mass-casualty event. The news last week of 13 deaths in a day has prompted an outpouring of support in donations of masks and other supplies. And, soon, patient transfers will ease the overcrowding.

But the publicity has also fueled a troubling misapprehension among some local residents, based on ominous things they have seen and heard. The refrigerated truck. The wailing ambulances. The long lines. The rhythmic thump of hovering news helicopters.

Word spreads that no one who enters Elmhurst Hospital comes out alive. The local rumor mill spins the 13 deaths into 15; 25; 1,000.

The false information has convinced some to face Covid on their own at home, armed with little more than tea and, with any luck, Tylenol. It can be a fatal decision.

But like many others, Dawa has chosen to trust the doctors at Elmhurst. He is led to a small area where others sitting in mismatched chairs draw oxygen from various devices. The hospital has no choice but to group the sick together.

Some are talking in Spanish on cellphones, some cry in fear. He shares their terror. He knows that another Uber driver from Nepal, a father of three, recently died of the virus in this hospital. That man was a year younger than Dawa.

The former monk is connected to an oxygen generator. To keep calm, he recites a prayer in his head that invokes and evokes the embodiment of the Buddha’s compassion:

Sol wa deb so la ma chen re zig,

Sol wa deb so yi dam chen re zig …

Queens can use the prayers.

The streets are deserted. Signs on the closed Himalayan Yak restaurant and the Popular Driving School, the Afghan Kebab and Grill and the S.M. Digital Sign &amp; Printing store, will all give the same reason: Due to the Covid-19 crisis …

Mr. Trump today only intensifies the apocalyptic mood. He has continued to downplay the crisis, but news reports from his home borough — he was raised in upscale Jamaica Estates, less than six miles from Elmhurst Hospital — seem to give him momentary pause.

“When I see the trucks pull up, to take out bodies — and these are trucks that are as long as the Rose Garden, and they’re pulling up to take out bodies — and you look inside and you see the black body bags.” he says. “And you say, ‘What’s in there? It’s Elmhurst Hospital. Must be supplies.’

“It’s not supplies. It’s people.”

Some local officials and neighborhood advocates are too furious to engage in macabre musings. They have been decrying what they see as the government’s failure to respond adequately to a pandemic in an immigrant community notorious for overcrowded conditions.

But everyone is forced to adapt, including Captain Cermeli of the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, where more than a third of the officers are out sick.

With his short-cropped hair and crisp white uniform shirt, Captain Cermeli, 39, exudes an embrace of order. In his precinct office, the arrangement of family photographs, the crayon drawings, the awards and honors, are all just so.

But how do you apply order to an invisible threat? To a Queens you grew up in, but now barely recognize: No streams of commuters pouring down the stairs from the elevated 7 train. No crowds making the pilgrimage to cheer the Mets at Citi Field. No shoppers at the Queens Center mall.

These days, his officers guard against burglaries in closed, untended storefronts. They cruise Flushing Meadows Corona Park, delivering reminders by loudspeaker to maintain social distancing. They stand sentry over those who have died at home until the bodies can be collected.

When he returns to his Long Island home at night, Captain Cermeli enters through the garage, showers and takes pains not to embrace his two children, 12 and 9.

Years ago, during an earlier tour, the captain found a glass-encased crucifix behind one of the 110th Precinct’s file cabinets. When he returned as commanding officer in February, he hung it on a wall in his office. Now he takes time to stand before the crucifix and, like Dawa Sherpa, pray for better days.

Keep my family safe. Keep my men and women safe. Keep me safe.

Dawa sits upright in a corner of the emergency room. He sits as Sunday night blurs into Monday, and Monday into Tuesday.

Now and then he stretches his legs, draping his black jacket over his padded chair to claim it. He asks the nurses who monitor his vitals if there is a bed, only to be told not yet. He feels hungry and is given a sandwich, but he is unable to eat. He gets by on juice and water and oxygen and prayer.

Sol wa deb so la ma chen re zig,

Sol wa deb so yi dam chen re zig …

Tuesday becomes Wednesday.

Finally, Dawa is led to a room on the third floor. He sheds his stale clothes for a gray hospital gown and eases into the comfort of a bed for the first time in four days.

His roommate, a man with the same virus, speaks only Spanish. Still, they exchange encouragement with simple gestures. A nod. A thumbs-up. A peace sign.

A gray Chrysler minivan makes its daily rounds. Its driver listens to anything that distracts, from sports to hip-hop to Johnny Cash. He drinks Gatorade now instead of coffee; he has enough trouble sleeping.

This is Tom Habermann, 34, manager and resident mortician of the Guida Funeral Home. Thin and exhausted, he wears jeans and a sweater instead of his normal work attire of somber black. Death is too common for any formality.

He spends these days driving from hospital to hospital, collecting bodies. There is no time for embalming, or choosing floral arrangements, or assembling pallbearers. There is only the sliding of body bags into the minivan’s hold, again and again.

The Guida Funeral Home, a family-owned anchor of Corona for more than a century, usually handles 100 or so deaths a year; it will nearly match that number in just eight weeks this spring. An answering service has been retained to handle the many calls from people begging for help, now that some parlors are refusing to accept virus victims or are too busy to even answer the phone.

Mr. Habermann and Eddie Guida Jr., the funeral home’s owner and his best friend from high school, do what they can. They see themselves as performing a grim but necessary duty at a time when the rituals of mourning have been upended. The last responders.

But the volume is too great. Hospitals and funeral homes do not have enough room for all the bodies; crematories and cemeteries do not have enough time. A local crematory recently offered: You can come next Friday — but bring only two.

Mr. Guida, 34, stocky and tattooed, has relied on his many connections. An uncle has a friend on Long Island who has provided a 54-by-8-foot refrigerated truck, and one of his cousins owns an empty lot nearby. That is where the parked truck now hums, the temperature set at 32 degrees.

Soon it will hold nearly 50 bodies.

Mr. Guida feels the pressure of stewardship for his family’s funeral home, which is old enough to have handled deaths during the 1918 influenza pandemic. He worries that the parlor will not be able to keep up with demand.

But Mr. Habermann is the one who has to collect the bodies. He then has to set the facial features of the dead for simple headshots that allow for both positive identification and some closure for families who have been denied wakes and viewings.

He drives his minivan to Elmhurst Hospital. To Flushing Hospital. To Coney Island Hospital. To Mather Hospital out on Long Island. Back to the funeral home. Then to the truck.

Sometimes Mr. Habermann listens to the radio as he drives. Sometimes he thinks about the apartment renovations that he and his wife never seem able to finish. Sometimes he wonders when death will become normal again.

Sometimes, at the end of the day, the professional facade cracks, and the mortician cries.

The news on this overcast day is not merely bad, announces the governor, Mr. Cuomo. It is terrible. New York State has just recorded its highest single-day death toll as a result of the coronavirus: 779. As more losses are counted in the coming months, the number will change slightly. But this span of days will remain a dark milestone: the virus’s deadliest time in New York.

The city has also released some new, disturbing statistics. The virus is killing Black and Latino people at twice the rate of white people.

“Every number is a face,” the governor says.

Since the outbreak began a little more than a month ago, the state has counted 6,268 fatalities. Mr. Cuomo notes that this is more than twice the number of lives lost in the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center.

But, he says, there is also “good news.”

The very concept seems so removed from life in Queens, where the only sounds during this somber Holy Week, when Christians commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus, seem to be ambulance sirens and the chirping birds of early spring. But city and state health officials have gleaned a pinhole of light in the enveloping gloom:

Daily admissions to intensive care units are down. Daily intubations are down. Hospitalizations are beginning to flatten.

The twinning of two simple words — good news — gives oxygen to hope.

Tracking these same trends is Israel Rocha Jr., the chief executive at Elmhurst Hospital, whose life has been a round-the-clock churn of crisis management and personal prayer. He all but lives in a conference room where the latest statistics are shared, the latest plans proposed, the latest worries expressed.

The hospital is testing well over 200 patients a day for the virus, with positive results climbing to an astounding 80 percent. At the same time, scores of its own workers are testing positive.

But Mr. Rocha, 42, has seen statistics similar to the ones informing the governor’s encouraging words. Sitting in his office, where an artwork on the wall declares that “Queens is the Future,” he has pored over reports showing that positivity rates at Elmhurst have plateaued.

For the first time in more than a month, it becomes slightly easier for the head of Elmhurst Hospital to breathe.

Evening approaches, the clouds part and a Covid patient at Elmhurst prepares to leave. Dawa, the Uber driver who was once a Buddhist monk, has spent the last nine nights in the hospital.

As he recovered, his roommate, who always returned his thumbs-up encouragement, had declined. One morning Dawa awakened beside an empty bed.

He sheds his hospital gown for his street clothes and signs the discharge papers. He considers walking, but realizes he hasn’t the strength. He takes an Uber the half-mile home.

A small stage materializes in a parking lot beside El Trio restaurant in Corona. Its scarlet cloth backdrop shields an old Chevy van from view. Headless mannequins in gowns of black and fuchsia stand like bodyguards at an exclusive outdoor affair.

A memorial celebration is being held for Yimel Alvarado, who created those gowns for her cabaret performances in the restaurant’s upstairs lounge, where she would lip-sync songs of love.

Close friends, the Familia Alvarado, have adorned the stage with vivid bouquets that offset the pavement’s gray. They recite the rosary and raise drinks in toast. Many wear face masks to guard against what might linger in the hot evening air.

While the coronavirus continues its indiscriminate spread across the country, here in New York it has taken an uneasy summertime pause, allowing for an approximation of normal life. Allowing Yimel’s family and friends to gather in her honor, albeit outdoors.

But the great metropolis remains shaken by the virus’s lethal supremacy; by tonight, health officials will have counted 18,787 confirmed deaths. And no corner of New York has felt its wrath more than the interlocking Queens neighborhoods of Corona, East Elmhurst, Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Woodside.

Tens of thousands are out of work. People stand in long food pantry lines while trying to maintain a safe distance. Many who are undocumented, and therefore ineligible for benefits, have turned to hawking wares from the sidewalks: tacos, pork rinds, flavored ices, face masks.

Most everyone knows someone who has died. In this eight-square-mile patch of Queens, about 1,400 people will have died from the coronavirus by the end of July. In just one elementary school in Elmhurst, nearly 90 students have already lost a parent or guardian.

Absence is everywhere.

In a crowded apartment in Corona, the Lema family mourns not one death, but two. Days after a funeral service on Staten Island for Vicenta, the family’s matriarch, her husband, José, died of the virus before being told of his wife’s death.

Two small urns containing their ashes sit on a chipped dresser in the bedroom they shared, with a statue of the Virgin Mary between them. Their pregnant daughter Rosa plans to take the urns back to Ecuador. She is waiting for the necessary paperwork — and the birth of her son.

In Woodside, Joe Farris continues to adjust to life without his partner, Jack Wongserat. For a few weeks he slept on the living room couch, unable to enter their bedroom, much less remove the chair that medics had tossed on the bed while tending to Jack.

Jack’s many pairs of sneakers still fill the shoe rack near the front door, and the pieces of china for the restaurant he never opened sit in a glass case. The Buddha-figurine gold necklace that Jack wore the day he died rests in a place of honor.

But Joe is making progress. He plays Buddhist meditation music, practices forms of stress reduction and sleeps in the bed he no longer shares.

Many recovered. Some experienced minor symptoms. Some endured what seemed like an especially bad flu. Some came so close to dying that they will feel the breath knocked out of them for months.

After being discharged from Elmhurst Hospital, Dawa Sherpa spent weeks recuperating. Now, while his wife works, he cares for their three sons — the youngest cartwheels through the apartment — and volunteers at the United Sherpa Association, preparing care packages for those still in need.

He has not returned to driving for Uber.

Shamsul Chowdhury, the bank officer from Bangladesh who became a taxi driver in Queens, has also recovered, but his family has not gone unscathed. Three relatives died, and every other member of his household fell ill: his wife; their daughter, Mahdia; and two sons.

So many of his taxi-driving colleagues were lost to the virus that there is talk of a memorial. But Shamsul, too, has given up driving for hire; soon he will have a new job as a mail handler for the United States Postal Service.

Mahdia is now working as an unpaid intern for a state senator’s office — her tasks include helping constituents apply for unemployment insurance — and will return to Cornell in the fall.

The virus has brought about other changes. Elmhurst Hospital has held virtual meetings to reassure residents and dispel misconceptions. It has improved ways of providing updates on patients’ conditions, and helped to establish the clinical protocols for treating Covid, forged in the hellish days of March.

Not that those days are forgotten. Here and there are modest tributes: a photo of a well-liked mechanic outside a bicycle-repair shop; a black ribbon in a bakery window; a votive candle’s quivering flame.

But as the city anticipates a resurgence of the virus, one that will approach frightening levels by late fall, the worry is whether the warnings have been heeded. Will the lesson — that overcrowding helped make Queens an epicenter of the worst pandemic in a century — have been learned?

Up and down Roosevelt Avenue, fliers taped to the elevated subway columns advertise rooms newly available in basements, in subdivided apartments, in dwellings within dwellings. They flutter in the city breeze.

Outside El Trio on this hot and humid July evening, the rosaries have been said, a mariachi band has performed, and a black box containing Yimel’s ashes has been placed on the red-cloth stage.

Her younger sister Olivia, the last family member to see her alive, wears a T-shirt depicting Yimel as an angel in a fabulous red gown. Olivia has lost her job at the dry cleaners; her arms are now tanned from selling bottled water in a park.

She calls her mother, Concepción Alvarado, in Mexico. Soon the gray-haired woman appears on the cellphone screen, beside the altar she has set up in Yimel’s honor outside a cinder-block house. There, on a plate, sits her daughter’s favorite pastry.

The mother cries, and wipes her tears with a rag.

As the sky-blue evening gives in to the cerulean night, grief cedes ground. Members of the Familia Alvarado disappear, only to return in sequined gowns and caftans. Elevated by their platform shoes, they vamp and sing of love and defiance.

Shots of tequila are raised up and knocked back, as people erupt in shouts of Que viva Yimel! The celebration of life in a drab parking lot in Queens continues well past midnight, into the hope and uncertainty of another day.





No.4 article:
The Elderly vs. Essential Workers: Who Should Get the Coronavirus Vaccine First?

The C.D.C. will soon decide which group to recommend next, and the debate over the trade-offs is growing heated. Ultimately, states will determine whom to include.

With the coronavirus pandemic surging and initial vaccine supplies limited, the United States faces a hard choice: Should the country’s immunization program focus in the early months on the elderly and people with serious medical conditions, who are dying of the virus at the highest rates, or on essential workers, an expansive category encompassing Americans who have borne the greatest risk of infection?

Health care workers and the frailest of the elderly — residents of long-term-care facilities — will almost certainly get the first shots, under guidelines the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued on Thursday. But with vaccination expected to start this month, the debate among federal and state health officials about who goes next, and lobbying from outside groups to be included, is growing more urgent.

It’s a question increasingly guided by concerns over the inequities laid bare by the pandemic, from disproportionately high rates of infection and death among poor people and people of color to disparate access to testing, child care and technology for online schooling.

“It’s damnable that we are even being placed in this position that we have to make these choices,” said the Rev. William J. Barber II, a co-chairman of the Poor People’s Campaign, a national coalition that calls attention to the challenges of the working poor. “But if we have to make the choice, we cannot once again leave poor and low-wealth essential workers to be last.”

Ultimately, the choice comes down to whether preventing death or curbing the spread of the virus and returning to some semblance of normalcy is the highest priority. “If your goal is to maximize the preservation of human life, then you would bias the vaccine toward older Americans,” Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the former Food and Drug Administration commissioner, said recently. “If your goal is to reduce the rate of infection, then you would prioritize essential workers. So it depends what impact you’re trying to achieve.”

The trade-off between the two is muddied by the fact that the definition of “essential workers” used by the C.D.C. comprises nearly 70 percent of the American work force, sweeping in not just grocery store clerks and emergency responders, but tugboat operators, exterminators and nuclear energy workers. Some labor economists and public health officials consider the category overbroad and say it should be narrowed to only those who interact in person with the public.

An independent committee of medical experts that advises the C.D.C. on immunization practices will soon vote on whom to recommend for the second phase of vaccination — “Phase 1b.” In a meeting last month, all voting members of the committee indicated support for putting essential workers ahead of people 65 and older and those with high-risk health conditions.

Historically, the committee relied  on scientific evidence to inform its decisions. But now the members are weighing social justice concerns as well, noted Lisa A. Prosser, a professor of health policy and decision sciences at the University of Michigan.

“To me the issue of ethics is very significant, very important for this country,” Dr. Peter Szilagyi, a committee member and a pediatrics professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, said at the time, “and clearly favors the essential worker group because of the high proportion of minority, low-income and low-education workers among essential workers.”

That position runs counter to frameworks proposed by the World Health Organization, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, and many countries, which say that reducing deaths should be the unequivocal priority and that older and sicker people should thus go before the workers, a view shared by many in public health and medicine.

Dr. Robert Redfield, the C.D.C. director and the nation’s top public health official, reminded the advisory committee of the importance of older people, saying in a statement on Thursday that he looked forward to “future recommendations that, based on vaccine availability, demonstrate that we as a nation also prioritize the elderly.”

Once the committee votes, Dr. Redfield will decide whether to accept its recommendations as the official guidance of the agency. Only rarely does a C.D.C. director reject a recommendation from the committee, whose 14 members are selected by the Health and Human Services secretary, serve four-and-a-half-year terms and have never confronted a task as high in profile as this one.

But ultimately, the decision will be up to governors and state and local health officials. They are not required to follow C.D.C. guidelines, though historically they have done so.

There are about 90 million essential workers nationwide, as defined by a division of the Department of Homeland Security that compiled a roster of jobs that help maintain critical infrastructure during a pandemic. That list is long, and because there won’t be enough doses to reach everyone at first, states are preparing to make tough decisions: Louisiana’s preliminary plan, for example, puts prison guards and food processing workers ahead of teachers and grocery employees. Nevada’s prioritizes education and public transit workers over those in retail and food processing.

At this early point, many state plans put at least some people who are older and live independently, or people who have medical conditions, ahead of most essential workers, though that could change after the C.D.C. committee makes a formal recommendation on the next phase.

One occupation whose priority is being hotly debated is teaching. The C.D.C. includes educators as essential workers. But not everyone agrees with that designation.

Marc Lipsitch, an infectious-disease epidemiologist at Harvard’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health, argued that teachers should not be included as essential workers, if a central goal of the committee is to reduce health inequities.

“Teachers have middle-class salaries, are very often white, and they have college degrees,” he said. “Of course they should be treated better, but they are not among the most mistreated of workers.”

Elise Gould, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, disagreed. Teachers not only ensure that children don’t fall further behind in their education, she said, but are also critical to the work force at large.

“When you talk about disproportionate impact and you’re concerned about people getting back into the labor force, many are mothers, and they will have a harder time if their children don’t have a reliable place to go,” she said. “And if you think generally about people who have jobs where they can’t telework, they are disproportionately Black and brown. They’ll have more of a challenge when child care is an issue.”

In September, academic researchers analyzed the Department of Homeland Security’s list of essential workers and found that it broadly mirrored the demographics of the American labor force. The researchers proposed a narrower, more vulnerable category — “frontline workers,” such as food deliverers, cashiers and emergency medical technicians, who must work face to face with others and are thus at greater risk of contracting the virus.

By this definition, said Francine D. Blau, a labor economist at Cornell University and an author of the study, teachers belong in the larger category of essential workers. However, when they work in classrooms rather than remotely, she said, they would  fit into the “frontline” group. Individual states categorize teachers differently.

Dr. Blau said that if supplies are short, frontline workers should be emphasized. “These are a subset of essential workers who, given the nature of their jobs, must provide their labor in person. Prioritizing them makes sense given the heightened risk that they face.”

The analysis, a working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research, is in line with other critics, who say that the list of essential workers is too wide-ranging.

“If groups are too large, then you’re not really focusing on priorities,” said Saad B. Omer, director of the Yale Institute for Global Health, who worked on the vaccination frameworks for the W.H.O. and the National Academies.

The essential workers on the federal list make up nearly 70 percent of the American labor force, the researchers said, compared with 42 percent for the frontline workers. Women made up 39 percent of frontline workers and, in certain occupations, far more. Frontline workers’ education levels are lower, as are their wages — on average, just under $22 an hour. The proportion of Black and Hispanic workers is higher than in the broader category of essential workers.

Some health policy experts said that to prioritize preventing deaths rather than reducing virus transmission was simply a pragmatic choice, because there won’t be enough vaccine initially available to make a meaningful dent in contagion. A more effective use of limited quantities, they say, is to save the lives of the most frail.

Moreover, vaccine trial results so far show only that the shots can protect the individuals who receive them. The trials have not yet demonstrated that a vaccinated person would not infect others. Though scientists believe that is likely to be the case, it has yet to be proved.

Harald Schmidt, an expert in ethics and health policy at the University of Pennsylvania, said that it is reasonable to put essential workers ahead of older adults, given their risks, and that they are disproportionately minorities. “Older populations are whiter, ” Dr. Schmidt said. “Society is structured in a way that enables them to live longer. Instead of giving additional health benefits to those who already had more of them, we can start to level the playing field a bit.”

But to protect older people more at risk, he called on the C.D.C. committee to also integrate the agency’s own “social vulnerability index.”

The index includes 15 measures derived from the census, such as overcrowded housing, lack of vehicle access and poverty, to determine how urgently a community needs health support, with the goal of reducing inequities.

In a new analysis of the states’ preliminary vaccine plans, Dr. Schmidt found that at least 18 states intended to apply the index. Tennessee, for one, has indicated that it will reserve some of its early allotments for disadvantaged communities.

Still, some people believe it is wrong to give racial and socioeconomic equity more weight than who is most likely to die.

“They need to have bombproof, fact-based, public-health-based reasons for why one group goes ahead of another,” said Chuck Ludlam, a former Senate aide and biotech industry lobbyist who protested putting essential workers ahead of older people in comments to the committee. “They have provided no explanation here that will withstand public scrutiny.”

Further complicating matters, the different priority groups discussed by the C.D.C. committee are overlapping — many essential workers have high-risk conditions, and some are older than 65. Some states have suggested that they will prioritize only essential workers who come face to face with the public, while others have not prioritized them at all.

Even some people whose allegiance lies with one group have made the case that others should have an earlier claim on the vaccine. Marc Perrone, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents 1.3 million grocery and food processing workers, said that despite the high rate of infection among his members, he thought that older adults should go first.

“Here’s the thing: Everybody’s got a grandmother or grandfather,” Mr. Perrone said. “And I do believe almost everybody in this country would want to protect them, or their aging parents.”

But Dr. Nirav Shah, Maine’s top public health official, said he respectfully disagreed, repeating the explanation he had given his in-laws — who are older but in good health and able to socially distance.

He said: “I’ve told them: ‘You know what? I’m sorry, but there are others that I need to get this vaccine to first, so that when you guys get vaccinated, the world you come back into is ready to receive you.’”

All these plans are, of course, unfurling with essential information still unknown.Many state officials said that as on-the-ground realities emerge, they fully expect their plans to evolve.

One uncertainty: given the high rates of apprehension swirling around this vaccine, how many people in the early groups will actually line up for it?

“If a high proportion of essential workers decline to get the vaccine, states will have to quickly move onto the next group anyway,” said Dr. Prosser, the University of Michigan health analyst. “Because once the vaccines arrive, they will have to be used in a certain amount of time before they degrade.&quot;





No.5 article:
Walter E. Williams, 84, Dies; Conservative Economist on Black Issues

Skeptical of antipoverty programs, he was a scholar who reached a wide public through a newspaper column and books, and as a fill-in for Rush Limbaugh.

Walter E. Williams, a prominent conservative economist, author and political commentator who expressed profoundly skeptical views of government efforts to aid his fellow African-Americans and other minority groups, died on Tuesday on the campus of George Mason University in Virginia, where he had taught for 40 years. He was 84.

His daughter, Devon Williams, said he died suddenly in his car after he had finished teaching a class. She said he had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hypertension.

As a public intellectual, Mr. Williams moved easily between the classroom and public forums that gave him wide reach. He wrote a syndicated column, lectured across the country and frequently appeared on the radio as a substitute host for the ardently conservative Rush Limbaugh.

The author of about a dozen books, including “The State Against Blacks,” Mr. Williams was the subject of a 2014 PBS documentary, “Suffer No Fools,” in which he maintained that antipoverty programs were subsidizing “slovenly” behavior.

“The welfare state has done to Black Americans what slavery could not have done, Jim Crow and the harshest racism could not have done — namely to destroy the Black family,” Mr. Williams declared in “Suffer No Fools.”

Mr. Williams was somewhat overshadowed by Thomas Sowell, a better-known Black economist turned social and political commentator and a colleague with whom Mr. Williams maintained a long friendship (and whom he once interviewed as a stand-in host on the Limbaugh program). But he made himself heard nevertheless.

He argued that many well-intentioned government programs, including the minimum wage and a law that in effect mandates union wages on federal construction projects, hurt disadvantaged Americans, particularly Black people.

In an influential essay, “Minimum Wage, Maximum Folly,” published in 2007, he argued that a minimum wage (it was $5.85 at the time) came with “legally mandated fringe benefits such as employer payments for Social Security, Medicare, unemployment compensation, and worker-compensation programs at federal and state levels” that “run as high as 30 percent of the hourly wage.”

“Put oneself in the place of an employer,” he wrote, “and ask: Does it make sense for me to hire a worker who is so unfortunate as to have skills enabling him to produce $4 worth of value per hour when he is going to cost me $8 an hour? Most employers would see doing so a losing economic proposition and not hire such a worker.”

Mr. Williams contended that the civil rights legislation championed by President Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1960s had actually worsened race relations by seeking an “equality of result” — in terms of voting rights and bans on discrimination — rather than an equality of economic opportunity, which he said might better have lifted more Black Americans out of poverty and dependence on public welfare programs.

He had his critics on the liberal side. In 1981, in a Q. and A. face-off with Mr. Williams in the opinion pages of The New York Times, Benjamin Hooks, the president of the N.A.A.C.P. at the time, was unsparing in his assessment of Black conservatives like Mr. Williams.

“Black conservatives are basically a carbon copy of white conservatives,” Mr. Hooks said. “They object to affirmative actions designed to overcome preferences long accorded to white males; they object to busing, as one effective remedy for rectifying a school system that has been deliberately and historically segregated; they object, in some ways which are difficult for me to understand, to government spending to meet human needs and to assist poor people. They seem to favor a sub-minimum wage, which would have some people working for a salary that would, upon receipt, put them below the poverty level.”

Mr. Williams also opposed affirmative action programs and proposals to pay reparations to Black people for slavery. (“The problems that Black people face are not going to be solved by white people,” he said.) And he could be blunt in taking on liberal leaders in the Black community.

“Racial discrimination and racism in our country could have earned a well-deserved death,” he once said, “but it has been resurrected by race hustlers, or poverty pimps as I call them, such as Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and many others in the civil rights movement who make a living on the grievances of Blacks.”

Walter Edward Williams was born on March 31, 1936, in Philadelphia. His father, Walter, worked in masonry, and his mother, Catherine Morgan Urchette, was a housekeeper. His neighbors included Bill Cosby.

“My father deserted my mother when, I guess, I was 2 or 3 years old,” he said in an interview in 2006. Walter and his sister, Catherine, were raised by their mother in a public housing project in North Philadelphia.

In his youth Mr. Williams was an indifferent student, but he was always eager to earn money. Among other jobs, he picked blueberries, shoveled snow, washed dishes and, at 10, shined shoes. At 13, he found menial work for a women’s hat manufacturer. There he taught himself to use the electric sewing machines, only to be fired when a seamstress complained to the authorities that his employment violated child labor laws.

An after-school job at a small brokerage house led him, in his midteens, to buy a few shares of Pepsi-Cola stock, whose price he followed in the financial pages of The Philadelphia Bulletin.

After graduating from high school, Mr. Williams made a brief sojourn with his father to Los Angeles, where he enrolled in Los Angeles City College. But after a falling-out with his father, he moved back to Philadelphia and drove a taxi to pay for night classes at Temple University. Through another driver, he met his future wife, Conchetta Taylor, known as Connie.

Mr. Williams was later drafted into the Army. At Fort Stewart in Georgia, he later recalled, he discovered that President Harry S. Truman’s 1948 executive order banning discrimination in the armed forces had done nothing to prevent Black soldiers from being assigned the most menial jobs.

Mr. Williams proved a rebellious soldier. Once, when ordered to paint a truck, he painted all of it, including mirrors and tires, and then explained his action to his superior officers in a mock-obseqious manner, using what he called “my best Stepin Fetchit routine.”

Mr. Williams was eventually ordered to Korea, but before he shipped out, he and Ms. Taylor married.

His wife died in 2007. In addition to their daughter, Mr. Williams is survived by a grandson.

At his new post in South Korean, Mr. Williams once checked “Caucasian” on an official form to avoid an unpleasant assignment — he wound up a postal clerk — and wrote letters to various officials complaining of racial discrimination. (The Philadelphia Independent, a newspaper with a largely Black readership, published one of his letters on the front page.)

Returning to California after his discharge, Mr. Williams enrolled at what is now California State University, Los Angeles. Intending to study sociology, he switched to economics after encountering the work of W.E.B Du Bois, who argued that capitalism was a major source of racism. Mr. Williams later said that he came to see economics “as a struggle for liberty.”

After receiving his bachelor’s degree, Mr. Williams moved on to the University of California, Los Angeles, where he collected master’s and doctoral degrees.

At one point in his pursuit of a Ph.D., he was shocked when he flunked an economic theory exam and was told that a paper of his was among the worst in the class. The experience helped shape his thinking about race.

“It convinced me that U.C.L.A. professors didn’t care anything about my race: They’d flunk me just as they’d flunk anyone else who didn’t make the grade,” he wrote in his autobiography, “Up From the Projects” (2010).

Until then his political leanings had been liberal; he believed, for example, that higher minimum wages unquestionably helped poor people. But a professor asked him to weigh good intentions against real-world effects and pointed to the work of, among others, the University of Chicago economists Yale Brozen and Milton Friedman. (Mr. Williams would go on to appear in Mr. Friedman’s PBS series “Free to Choose” in 1980.)

He returned to Temple University in 1973, this time to teach. He remained on the Temple faculty until 1980, when he moved to George Mason University, where he served for a time as chairman of the economics department. For many years he was an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute, the conservative think tank in Washington.

He began writing his syndicated newspaper column in the early 1980s. It was eventually carried by 205 newspapers and websites.

In the 1970s, during a yearlong stint at the conservative-leaning Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University, Mr. Williams was commissioned by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress to study the ramifications of a minimum wage and of the Davis-Bacon Act, which mandated that laborers in federal construction projects be paid no less than the locally prevailing wages for corresponding work on similar projects in the area.

He outlined his findings in a 1977 report: A minimum wage causes high rates of teenage unemployment, especially among minority workers, and actually “encourages racial discrimination.”

He concluded, he recalled in an interview with The New York Times for this obituary in 2017, that the Davis-Bacon Act had “explicit racist motivations.”

Suppose, he said, that there are 10 secretaries, five of them white and five of them Black — all equally qualified — who are applying for a job. “If by law you must pay them all the same wage,” he said, “it doesn’t cost anything to discriminate against the Black secretaries.” Without such a mandate, he suggested, the Black secretaries would have a better chance at being gainfully employed, even if at lower pay.

In his book “The State Against Blacks” (1982), Mr. Williams was similarly critical of a host of government measures involving labor — from taxicab regulations to occupational licensing — that in his view wound up disproportionately harming Black people in the name of preventing discrimination.

Mr. Williams traced his political evolution to his days at U.C.L.A., when he had turned away from liberal orthodoxies.

“I probably became a libertarian,” he said, “through exposure to tough-minded professors who encouraged me to think with my brain instead of my heart.”





No.6 article:
After Perilous Atlantic Journey, Migrants Await Their Fate in Canary Island Hotels

The Spanish government has put migrants up in hotels as the islands struggle to cope with a rise in arrivals from Africa, but tensions are fraying with locals who fear they’ll scare off tourists.

PUERTO RICO, Spain — After braving the Atlantic on a rickety and overcrowded fishing boat for six days, a group of young Senegalese has spent the past three weeks in a three-star hotel in the Canary Islands, overlooking a spectacular beach lapped by pristine waters.

While relieved to have survived their perilous journey to the Canary Islands, which has become the most deadly crossing from Africa into Europe for migrants, the six young men also know that their hotel stay is not a fairy-tale end to their odyssey.

“After this crazy trip, I am happy to be alive, but I really have no idea how long I can stay here and where I can go next,” said Ousseynou Diop, 19, who boarded the fishing boat in the Senegalese port of Saint-Louis on Nov. 1.

About 20,000 migrants have reached the Canary Islands so far this year, despite several deadly shipwrecks off Senegal and other African countries, as well as some that occurred just as the boats were reaching the shores of the Spanish archipelago. At least 568 people have died while crossing from Africa to the Spanish islands between January and late November, according to the International Organization for Migration.

The sudden influx of migrants has caught the Spanish authorities flat-footed, even though rights activists and other experts had been warning that traffickers were likely to divert to the Canary Islands after an increase in patrols virtually shut down many Mediterranean routes into Europe, notably from Libya.

Instead, Spain is now pressuring its partners in the European Union to establish a system to distribute migrants equitably across member countries, and asking Morocco and other African nations to take back those without a legal claim to remain, at a time when travel restrictions related to the coronavirus have greatly complicated deportations.

“We are the southern border of Europe, not of Spain,” Hana Jalloul, Spain’s migration secretary, said in a video conference call with a group of foreign correspondents late last month. Other European countries that receive fewer migrants “should take into account our situation,” she added.

The steady influx of migrants is hitting Spain as the coronavirus has stifled its economy, particularly its cornerstone, tourism. Since March, the Canary Islands have only seen a fraction of the 13 million tourists who came last year for the beaches and the mild climate, much in demand during the European winter. In October, there were 88 percent fewer foreign visitors than in the same month last year.

Since the summer, as an emergency solution, the Spanish government has moved about 6,000 migrants from tents in Arguineguín, a port on Gran Canaria, one of the main islands of the archipelago, to 17 hotels that have been shuttered by the pandemic, several of them in the beach town of Puerto Rico.

The move was initially welcomed by local hoteliers, who received about 45 euros, or $55, a day from the authorities in return for providing food and lodgings for each migrant, but tensions have built up as the flow of arrivals has shown no sign of easing.

Late last month, hundreds of residents demonstrated to demand the departure of the migrants, saying that their presence could deter European tourists as the winter season starts.

“We should put them on planes and send them home, because we have people living here who have invested a lot of money to fill this beautiful place with tourists, and certainly not migrants,” said one of the protesters, Teresa García Llarena, a pensioner and former employee of a car rental company.

The island’s main association of hoteliers did not back the protest, but its Dutch president, Tom Smulders, said that “this crisis situation has got as far as it could go” and he urged Spain’s government to evacuate all migrants from hotels by the end of the year.

The mayor of the municipality that includes Puerto Rico, Onalia Bueno, warned in an interview that tour operators could soon stop offering stays in Puerto Rico and other Canary Island resorts because of the “wrong image” given by the migrants. “Tourism and migration are simply not compatible,” she said.

Even though tourists now occupy only 7 percent of the hotel beds operated by members of his association, Mr. Smulders forecast that the number of holidaymakers from northern Europe would rise rapidly once airlines reopened more routes to the archipelago. The Canary Islands have maintained a low level of Covid-19 infection, he said, by following strict lockdown rules and also requiring all visitors to test for coronavirus before traveling.

“Winter is our main tourism season, and when you come as a tourist, you don’t want to be next to a building that is filled with migrants,” said Mr. Smulders.

Spain’s government is led by a Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, and the regional government of the Canary Islands is also Socialist-led. But the politicians have struggled to coordinate their response to the islands’ migration crisis. The archipelago’s politicians say the central government reacted too late and is now scrambling to rebuild infrastructure that was unnecessarily dismantled after 2006, when the islands last witnessed a mass influx, with about 36,000 arrivals that year.

Once the Mediterranean became harder to cross for migrants, “We had the capacity to do a lot more to prepare for this, but I think that somebody in Madrid thought that the Canary Islands had somehow magically changed their location on the map and migrants would never get here again,” Noemí Santana, the regional minister for social rights in the Canary Islands, said in an interview.

While adult migrants are the responsibility of the central government, Ms. Santana and her officials act as legal guardians for about 2,000 underage and unaccompanied migrants scattered across several youth centers.

Their number has quadrupled since January and, like the adults, the children are mostly Moroccans. Many first traveled from inland Morocco to the shores of the Western Sahara, a longstanding territorial conflict area where hostilities recently resumed.

Saïd, 16, and his cousin Mohamed, 17, left their town of El Kelaa des Srarhna, northeast of the tourism hub of Marrakesh, to reach Dakhla, in the Western Sahara, where they then boarded a boat bound for the Canary Islands.

Saïd said his elder brother paid traffickers about €1,000 for his trip. “The young people in Morocco can now only look forward to misery, because there is the coronavirus, so really no way to work and earn money,” said Saïd, whose full name cannot be disclosed under Spanish rules that protect underage migrants.

Saïd and his cousin are in a youth center with a makeshift prayer area, a soccer pitch and leafy surroundings, in the grounds of an abandoned farmhouse.

One of the directors of the local nongovernment association running the center, Enrique Quintana, said his job at times felt like “looking after vulnerable babies,” because “migrating to another country with a different language and culture means that you really start again from zero, whatever you might have achieved before in your life.”

Like all his companions from Senegal in the Puerto Rico hotel, Mr. Diop barely spent time at school and instead became a fisherman when he was 12.

However, he said he struggled to survive, with Covid-19 restrictions hurting the local fishing industry, already under pressure from Chinese trawlers operating in Senegalese waters.

Mr. Diop said he left Senegal without telling his family and now hoped to get travel documents to reach Madrid, whose most famous soccer team, Real Madrid, he loves. But underlining his lack of preparations, he sounded surprised to learn that Madrid was a landlocked capital.

“If I cannot fish in Madrid, I will do anything else that gets me money,” he said. “I don’t recommend that anybody try to get to the islands like I did by boat — it’s far too dangerous — but I also don’t want to be back in Senegal, where we sold our sea to the Chinese.”





No.7 article:
How a Home Health Aide Spends Her Sundays

Multiple showers, multiple buses, multiple patients, multiple masks and gloves.

Keisha Gourdet has worked as a certified caregiver for Royal Care, a home care agency, for six years. “Not everyone can do this,” she said. “A lot of people have quit and resigned since the virus started.”

But as the pandemic threatens the city with a second wave and the mayor is advising at-risk New Yorkers to limit activities outside the home, Ms. Gourdet remains committed. “My patients need my help. I would feel I’m neglecting them if I didn’t show up.”

Ms. Gourdet, 44, lives in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, on the top floor of a two-family house with her husband, Handal, 45, an M.T.A. bus operator, and two of their three children; Precious, 17, and Simara, 16. Her son, Kadeem, 20, is in the Navy in California. Ms. Gourdet’s work routine is especially grueling on Sundays.

HEALTH FIRST I have a rough start; I’m up at 4 a.m. I shower, dress and make sure to have a healthy breakfast of oatmeal, fruit, orange juice and daily supplements. I want a strong immune system. I leave the house wearing two masks and gloves, with a P.P.E. suit, extra gloves, shield mask and can of Lysol in my bag.

COMMUTE I catch the 5:45 bus and take that to my patient’s home. The bus makes me nervous because it’s so dirty. I spray myself and the seat because it’s really important I don’t pick up anything.

NO HUGS My patient lives in Brooklyn, and I’m there by 6:30. I put on new gloves, spray myself and get into my uniform before walking in. I’ve been coming here several days a week for three years. He’s really nice with a good sense of humor. He’s 53 and a diabetic. Five years ago he fell, and a car hit him. It gave him balance issues, and now he walks with a cane. He’s one of three patients I take care of. I used to hug him hello, which I can’t do anymore because that’s dangerous. We both feel badly, like something has been taken away.

MORNING TASKS At 7 I set up his breakfast, then get him ready for his shower. I help him brush his teeth, get dressed and ready for the day. Then he has cereal, eggs, bread and fruit. At 7:45 he watches the news. He’s in the bedroom and I’m by the dining room so that we’re social distancing. At 8:30 we take a short 15-minute walk so he can get some air and exercise.

COOK, CLEAN For the next few hours I cook for him; vegetables, rice, peas and beans. I do his grocery shopping on Saturday. Everything is only a block away so that’s good. Then I clean the whole apartment. I don’t want him to get sick so I make sure everything is sanitized. Everything right now feels really stressed.

A GOOD PLACE Over the years he has become like family. In the beginning it was rocky. He didn’t want anyone telling him what to do. Now we’re at a good place. Since we can’t touch, we high-five with gloved hands. Then I say, ‘Don’t be a stranger; if anything happens call me.’ I don’t want him to feel left alone because I know he gets depressed when I leave.

SHOWER AND SANDWICH 11 a.m. is the end of my shift. In the hallway I spray myself, get out of the uniform and put it in a plastic bag. I throw out the masks and gloves and put on a new set. I get back on the bus and spray everything. I race home; I only have 45 minutes, so I take off my clothing by the front door, run upstairs, shower using Dettol, an antibacterial liquid soap, and get dressed. My husband has already left for work. My daughters are home. I say a quick hello and tell them I love them. I eat a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and drink a glass of milk and then I leave.

IN TRANSIT, AGAIN At 12:30 I catch another bus, which I take to Church Street. Then it’s two subways to my next job, which is at a nursing home in Queens. I look for empty cars and get in the one with the least people. There’s so much back and forth. I don’t have a rest period, it’s overwhelming.

THE AFTERNOON GIG I’m at the Midway Nursing Home by 2:20ish. Everything is sanitized again. I take my temperature to make sure I don’t have a fever. I sign in and am given new masks, gloves and protective gear. There are seven floors. One is for those who have the virus. One is for people getting over it. The others are for rehab, long-term stays or my floor, which is for the elderly who have dementia.

MULTIPLE PATIENTS I have 10 patients, and I say hi to each one. Some are happy to see me; some are in bad moods. For the next several hours I run around attending to everyone. I do check-ins, find out who needs a shower, who is getting what for dinner and make sure everyone gets dressed for bed. The staff on my floor are really nice. Everyone is there to help. It’s the only way to function well.

BEDTIME At 9 everyone gets a snack: Jell-O, banana, yogurt or ice cream. Bedtime is at 9:30. After I put everyone to bed, I do computer work for the next 90 minutes and log in who got a shower and who ate what.

EXHAUSTED At 11 I clock out, take off my P.P.E. suit and face shield. I throw out the gloves and mask and put new ones on and walk to the train. Only a few are running, so it can be a 20-minute wait, which is horrible because I’m so tired. It’s one of the worst parts because I just want to go home and see my husband. I wait for the second train, then the bus. Everything is sprayed. I’m exhausted.

TEA I get home at 1:15 a.m. and shower again. I have a hot cup of lemon zinger tea and go to bed. My husband is already asleep. It’s hard not to see him. We’ve both picked up extra shifts since the virus started. It’s been very tough, but we’re going to get through this.





No.8 article:
‘Selena: The Series,’ Dreaming of Her

The Grammy-winning singer Selena Quintanilla-Pérez died in 1995, at age 23, at a Days Inn in Corpus Christi, Tex., shot in the back by the president of her first fan club. Her unfinished fifth album, “Dreaming of You,” topped the Billboard 200 three months later.

An artist who recorded mostly Tejano music — a regional fusion of corrido, mariachi and polka rooted in South Texas — and who died on the verge of broader success, Selena is arguably as popular in 2020 as at any moment during her life. In her first hit song, “Como La Flor” (1992), she compares herself to a withering flower. But more than 25 years after her death, Selena fandom blooms and blooms and blooms.

Drake wears her airbrushed face on a T-shirt. Cardi B covers her songs. Beyoncé identifies as a fan. In downtown Corpus Christi stands a life-size bronze statue of Selena, dressed in bustier and motorcycle boots — an outfit much like the one the Smithsonian sometimes displays.

Selena’s signature style — long bangs, red lips, arched brows — has become as archetypical as the looks of other pop mononyms, like thin Elvis or “Purple Rain” Prince or “Blonde Ambition” Madonna. Earlier this year, MAC Cosmetics announced its second Selena-inspired collection. Pieces from the release sold out in one minute.

On Friday, Netflix released the first part of “Selena: The Series,” nine episodes — of a planned 18 — that follow the singer’s tour bus-driven journey. A gentle show, tailored to the rhythms of a family dramedy, it takes Selena (Madison Taylor Baez as child Selena, Christian Serratos as the young adult) from baby crooner to bedazzled pop idol. Offering intimate details of her childhood and family life, the show portrays Selena as both a typical American girl and a born superstar.

“This is not a documentary,” Suzette Quintanilla, Selena’s sister and an executive producer, said cheerfully. “It’s sprinkled with a little bit of glitter.”

Selena’s career burned bright and brief, like a backyard sparkler. Born in Lake Jackson, Tex., in 1971, to second-generation Mexican-American parents (her mother, Marcella Quintanilla, also has Native American ancestry), Selena was the youngest of three children. In 1981, she and her siblings, Suzette and A.B. Quintanilla, began to perform at their parents’ restaurant as Selena y Los Dinos. Selena learned Spanish phonetically to sing Tejano music. The band released its first album in 1984, recording on small labels until signing with EMI Latin in 1989.

In 1992, Selena eloped with Chris Perez, a former guitarist in her band. They moved into an unassuming brick house next door to her parents and sister, two down from her brother, who wrote many of her songs. She booked a few acting roles, signed as a spokeswoman for soft drinks and shampoo, opened two boutiques that carried her rhinestone-studded designs. On March 31, 1995, in the midst of recording her “crossover” album, she was murdered by Yolanda Saldivar, a former nurse with a history of embezzlement. Tens of thousands of fans viewed her coffin during a 12-hour visitation at the Corpus Christi convention center.

“Her death and her tragedy helped Latinx communities in the 1990s really make sense of the tragedies that were affecting their own lives,” said Deborah Paredez, an ethnic studies scholar and the author of “Selenidad: Selena, Latinos, and the Performance of Memory.” “And the promise of her life also provided a way for many Latinx communities to articulate their dreams.”

Jaime Dávila, an executive producer on the series, spent his childhood in McAllen, Tex., listening to Selena’s songs at birthdays and weddings. “It’s been special my entire life, her story,” he said, in a phone interview. A few years ago, a colleague introduced him to Suzette Quintanilla, and they agreed to collaborate on Selena’s story.

Dávila’s production company, Campanario, then pitched the series to Francisco Ramos, Netflix’s vice president of content for Latin America. “They had a very, very good pitch,” he recalled, “which was, let’s do it as a family series, like if she were a normal person. But it turns out that she’s Selena.”

Of course, Selena has already received the onscreen biographical treatment, in a beloved 1997 movie that launched the career of Jennifer Lopez, which the family also authorized. But this version — 18 episodes of about 40 minutes each — provides more detail and answers some of the fan questions that have accumulated over the years. “Like, ‘How did this happen?’ or “How did this song get created?’” Quintanilla said. She shared stories and memorabilia with the writers, creating a series — with its occasional scenes of financial hardship and shopping with food stamps — that feels less “sugarcoated” than the film, she said.

Still, the scripts never center any particular struggle for long. Tensions resolve. Obstacles crumble. The episodes underscore hard work, familial loyalty, the glittery gift of Selena’s talent. The show takes a few liberties with fact and timeline, Dávila admitted. “But I would say the emotions of it are 100 percent authentic — that’s what we were going for.”

The characters of Selena and the Quintanillas skew broader than in many streaming and cable dramas, which might suggest that “Selena” underestimates the audience’s ability to tolerate nuance. Or maybe this family really was uncomplicated in its mutual devotion.

Could Selena possibly have been as sunshiny, as generous, as self-possessed as she appears in Serratos’s performance? Aside from changing her hairstyle perhaps too often, was she really without flaws?

Pretty much, her sister said. “Unless you woke her up. That was probably the grouchiest you were ever going to get from her.”

That the current pop cultural taste champions rebel girls doesn’t mean that television should ignore girls as apparently dutiful as Selena. But of course, she was more than just dutiful.

“There might be a star quality that people have or don’t have,” Serratos said in a Zoom interview. “And if that is true, then Selena had it. Not only was she beautiful, she was authentically herself.”

“I’m just so happy, as a Mexican-American woman, that I get to play a Mexican-American woman who opened the door for me,” she added.

The series, which was shot at Baja Studios in Rosarito, Mexico, splits the biographical difference between extraordinary and ordinary. If the show makes the most of Serratos’s charisma and glow, episodes emphasize the day-to-day grind of gigging musicians: rehearsing, traveling, performing for crowds small and large, humping gear back to the bus.

“We were just a normal family,” Quintanilla said. “The only difference really is that we all came together to create music.”

The emphasis on the everyday has another purpose. Selena’s early death and her public mourning reduced her to a particular iconography — an airbrushed face, an empty jacket. Scenes of home perms and family dinners and tour bus goofing off reconstitute her as a person, not a tragic symbol.

“Selena: The Series” negotiates her identity as simultaneously Mexican-American and all-American. In one scene, Selena’s father, Abraham Quintanilla, objects to the exoticized image chosen for an album cover. “What is so exotic about Corpus Christi?” Abraham (Ricardo Chavira), complains to an EMI executive. “She is an American girl who just happens to be able to sing in Spanish.”

Still, her Tejana roots partially explain Netflix’s eagerness to market the English-language series heavily in Mexico. “She is a huge superstar in Mexico, as well as in large parts of Latin America, and a source of pride even today,” Ramos said. But she remains adored in the United States, too, and her story provides an opportunity to build a show around a Hispanic family, a rarity for American television, streaming or network.

“People don’t understand the Latino community in the United States,” Dávila said. “They don’t get us. One of the reasons is because you don’t see us onscreen.” He started Campanario and produced “Selena” to help change that.

Suzette Quintanilla understands her family’s cultural identity this way: “Our ancestors are from Mexico, but we are born and raised third-generation here in the U.S. and we are American,” she said. “It’s OK to embrace both sides.”

Every side embraces Selena. Artists like J Balvin and Luis Fonsi cite her music, and so do Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves. A new generation of fans are discovering Selena — they see themselves reflected in her music, her style and her legacy, just as their mothers once did.

“It’s like an inheritance we pass down,” said Paredez, the ethnic studies scholar. “Whatever story Netflix is invested in telling, I will be much more curious to hear how fans themselves are going to interact with that series.”

One fan has already seen the first nine episodes. “I cried, I’m not going to lie,” Suzette Quintanilla said. “But I loved it.” She thinks that her sister, who used to joke about how she would still be wearing rhinestone bras at 50, would have loved it, too.

“I think she probably would have,” she said. “I mean, it’s the story of our lives.”





No.9 article:
A Covid-Free Cruise Takes Planning, but the Strip Show Goes On

ABOARD THE WORLD DREAM, IN THE STRAIT OF MALACCA — The drinks were virgin and the distancing was social when the Dream Boys strippers stormed the stage. Masks at poolside were mandatory. Hand sanitizer stations stood within easy reach of the slot machines.

And in a vision of the future of the global cruise industry, passengers aboard the World Dream cruise liner wore small pink contact-tracing pods that monitored their locations and recorded the names of everybody they met with.

“We aboard the World Dream are doing our utmost to keep your cruise with us healthy,” Robert Bodin, the ship’s captain, told his 1,400 passengers as they set sail, in a departure from his usual invitation to relax and enjoy the journey.

The World Dream departs from Singapore two or three times a week on a cruise to nowhere, a rare beacon of hope for an industry under mortal threat. In February, the world watched in horror as the coronavirus infected more than 200 people aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship, trapping its 3,600 passengers and crew. Governments banned cruises, crews were sent home, and passengers canceled their bookings, idling an industry that employed more than one million people.

Singapore, along with several countries in Europe as well as Japan, has extended the cruise business a lifeline. As many ships sit idle around the world, the city-state has encouraged voyages on a limited and highly controlled basis.

To find out how this was possible, I booked a three-day voyage on the World Dream. Friends and colleagues wondered why I would want to go on what some of them called “a floating petri dish.” Their fears weren’t baseless. U.S. health officials suggest people avoid cruise ships and have said operators must set out a framework for how cruising could restart. Most major cruise lines in the United States have announced that they will not resume operations until 2021. A week before I set sail, a Caribbean liner from Barbados was forced to turn back after five people tested positive for the coronavirus.

I contacted infectious-disease experts to ask about the risks.

“When I first saw your email, I thought: ‘Bad idea,’” said Dr. Edward Ryan, director of global infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital. Still, he and others told me that Singapore’s restrictions made cruises look safe.

“When I look at what they are doing,” Dr. Ryan said, “they are effectively creating a reasonable bubble.”

Demand is still there. Genting Cruise Lines, the World Dream’s operator, said it had received 6,000 bookings within five days. Bookings for Royal Caribbean, which is preparing to sail from Singapore this month, were six times higher than the company would normally get in October, the cruise line said.

The World Dream offers just about everything it did before the coronavirus struck, said Genting, including a zip line, two pools, a casino, 11 restaurants and cafes, and various shows. Only the karaoke room was closed, per Singaporean government guidelines.

Singapore requires passengers take a coronavirus test before boarding. Instead of Hong Kong, Okinawa or another sunny destination, the ship would dock nowhere but Singapore. Capacity has been slashed in half, to a limit of 1,700 guests.

Following Singapore’s guidelines, the cruise lines upgraded their air filters and enforced social distancing. They required passengers to carry the contact tracing devices, which link to Singaporean monitoring systems. They staged drills for what to do if a passenger showed symptoms: test, contact-trace, isolate any infected people, tell passengers to return to their cabins and sail home.

Royal Caribbean plans to buy Covid-19 insurance for each passenger that will cover costs of up to $19,000 if the guest is infected, said Angie Stephen, the line’s Asia-Pacific managing director.

The measures drove costs about 40 percent higher, said Michael Goh, Genting Cruise Lines’ head of international sales, at a news conference. But they make cruising “one of the safest holidays at this point in time,” he said.

Genting is playing up its health efforts. “Cruise with confidence,” says the World Dream’s website, which highlights the ventilation systems (“100 percent external fresh air”) and food hygiene practices. (“Self-service at buffet restaurants will be suspended.”)

Regina Setar, 38, a part-time security guard, said she studied the measures before accompanying her 70-year-old mother on board. Her mother has diabetes and recently had knee surgery but has been “cooped up at home, watching all the news about Covid.” They paid about $300 for a balcony room.

“I’m not taking any risks,” Ms. Setar said. “I wouldn’t want to. My father would kill me if anything happened.”

Probably the biggest reason I felt safe on the cruise was that, when I boarded the ship, Singapore had gone seven straight days without any coronavirus cases.

I had to take a rapid antigen test, administered by a medical worker gently flicking a short swab around my nostrils. It was not as invasive as the long swabs used for what are known as PCR tests, the standard way of detecting the coronavirus. Antigen tests are easy to administer to large groups of people, but experts warn that they may not catch everyone who is infected.

So Genting takes other steps. Following Singapore’s rules, it has dispatched 40 “cruise ambassadors” in dark blue polo shirts to ensure guests keep their distance from one another. You get accustomed to hearing them say, “Please stand one meter apart.”

Almost all passengers comply, “but there’s always that 1 percent,” said Zulkifli bin Ibrahim, a cruise ambassador. One passenger, Mr. Zulkifli said, shouted at him after he reminded the passenger to wear a mask after swimming.

Meals test the spacing limits. Guests stood on stickers three feet apart, making for long lines at the buffet areas. They called out their food choices to the chefs, who used gloves and tongs as they filled plates.

At one dinner, an elderly woman, her mask pulled down below her chin, was peering at the offerings at the buffet table. A cruise ambassador approached her with a frantic: “Auntie, auntie! Your mask!”

The casino was a major draw. Dozens of gray-haired passengers sat at the rows of slot machines, also three feet apart. There were several tables for mahjong. A group of elderly women, wearing masks, shuffled tiles.

I’m sure I wasn’t the only one worried about the risks. A cough would make me wonder whether the woman two tables down from me was a germ vector.

Still, the passengers seemed grateful for the chance to go somewhere else for the first time since the outbreak, even if “somewhere else” was a cruise ship sailing in the middle of the water.

“It’s been ages since I traveled!” said Doris Yeo, a sales assistant and a cruise aficionado, who was laughing with nine other people, mostly family, spread across two restaurant tables. Her relatives joined, she said, because “they really like gambling.”

“There’s everything under one roof,” she said. “It’s just perfect.”

The next day, I slipped into the theater for the “Verry Christmas” show, an acrobatic performance with a Christmas theme. A drag queen wearing a blond wig, a fur stole and a sequined dress sang “Santa Baby” to a group of Santa Clauses. The masked audience hooted and hollered.

The last night of the cruise, I attended the Dream Boys male burlesque show in a Chinese restaurant. It was billed as a “ladies night where your fantasies really will come to life.” The room appeared full, even as the audience sat at least three feet apart at a series of round tables. Because the show began after 10:30 p.m., no alcohol was served, per Singapore’s Covid-19 restrictions.

The dancers’ routines — a military display with presumably fake weaponry, and another performance with captain’s hats and not much else — were met with catcalls, barely muffled even by masks. At the curtain call, the audience was clapping and cheering, with one woman shouting, “Encore!”

Fun and relaxation take some planning on a Covid-19 cruise. Shows must be booked in advance. Swimmers must do the same — the main pool allows 26 swimmers at a time, and they can swim for only an hour.

With a bit of planning, Raymond Lim and his wife managed to swim, hit the Jacuzzi and take ballroom and line-dancing classes. (“Quite fun.”) He also took a class on how to paint on pebbles. (“A bit lame.”)

Mr. Lim, who works for the Singapore Tourism Board, called it a “good break” but “a muted cruise experience.” Compared with his past cruises, he said later, he couldn’t find a lounge to chill out, and there was “no spontaneous dance.”

“Over all,” Mr. Lim said, “you don’t really get to loosen up.”





No.10 article:
Greek Orthodox Church Faces Criticism as Virus Hits Its Ranks

Church leaders have backed government restrictions, but defiance by hard-liners and a commitment to the sacrament of communion, taken with a shared spoon, may undercut good intentions.

ATHENS — The coronavirus has dealt a double blow to the powerful Greek Orthodox Church, with the disease spreading through its ranks while the clergy fends off criticism that it has been stoking the pandemic.

The church’s leader, Archbishop Ieronymos, declared from the outset of the pandemic in the spring that he was committed to supporting the conservative government’s public health campaign to halt the spread of the virus. On Nov. 30, the 82-year-old archbishop himself left an Athens hospital after 12 days of treatment for the virus, urging Greeks to “restrict yourselves, discipline yourselves, follow the rules.”

But defiance by Orthodox hard-liners and the church’s unflinching commitment to the tradition of holy communion, where worshipers consume sacramental bread soaked in wine from a common spoon, appears to have undercut those good intentions. Several clergy members have even gone as far as insisting that faith in the communion sacrament can shield people from the virus.

As the Greek authorities struggle to contain a second wave of the virus, some of the fiercest criticism of the church is coming from within its own ranks. One bishop, Anthimos of Alexandroupolis, condemned those who, with “criminal sermons,” have urged Greeks to ignore public health restrictions.

“We believed we were supermen. We hid the fact that we’d been infected by the virus and were led to the grave,” he wrote in an article posted online last month. “Pious Egotism Kills!” he added.

Nasos Iliopoulos, the spokesman for the leftist opposition party Syriza, said, “The fact that these are the words of a bishop make it clear that the church’s response to the pandemic has been questionable.”

“Let’s not forget the existence of a conservative/religious public that often appears to deny not only the measures but the very existence of the pandemic,” Mr. Iliopoulos added, saying the state must make clear that observing the coronavirus restrictions is an obligation for all.

It is not clear to what extent places of worship have contributed to the spread of the virus in a country where eight in 10 people say religion is an important part of their lives.

Conservative government officials have chiefly blamed overcrowding in bars and restaurants and seem loath to point the finger at the church, even though the disease has clearly spread through the ranks of the clergy in recent weeks — particularly afflicting older members who are most vulnerable to the virus.

At least six of the church’s 82 bishops in Greece have caught the virus, including 62-year-old Bishop Ioannis of Lagadas in northern Greece, who died from it on Nov. 15. But the actual number of infected clerics is not known, as some have not made their illnesses public, calling it “a personal issue,” church officials said.

“Some clergy, hierarchs included, seem to act as though they believe themselves to be immune to the disease,” said George Demacopoulos, a co-director of the Orthodox Christian Studies Center at Fordham University. “We are seeing the tragic results of this sort of thinking.”

Although Greece initially fared relatively well in coping with the pandemic, the second wave has proved tougher to curb. As of Friday, the country had 113,185 confirmed cases and 2,804 deaths, with most of the deaths recorded over the past month.

Archbishop Ieronymos tested positive for Covid-19 on Nov. 16, two days after meeting Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis amid the country’s latest lockdown to discuss the opening of churches for Christmas. (Mr. Mitsotakis subsequently tested negative).

Other Orthodox churches in Europe have also been struck by the virus.

The Orthodox patriarch of Serbia, Irinej, 90, and the patriarch of Montenegro, Amfilohije, 82, both died from it in recent weeks. The Archbishop of Albania, Anastasios, a 91-year-old ethnic Greek, was flown in for treatment at the same Athens hospital that treated Archbishop Ieronymos last month.

Patriarch Irinej had officiated at Patriarch Amfilohije’s funeral in Montenegro’s capital, Podgorica, on Nov. 1, which drew thousands of mourners, many of them kissing the body of the deceased cleric. Several clerics contracted the virus after that gathering.

Similar “super-spreader” events appear to have fueled the transmission of the virus through the ranks of the Greek clergy, notably a dinner for the Holy Synod, the church’s governing body, in Athens and a ceremony for the patron saint of Thessaloniki in northern Greece.

Bishop Ioannis of Lagadas had been in a throng of clerics and worshipers at the saint day celebrations in late October, several weeks before his death. He was among those who claimed that the virus does not spread through holy communion.

A vigil for the eradication of the coronavirus at Mount Athos, a monastic community in northern Greece, also drew scores of people in a crowd last month. It followed an outbreak there in September, though monastery officials said all participants had been tested for Covid-19.

A Greek court recently cleared a bishop, Nektarios of Corfu, of violating Covid-19 health restrictions even though he urged worshipers to defy the spring lockdown and attend church.

The Holy Synod said that it was complying with health measures, including the enforcement of social distancing and the mandatory use of face masks in churches. But at the same time, it condemned a “neurotic” focus by critics on holy communion.

“If you don’t believe and see it as wine and bread, you are not protected,” said Giorgos Vasileiou, head of the synod’s press office. “I see it as the body of Christ, so I am.”

Several conservative lawmakers say they continue to participate in the sacrament of communion, and a government minister was recently photographed doing so.

Opinion polls, however, indicate that seven in 10 Greeks believe that communion spreads the virus, and a new survey found that seven in 10 described the church’s response to the pandemic as irresponsible.

Greece’s National Public Health Organization, Eody, breaks down infections by region, gender and age and conducts targeted inspections in harder-hit regions but does not systematically track the sources of outbreaks. As such, it does not release figures linking cases to church attendance, public transportation or bars among other sources.

Epidemiologists in Greece have differing opinions on the question of holy communion.

Eleni Yiamarellou, a government health adviser, has publicly declared that the practice poses no health risk to believers.

Another prominent epidemiologist, Athina Linou, has called on the Greek Orthodox Church to reconsider the tradition of using a single spoon, as has been done in Romania, Russia, Ukraine and the United States.

Although the messages are mixed, religious experts say the church cannot speak out against a crucial tenet of Orthodox religious practice.

“It could not show flexibility on the issue of holy communion,” said Apostolos Nikolaidis, professor of the sociology of religion at the University of Athens. “It would nullify itself, its nature, its very existence.”





No.11 article:
One of the First Virus Hot Spots in the U.S. Is Under Siege Again

New Rochelle, N.Y., was a model for how to contain and control the coronavirus’s spread. But the city’s success may be fleeting.

NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. — There are lines again at Glen Island Park, the drive-through coronavirus testing center that state officials set up when the coronavirus was discovered in this city in March.

Nurses at the local hospital went on a two-day strike this week over fears that their working conditions made them vulnerable to infection as hospitalization rates climb.

And at the synagogue where the first case here was detected around nine months ago, a sign on the door now turns people who live in coronavirus hot zones away. Prayers for them are virtual.

As the virus rages across Westchester County, it has returned to New Rochelle, a city hit so hard during the outbreak’s earliest days that it was for a time the epicenter of the pandemic in the region. In early March, when Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced the state’s first so-called containment zone in this New York City suburb, New Rochelle’s fate proclaimed an unnerving message: The virus is here.

Now it is back.

On Friday, officials added 11,271 new cases statewide as the daily positive test rate climbed above 5 percent. In New Rochelle, which added 73 new cases on Friday, the surge comes with a profound sense of defeat. This city of 80,000 about 20 miles north of Manhattan on Interstate 95 had at one point emerged as a model of how to beat the disease.

That the coronavirus could re-emerge here, in a city and county scarred by loss and intimately familiar with the disease, is not only a testament to the virus’s intractability. Local leaders and health experts fear it is also a bellwether for the rest of the country: If the disease can roar back into Westchester, the home of New Rochelle, a city that met the virus first and knows it with cruel intimacy, it can happen anywhere.

Some residents have returned to the extreme measures that helped them survive the first wave, cloistering themselves in their homes. Others said they had watched with dismay as their neighbors let down their guard.

“It’s crazy that it’s back at the scene of the crime,” said Josh Berkowitz, the owner of Eden Wok, a kosher Chinese restaurant on North Avenue, just down the road from the Young Israel of New Rochelle synagogue. A congregant there had the city’s first detected case of the virus.

“It just shows we are so powerless,” Mr. Berkowitz said.

The seven-day average test positivity rate in Westchester has climbed to about 5 percent, far higher in some areas: In Peekskill and Ossining, the rate  among those who have been tested is about 10 percent. In November, the state designated Port Chester, on the Connecticut border, as an “orange zone,” shutting down in-person schooling and closing certain businesses.

“The first time through we didn’t really realize how severe it would get, so we were learning as we went along,” George Latimer, the Westchester County executive, said. “There was a sense that we took the best shot that Covid could give us, but we survived it, and things got better — but the virus isn’t done with us.”

Parts of New Rochelle, as well as parts of Yonkers, Sleepy Hollow and Tarrytown, have been labeled yellow zones, requiring measures like weekly coronavirus testing for 20 percent of the student population, among other steps. As of Friday, there were 5,968 active cases countywide — more than double the number two weeks ago — and over 290 people were hospitalized; numbers on par with what they were in May.

Controlling the spread, which is dispersed across the region, is particularly problematic in Westchester. During the virus’s recent resurgence, about 70 percent of infections have been tied to private gatherings, according to the state’s contact-tracing efforts. 

“When the virus is contained to one geographic area, or one source of spread that is easily controllable, it is easier to ‘close the valve,’ either geographically or by industry,” said Gareth Rhodes, the state’s deputy superintendent of financial services and a member of Mr. Cuomo’s coronavirus task force. 

Now, with six cluster zones scattered across the county, he said, the virus “is geographically more dispersed than just one area, and the ability to conduct enforcement of gatherings in private homes is much more limited.”

There are other striking differences from the pandemic’s earliest days here: Where the initial outbreak was first detected among a middle-class community connected to a local synagogue, the disease is now afflicting the predominantly blue-collar workers in the denser pockets of Westchester’s towns. And as hospitals fill up again, doctors in the area have learned new treatment strategies, like delaying the use of ventilators.

“The situation we are facing right now is undoubtedly grave and challenging, but it doesn’t have the same intense anxiety that I think we felt in the spring when all of this was painfully unfamiliar,” said Noam Bramson, New Rochelle’s mayor. “This is now a more familiar enemy.”

On Tuesday, nurses at Montefiore New Rochelle Hospital staged a walkout over contract negotiations that began before the pandemic hit, but they also cited risks they had been subjected to by the outbreak.

“This place was the epicenter, the beginning of Covid,” Judy Sheridan-Gonzalez, the president of the union representing the nurses, the New York State Nurses Association told ABC News. “We have nurses who’ve died. We have people who’ve died, who’ve worked here for lack of PPE, for improper care, improper staffing and training. That’s what this strike is about.”

On Thursday, officials in Port Chester held an emergency meeting on how to fight the virus. Spanish and English language ads with clergy members and other local leaders highlighting the severity of the rise will be broadcast on local stations. Mobile testing units are being deployed. Giant electronic billboards flashing reminders to wear masks and social distance will be set up.

On Friday in Tar­ry­town, the annual party for the lighting of the village’s Christmas trees was moved online in an effort to comply with the yellow-zone restriction limiting outdoor gatherings to no more than 25 people. Similar holiday plans are in place in Sleepy Hollow, but also in areas that have not achieved that status but where numbers are creeping up, like Dobbs Ferry and Irvington.

Some county residents are taking matters into their own hands — as best as they can.

In New Rochelle, Dr. Michael Wechsler, 80, said that in recent weeks he had returned to the hermetic way he was forced to live at the height of the outbreak, and had once again stopped going to the grocery store.

Dr. Wechsler, a urologist, blamed the rise in cases on a relaxed attitude toward the virus, even here, where National Guard troops rolled in to scrub public buildings in March, and fleets of health workers in head-to-toe protective equipment fanned out across neighborhoods.

“People tend to repress something bad,” he said. “It’s a coping mechanism.”

In Port Chester, Ana Ponce, 79, put a surgical mask under the carrot nose of the inflatable snowman in her front yard as a message to her neighborhood: Mask up.

“It makes me sad and it makes me worry,” Ms. Ponce said on Thursday, referring to Port Chester’s 241 active cases. By Friday, the total number of active cases in the village rose to 270.

Ms. Ponce said she was also frustrated by what she considered the lax approach many local residents were taking to wearing masks and following social-distancing guidelines.

“A lot of people,” she said, “don’t have the sensibility to understand that they are hurting themselves and are hurting other people.”





No.12 article:
Outdoor Dining Is a Hit. What About Outdoor Shopping?

New York City’s Open Storefronts initiative lets retailers use sidewalk space in a manner similar to restaurants. So far, the program is a flop.

Hoping to survive the economic toll of the pandemic, nearly 11,000 restaurants are now part of New York City’s outdoor dining program — a program so wildly popular that Mayor Bill de Blasio made it permanent.

With that kind of success, the mayor turned his attention to another popular activity: shopping. In late October, he announced the Open Storefronts program, which allows retailers to use their sidewalk space to conduct business outdoors, in a manner similar to restaurants.

But so far, the program is a dud: As of Tuesday morning, only 563 businesses had applied. Mr. de Blasio has said 40,000 businesses are eligible to participate.

There was a lot going against it. Business owners said the program was complicated, costly and too little, too late. It was scheduled to end on Dec. 31; only 10 businesses on Staten Island had applied, and most applicants were located in Brooklyn and Manhattan. Some business owners said they were turned off by the rules, including space restrictions and a prohibition on heaters, a primary draw for outdoor dining as the weather grows colder. Others said they could not afford to pay employees to stand outside in the cold to watch over merchandise.

Several store owners said that unlike outdoor dining, the customer demand was not there.

“People have to eat, they have to socialize, but they don’t necessarily have to buy clothes,” said Liz Murphy, the owner of Slope Vintage in Park Slope, Brooklyn.

In a City Council hearing on Tuesday, Jonnel Doris, the commissioner for the city’s Department of Small Business Services, largely blamed an information gap and concerns about the transmission of the virus for the low participation rate.

Mr. Doris said small businesses received a majority of their sales during the holiday shopping season, so his team was working to increase the number of participants.

A spokesman for the mayor, Mitch Schwartz, said in a statement that the city was “proud” to see that some businesses were taking advantage of the program. “Two things have been clear throughout this pandemic: Small businesses need support, and New York City’s recovery depends on creative uses of the outdoor urban landscape,” he said. “Open Storefronts merges both.”

But using the landscape does not mean businesses will recover, some store owners said.

Ms. Murphy said she put two racks of clothing in front of her store this summer before the mayor unveiled the Open Storefronts program. Her sidewalk setup increased foot traffic but did not increase her sales. She said she did not see the value.

Outdoor retail “isn’t going to save the company,” said Ms. Murphy, who did not apply to the program. “It’s not going to make my sales go up 20 percent. All it’s going to do is say to someone, ‘Hey, we’re open,’ but I could’ve just gotten a neon sign for the same amount of money that would’ve attracted the same number of people.”

While the program is wide-ranging — including clothing and food stores and repair shops, but also personal care services and even laundromats and dry cleaners — many retailers failed to see how it made sense for their business.

“The customer experience of visiting stores on Fifth Avenue is exceptional and based on what we know about our shoppers’ habits,” Jerome Barth, the president of the Fifth Avenue Association, said in an email. “They prefer the personal touch of walking into a store and enjoying that special degree of care.”

Still, some business owners were hopeful, willing to try anything to stay afloat. With the holiday shopping season underway, retailers are increasingly anxious about recouping losses incurred during the pandemic. According to a report by the Partnership for New York City, a nonprofit business group, approximately one-third of the city’s 240,000 small businesses may not survive the pandemic.

Some store owners began moving their wares to the sidewalk earlier this year as lockdown limitations lifted but people remained concerned about enclosed spaces. They made these changes before the city consented, leaving themselves open to receiving tickets or fines.

“The Open Storefronts initiative was more of a validation of something businesses had initiated themselves out of desperation,” said Kenneth Mbonu, the executive director of the Flatbush Nostrand Junction Business Improvement District in South Brooklyn.

Sidewalk vending, legal or not, has long been a familiar sight throughout the city, and is considered a quick and often cheap way to make sales: jewelry in SoHo, incense in Harlem, flowers in Midtown. But extending a brick-and-mortar business onto the sidewalk is rarer.

Khadija Tudor, the owner of Life Wellness Center, a massage and acupuncture studio and apothecary in Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, has been selling merchandise outside without having heard of Open Storefronts.

In 2006, when she and her husband opened the business, they would drag a massage chair to the sidewalk and offer it to passers-by, or have a table with plants and incense for sale. During the pandemic, they left the massage chair inside, but the area outside the storefront on Tompkins Avenue is bustling.

Ms. Tudor said sidewalk merchandise, like lush bunches of eucalyptus and sizable house plants, had always helped business. “But it’s not just outdoor sales. A big thing for us is being connected to the community,” she said. “We really consider community to be the backbone of why we’re even surviving and thriving.”

The stretch of Tompkins Avenue between Jefferson and Putnam Avenues was particularly lively on a recent November afternoon, full of outdoor diners and shoppers. Two more retail businesses also had wares on the sidewalk; one had clothing snaked up the scaffolding outside of the shop.

In Park Slope, also in Brooklyn, Annie’s Blue Ribbon General Store happens to be on a block that is one of the city’s “open streets,” which are closed to traffic at certain times. Bars and restaurants had been taking advantage of the additional space all summer, so when Ann Cantrell, the store’s owner, heard about the retail program, she jumped at the chance to apply.

“I just want to remain relevant and top of mind for our customers,” Ms. Cantrell said. Being outside “increases awareness and opportunity to be closer to the customer.”

Doing business outdoors helped salvage the Craft Studio, a Manhattan arts studio with locations in Tribeca and on the Upper East Side — not because of sales, but because Lindsey Peers, the owner, moved art classes and activities to the sidewalk. That meant caregivers and children could still participate in the classes the studios offered.

Ashley Butterman, a regular at the Upper East Side location, stopped taking her two young children when the pandemic took hold. Once the sidewalk classes began, she eagerly returned, happy to have found a way for her children to have play dates without having to enter a building.

“It provided a great way for us to benefit from all the things they do here and to support a local business, but also stay safe and comfortable,” she said.

While the sidewalk classes were successful in the summer, Ms. Peers said she thought she would get only one or two days of actual sidewalk sales in before the end of the year, even though she went through the formal application process. “I know I’m not alone when I say it’s a staffing issue,” she said. “To have a person stationed outside all day, and to make up for that revenue — it’s a gamble.”

Many store owners are avoiding the program entirely. Representatives from business improvement districts in Manhattan’s Chinatown, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Williamsburg and SoHo, and on the Upper East Side and Madison Avenue, all said that it was too soon to read the success of the program because of the low rates of participation.

DianSong Yu, the executive director of the Downtown Flushing Transit Hub Business Improvement District, said the program was not successful in his Queens neighborhood.

“One, local retailers are facing major competition from online retailers like Amazon, Walmart, and Target,” he wrote in an email. “Two, to operate outdoor retail, shops will have to hire more employees for the coverage. A risk most shop owners are not willing to take on. Three, Main Street is occupied by illegal vendors throughout the day. Tough competition for retailers.”

But others thought that more businesses would enroll in the program during the holiday season.

“I think it will slowly gain traction,” said Wellington Chen, the executive director of the Chinatown Partnership Local Development Corporation, a neighborhood group. He expressed excitement for the potential of community gathering, likening the outdoor shopping to neighborhood front porches.

“In the old days, you never knew if someone was inside,” Mr. Chen said. “But now you see them, you engage with each other, you smell the fresh air. People are saying that even after the pandemic the program should continue, and rightfully so.”





No.13 article:
A Professional Relationship Shifts With a Personal Question

Timothy Mayopoulos and Heather Russell met in 2006 when both worked at Bank of America. It wasn’t until 2015, when he asked how her family was, that their fortunes changed.

Timothy Mayopoulos described Heather Russell as “a human Champagne cork in five-inch heels” during their exchange of vows Nov. 21 at the bride’s home in Bronxville, N.Y.

“She’s effervescent,” said Mr. Mayopoulos, 61, the president of Blend, a financial services technology company in San Francisco.

“She’s also beautiful and she’s brilliant and she’s talented,” he said, going on about Ms. Russell, 49, the chief legal officer and corporate secretary of TransUnion, a global information and insights company based in Chicago.

The two met in Charlotte in 2006 when Ms. Russell joined the 1,000-member legal department at Bank of America, which was managed by Mr. Mayopoulos. He said he briefly interviewed her, and saw her only a handful of times until the day he left the company in 2008.

Three years later, Ms. Russell left the company, but kept in touch with Mr. Mayopoulos on occasions via social media. Whenever work took them to the same town, which she said was about once a year, they would meet for drinks.

On one of those occasions, in the fall of 2015, Mr. Mayopoulos, who was then the chief executive of Fannie Mae in Washington, asked Ms. Russell the kind of question he had never asked her before: “How’s your family?”

“We had never really been friends,” Ms. Russell said. “We had just kind of kept up this professional network thing, and then one day, that day, for the very first time, Tim asked me about my family.”

When she told him that she was getting divorced, he revealed that he was also divorcing. Each had two children, a boy and a girl, and suddenly enough in common on which to base a long-distance friendship that turned a romantic corner in July 2016.

That month, Ms. Russell was living in New York and commuting to her job as chief legal officer at the Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bank when she went to the bank’s compliance office to state for the record that she was in a relationship with Mr. Mayopoulos.

As a result, Ms. Russell was terminated and her story was in newspapers around the country, including The Wall Street Journal and The Charlotte Observer.

“I was utterly shocked and confused,” Ms. Russell said. “I was in a relationship with someone else at another company. There was nothing inappropriate in any regard, and absolutely no reason for the termination.” She did not fight the termination and, though she no longer had that job, she did have Mr. Mayopoulos. (He had also reported his relationship with Ms. Russell to Fannie Mae’s compliance department. He was not fired from his job, and departed the company two years later for Blend.)

The couple got engaged over dinner in November 2019 at a restaurant in Lower Manhattan.

“We have so many things in common, including a taste in obscure music,” Mr. Mayopoulos said.

One of their favorite songs is by the indie band, the Damnwells called, “I Will Keep the Bad Things from You.”

“It’s a song about lovers keeping their hearts safe from the world,” Mr. Mayopoulos said.





No.14 article:
Festive Holiday Gifts for Newlyweds

Event planners and culinary professionals share some suggestions to help couples celebrate the season in style.

The coronavirus pandemic has given new meaning to being home for the holidays this year. Most newlyweds will have to celebrate their first Christmas, Kwanzaa, Hanukkah or New Year’s Eve in more intimate settings because of social-distancing requirements, but they can still do it in style.

Chefs and event planners weigh in on some of their favorite, meaningful gifts for couples, including vintage wine, coffee table books and essentials for creating flavorful dishes in their kitchen.

The owner and founder of Luxe Fête event planning and design studio, based in Miami.

A New Orleans-based chef, restaurateur and author of “Where I Come From: Life Lessons From a Latino Chef.”

An event and interior designer and the founder and creative director of Houses &amp; Parties, based in Savannah, Ga. and New York.

The owner and founder of Olivier Cheng Catering and Events and an owner and a founder of Destination Home, based in New York.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.15 article:
Who Was the Star? In This Dance Film, It Was the Camera

Bettie de Jong, the Paul Taylor muse, danced in Hilary Harris’s experimental film. (“Boring.” “Hard.” “Hated It.”) Now, a new generation pays homage.

Draped over a bare wooden floor with one leg bent behind and the other extended to the side, the dancer Bettie de Jong slowly rotates, opening an arm and then a knee as if her limbs — long and luxurious — were pages in a book. She spirals up, balanced on one foot while the other leg unfurls high to the side. Her arms lift radiantly but without force. Finally, she descends back to where she started and performs the sequence again. And again.

In the mesmerizing film “9 Variations on a Dance Theme” (1966), the filmmaker Hilary Harris trains his lens on Ms. de Jong, a longtime muse of the choreographer Paul Taylor. Ms. de Jong repeats the variation, but as the film progresses it becomes less a straightforward dance than an intimate, cinematic exploration of the moving body. Shot in hazy black and white, “9 Variations” is a classic; it’s also newly relevant, as dance artists experiment with ways to present their art form on screens.

That’s not the only reason it feels so current: In her isolated state, Ms. de Jong, with her enigmatic, angelic face, cuts a lonely figure. It seems as though she’s dancing in a room by herself — who can’t relate? — yet her partner is Mr. Harris’s camera. It dances with her, gliding over her knitted unitard, closing in on her quivering muscles and following the motion of her graceful fingers while dissecting her body from above and below. But even as the camera has its way, distorting and blurring Ms. de Jong’s statuesque form to render her anonymous, nothing can diminish her ghostly aura.

Recently two Taylor dancers — Michael Trusnovec, who retired from the company but is now the director of worldwide licensing for the Paul Taylor Dance Foundation, as well as a répétiteur of Taylor’s dances — and Kristin Draucker, a current company member, decided to pay homage to Ms. de Jong by creating a new film.

“I remember watching it one morning and just crying on the floor of my living room,” Ms. Draucker said of seeing the original during the early days of the shutdown. “It made me feel connected to dance again. I didn’t feel sad that I wasn’t onstage. I was just really moved by her dancing.”

For “Nine New Variations,” Mr. Trusnovec and Ms. Draucker’s second video collaboration, they asked nine dancers, all women — Sara Mearns, Margie Gillis, Tamisha A. Guy, Annmaria Mazzini, Xin Ying, Andrea Miller, Akua Noni Parker, Christine Flores and Caitlin Scranton — to watch Mr. Harris’s film and to respond both physically and with adventurous camera work. Those movement meditations were then edited by Ms. Draucker and Mr. Trusnovec, resulting in what they consider the 10th variation. (It is set to a score by DM R, the professional name of Diana M. Rodriguez.)

While these dancers largely filmed themselves quickly on smartphones, Ms. de Jong, who is now 87 and a rehearsal director with the Taylor company, said the making of the original unfolded over years. “He started it in ’63,” she said. “It took forever. I hated every moment of it.”

The characteristically blunt Ms. de Jong, speaking in a Zoom conversation that also included Mr. Trusnovec, performed the 45-second variation repeatedly; she danced to silence — music was added later — in sessions that lasted from 10 a.m. until noon. After, she would rehearse with Taylor.

“It practically killed me,” she said. “I tried to get rid of it so badly because for me it was not dancing. No. I had no music, nothing to look at.”

Why did she do it? “It was just money, I guess. And food. My tuna fish and my hamburgers.” She paused. “But it didn’t pay very well.”

Ms. de Jong did appreciate something about it. “He wanted to make a film that the camera made rather than the dancer,” she said. “So he wanted minimal movement. I never prepared myself. I guess I had so much preparation in my wanting to dance that it was just like eating breakfast. Once I lay down on the floor with my arm across, it was very easy to get in the mood.”

Ms. de Jong said that Mr. Harris tried out another dancer, but the combination she created didn’t suit his purpose. For hers, Ms. de Jong got advice from a fellow company member, Dan Wagoner, who recommended that she use the start of her solo in Taylor’s “Scudorama” (1963).

“The beginning is from ‘Scudorama’ but then it goes into something that he liked,” Ms. de Jong said of Mr. Harris. “The leg lift and then going back down to the floor of ‘Scudorama.’ And then I had knitted a warm-up thing, and he said, ‘Can you knit something like that in beige?’”

Concerned about her sewing skills, Ms. de Jong turned to a professional. “I’m not going to go to knit anything that goes on the camera!” she said. “I found this little Hungarian lady who said, ‘Oh, sure, I can knit that,’ and she did.”

Mr. Harris, who died in 1999, didn’t tell Ms. de Jong that his experiment had more to do with the camera than her dancing until he was done filming. Even now, she has a hard time watching it; for one thing, he made her lift a leg she didn’t want to lift. “My right leg,” she said, “goes up higher.”

To get herself through it, she started to relate it to the repetition of a daily barre warm-up. “It’s boring!” she said. “Tendus are boring! So I took it as that: It was an exercise that I had to do. But it was excruciating. And maybe that’s why I can’t watch it. It wasn’t pleasurable. To dance that way without music is so boring and so hard.”

But she still appreciates the affect of his angles, the way his camera is guiding the action. “That I love to watch because it’s very clear that the camera is doing it,” she said. “That is the art of the camera. I could feel him following me.”

For the meditative “Nine New Variations,” Mr. Trusnovec felt that the dancers responded to the camera, but more than that, they were reacting to Ms. de Jong and “to what she was doing,” he said. “They caught that purity, the elegance that she brings to every single time she does it. It’s just so stunning. There’s such simplicity, but it’s so rich.”

Ms. de Jong, who danced for Taylor from 1962 to 1985, said the choreographer’s response to the film wasn’t exactly positive. “Oh, Paul hated it in the beginning,” she said. “And then just recently when I got the Dance Magazine Award, he said, ‘Why don’t you show your movie, Hilary’s movie?’ That was the first time he ever mentioned that movie. He must have liked it anyway.”

Why did she think he hadn’t? “We all have very physical ways of letting you know,” she said. “He was a man of very few words and I knew that he hated it. Probably more jealousy than anything else. That he hadn’t made it.”

She met Taylor at the Martha Graham studios where Ms. de Jong, who was born in Indonesia and later moved to the Netherlands with her family, was a scholarship student. She heard that Taylor was holding an audition; even though it was invitation-only, he allowed her to attend.

After it, she asked Mr. Wagoner if he knew what Taylor had thought of her dancing. “He said, ‘He never thought of taking a tall dancer,’ and I said, ‘Oh, OK. That’s fine, that’s fine.’

But the next day, after taking a morning Graham class, she returned home. She said: “At 1 o’clock the telephone rang and this voice said: ‘Where are you? We’re rehearsing!’ That was it.”

Mr. Trusnovec laughed. “That’s Paul,” he said. “I’ll bet that you got there as quick as you could.”

Ms. de Jong nodded. “I, even without money, took a cab,” she said. “I’m old now, but I feel like I had a very rich life being allowed to dance Paul’s work. I loved all of his dances. I never sliced myself in little pieces. I just was in heaven dancing for that man.”





No.16 article:
Can Your Apartment Building Ban Overnight Guests?

A patchwork of laws governs how buildings can restrict visitors. But one thing is clear: Those laws matter more than a building’s stated rules.

Q: During the pandemic, a number of people in my Manhattan co-op have left the city for second homes. Concerned that shareholders were letting visitors stay in the empty apartments, the board enacted a new rule: Shareholders must now request authorization for any overnight guest. I understand the concern, but this rule seems to overstep the board’s authority. Do I need to ask permission if I want an overnight guest to stay with me? As a single woman, I am not comfortable with this invasion of my privacy.

A: Your co-op cannot prevent you from having guests spend the night at your apartment. The Real Property Law, a state rule, allows you to have an additional occupant so long as you occupy the apartment as your primary residence. Overnight guests would be considered occupants under the law. “You can have a roommate and you can have guests,” said Steven R. Wagner, a Manhattan real estate lawyer.

Co-ops do have a history of restricting visitors when the owners are out of town, but the specifics of the situation matter: The board could certainly step in if someone is renting out their apartment on Airbnb, because the Multiple Dwelling Law prohibits rentals of less than 30 days unless the occupant of the apartment is present. But if one of your neighbors leaves the city for a few weeks and lets a friend or family member stay, they could probably point to the Real Property Law in their defense, so long as the apartment is the owner’s primary residence. (Although during the pandemic, one co-op did stop a shareholder from letting his brother stay in his vacant apartment while he volunteered at a Manhattan hospital.)

“There is a patchwork of rules covering this stuff, and these rules all overlap,” Mr. Wagner said. “The law is a mess in this area.”

The problem with a blanket rule is that it ends up covering situations, like yours, that really have nothing to do with the problem the board is trying to address. You don’t need to get permission from your board every time a guest stays in your home. You could simply ignore the rule and make that argument if someone challenges you. Or, you could address it preemptively. Write the board a letter, explaining that the new rule violates state law. Since laws supersede building rules, tell the board that you will not seek authorization for your guests. In all likelihood, the board will back down.





No.17 article:
Interabled YouTubers, ‘Cole and Charisma,’ Celebrate Wedding

Charisma Jamison and Cole Sydnor, who have grown accustomed to sharing the joys and trials of their relationship with thousands of viewers on their show, “Roll With Cole &amp; Charisma,” marry in Virginia.

As a couple who share a formidable internet following, it may be somewhat shocking to learn that Charisma Jamison and Cole Sydnor met the old-fashioned way.

In November 2017, Ms. Jamison, at the time an inpatient rehab technician at Sheltering Arms Physical Rehabilitation Centers in Richmond, Va., noticed Mr. Sydnor working out on the outpatient side of the facility. Mr. Sydnor is a C5/C6 quadriplegic — he’s completely lost function of his hands, trunk and legs, with limited function in his arms, wrists and shoulders. He was injured in 2011, when he struck a rock with his head after diving into the James River in Virginia.

When Ms. Jamison saw Mr. Sydnor across the room, she didn’t see someone with limitations — she saw a friendly smile and a pair of bright, blue eyes.

“It was very easy to look past physical limitations being in my career,” Ms. Jamison, 26, said. “And the fact that Cole was super attractive didn’t hurt.”

Despite not working on the outpatient side of Sheltering Arms, Ms. Jamison found herself offering a helping hand to Mr. Sydnor as he finished working out on an electrical stimulation bike, which helps shock his muscles into operating the bike.

“I had electrical pads on my legs, buttocks, and I was exhausted and sweaty,” Mr. Sydnor, 25, recalled. “It was not the first impression I was looking for.”

They had a friendly, flirty conversation and would meet again a few days later at the Sheltering Arms annual fund-raising gala. Mr. Sydnor’s mother, Kelly Sydnor, met Ms. Jamison at the gala and invited her to sit at their family’s table. She declined, but a good first impression had been made.

“I just thought she was radiant and lovely,” Kelly Sydnor said of their encounter. “When Cole told me about Charisma, I was really glad to hear they were going on a date. I could tell she was so authentic.”

Ms. Jamison and Mr. Sydnor exchanged pleasantries once again at the gala, and later that night, she followed him on Instagram. Mr. Sydnor returned the favor, and then he “slid into my DMs,” messaging each other on the app, Ms. Jamison said.

They became a couple several weeks later, on Dec. 1, 2017.

The questions started to arrive immediately from friends, family, and the occasional judgment from passers-by. What was it like dating a quadriplegic? What is it like being an interabled couple? What is an interabled couple?

“I knew it would be tough for them,” Mrs. Sydnor said. “I told Charisma early on, ‘You know you’re choosing a difficult road, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t travel it.’” Ms. Jamison is very close with her parents, Katrina and Derrick Jamison. When she came to them about Mr. Sydnor, they were cautious at first, but very supportive.

“Charisma has always talked to us and values our opinion,” her mother said. “She came home one day and asked how Derrick  and I felt about an abled person dating someone that has a disability.  It depends on the person in that relationship, because that’s going to be a lot of responsibility.”

Mr. Jamison said he “told her that I wouldn’t hold a disability against someone, but wasn’t sure if I would date them.”

“Then I met him,” he said. “If our kids have an interest in someone, it’s because they picked a good person. I like Cole a lot. He and I have our own relationship, we’re able to talk about anything. His parents are very down to earth. It’s been a real blessing to see how all of it just flows together.”

Ms. Jamison and Mr. Sydnor decided to record a couple of videos and post them on YouTube answering some common questions they were constantly getting about interabled couples.

Mr. Sydnor had already been familiar with the power of YouTube — when he broke his neck as a 16-year-old high school student in 2011, his mother went through a similar process of getting the same questions from hundreds of friends and family. So she started creating videos of Mr. Sydnor’s recovery process and sharing them online.

“I knew a lot of people in town and it’s pretty uncommon for someone to break their neck, so news spreads pretty quickly,” Mr. Sydnor said.

Once Ms. Jamison and Mr. Sydnor started dating and began getting questions, it was Ms. Jamison who suggested making some videos.

“So we started filming what we do, our challenges, our daily lives,” Mr. Sydnor said. “Showing what we deal with on a daily basis when traveling.”

The couple enjoyed the process of creating videos, and realized it was cementing a bond that took hold early in their relationship. They recall the night when both realized they loved each other — it was New Year’s Day 2018, the first time Ms. Jamison had spent the night at Mr. Sydnor’s home.

“It was after our third date and we got to know each other a bit more,” she said. “It felt like we had known each other for a lifetime.”

On their first date over dinner, they had a very frank conversation about expectations.

“At that point in our lives, we both weren’t interested in dating around,” Mr. Sydnor said. “We were searching for who we wanted to end up with. We agreed that if we didn’t feel that way with each other, we’d cut it off.”

“The fact that every date we had was fantastic, every moment was electric, made it so easy,” Ms. Jamison said. “We both realized this was going to be it.”

As they slept that first night together, Ms. Jamison unknowingly knocked out the catheter Mr. Sydnor wears while he sleeps. It was a situation Mr. Sydnor’s family would typically help rectify. Ms. Jamison refused to call for help. “She handled it with such grace and ease,” Mr. Sydnor said. “For me it was always the type of situation where I felt it would be make or break. The fact that it didn’t even faze her, it made me feel like I had found the one.”

“It was significant — a moment that could have been embarrassing, but it made me realize that I loved this man,” Ms. Jamison said. “We were only a month in and I wanted to do this for him.”

As their love grew, so did Cole and Charisma’s YouTube following. (Their channel currently has 530,000 subscribers.)

Several inflection points spurred the growth of their channel, the first being a video posted on July 22, 2018, showing Mr. Sydnor hugging Ms. Jamison while standing up for the first time since his accident with the help of an exoskeleton. The video had more than 3.2 million page views. 

At the time, Ms. Jamison was attending graduate school for occupational therapy. She is from the Bronx and moved to Henrico, Va., when she was 3. She graduated in 2016 with a bachelor’s in exercise science from Virginia Commonwealth University. Mr. Sydnor, whose family is from Mechanicsville, Va., graduated from the University of Richmond in 2017.

After that video went “semi-viral,” the couple began to seriously consider their professional futures. They had become qualified for YouTube’s partner program, meaning since they had hit a certain threshold of views/subscribers, they could begin generating advertising revenue from their content.

“We had started to receive a lot of positive comments,” Mr. Sydnor said. “It’s been exciting to share a new manifestation of love with the world. As an interabled and interracial couple, we’re proof that love can be found anywhere.”

Ms. Jamison made the decision to leave graduate school so the couple could put all their efforts into producing content for the YouTube channel, which is named “Roll With Cole &amp; Charisma.” They cover topics from their daily lives, educational content that may help others navigate the inaccessible and accessible aspects of the world, and answer questions from viewers, friends, and family. They also have a freelance production company, where they produce content for local businesses.

They began getting into advocacy for the disabled community. The couple did a TEDx Talk about their story. Mr. Sydnor gave a speech at Google with the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation regarding the importance of universal design in product creation.

“They have infectious personalities,” said Breanna Spain, one of Ms. Jamison’s best friends and her maid of honor. “People fell in love with how authentic they were. They’re all about positivity. They’ve given a lot of hope to the disabled community.”

Ms. Jamison never thought the channel would become so popular. “Some days I wish no one knew about me,” she said. “We’ve had to sacrifice a lot of privacy sharing our lives with others, but in turn it makes us both happy because we’re able to impact viewers in such a positive way, just by sharing our lives.” 

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

“I just want to share with people that love comes in all shapes, forms, and sizes, and no matter the shape it takes, it’s beautiful,” Mr. Sydnor added.

Mr. Sydnor proposed on July 25, 2019 at the Wine Loft in Richmond, after singing Ms. Jamison, “Your Smile,” an original song he had commissioned by Kari Smith, a local musician. The video of the proposal is, of course, on their YouTube channel.

The coronavirus derailed their original wedding plans. They were to be married before more than 230 guests Dec. 19 at a hotel in downtown Richmond.

The couple moved up their wedding date to Nov. 7. Mr. Sydnor and Ms. Jamison, who is taking her husband’s name, were married in front of a small group of close friends and family on the outdoor patio of the historic Virginia House in Richmond. A number of precautions were taken: sanitation stations were set up, guests wore masks during the ceremony and reception, seats and tables were spaced apart, and guests had their temperatures taken before they entered. About 150 guests watched the wedding ceremony via livestream.

“I was disappointed when we had to reduce the size of our wedding, but our wedding planner blew it out of the water,” Mr. Sydnor said. “It couldn’t have been more perfect.”

Ms. Jamison wore a custom-made Ava Laurenne Bride dress called “The Charisma Dress.” Mr. Sydnor wore a tailored suit customized to fit him while sitting in his wheelchair. A family friend built a custom ramp for Mr. Sydnor to easily approach the makeshift altar, which was built for them on the Virginia House patio.

The couple’s vows reflected the intimacy of the setting.

“For the longest time I didn’t think you were out there,” Mr. Sydnor said. “Someone so selfless and caring, so beautiful inside and out. From our first date, I could see that in you and every day since, I’ve felt my love for you grow deeper. I promise to never let that love stop growing.”

“You have one of the sweetest souls and a smile that makes any day the best day,” Ms. Jamison said. “You have shown me the true meaning of patience, commitment, and love, and I fall more in love with you every day. You are my best friend, my partner in crime, the love of my life. Through whatever life throws our direction, like the year 2020, I will always be at your side. I love you.”

When Nov. 7, 2020

Where The Virginia House, Richmond, Va.

A Bittersweet Affair Mr. Sydnor had been looking forward to his grandfather, the Rev. Clement Adkisson Sydnor III, marrying him one day. It would not come to pass. His grandfather’s health began to fail and he died several weeks before the wedding. The groom’s brother, Clement Adkission Sydnor V, who is known as Quint, was his best man.

Sweet and Spicy As temperatures dipped to the low 60s throughout the night of their wedding, the couple wanted to offer a special drink to keep guests warm. It was named in honor of the bride’s family — the “hot Jamison cider.” It contained Jameson Irish whiskey, cinnamon, an apricot gummy and ginger.

Delayed Honeymoon Mr. Sydnor and Ms. Jamison opted for a mini-moon getaway following their wedding. Their true honeymoon will be delayed until international travel becomes feasible once again. They plan to travel to New Zealand, which is considered to be an extremely accessible country.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.18 article:
The Social Life of Forests





No.19 article:
Weekend Bags for a Fantasy Getaway





No.20 article:
Celebrate the Holidays with Cheese Pancakes and a Performance by Taylor Mac

This week, learn to fold paper airplanes, watch a new ballet or bake Emily Dickinson a birthday cake.

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

Fold a series of three different paper airplanes (and receive a lesson in aerodynamics while you’re at it) with the California Science Center’s “Planes With Elaine” video tutorial, part of its “Science Beyond the Center” series. Under the guidance of one of the museum’s educators, Elaine Krebs, you’ll learn how the plane’s body and wings impact its flight, and transform humble sheets of printer paper into aircrafts inspired by those on display at the museum. Sure, this tutorial is geared toward kids, but these crafts will stimulate parent minds, too.

When Anytime

Where californiasciencecenter.org/planes-with-elaine

Join Jenna Wortham and Kimberly Drew, the editors of “Black Futures,” as they discuss their new book with the writer and activist Raquel Willis and the photographer Naima Green. “Black Futures” is a collection of visual art and writing by Black artists and creators; it presents a “prismatic and private view of Black life,” the critic Scaachi Koul wrote in a recent review for the Times. Access is $15; the event is presented by the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Greenlight Bookstore.

When 7 p.m. 

Where bam.org/blackfutures

Watch dancers from the San Diego Ballet perform an ensemble piece from “Panama 66,” a new ballet, in the San Diego Museum of Art’s outdoor sculpture garden. The dancers will be accompanied by original music from Gilbert Castellanos, and to see past performances, you can head over to the San Diego Museum of Art’s YouTube channel.

When 9 p.m.

Where  sdmart.org/virtual-sdma-plus/

WednesdayExplore your emotions with the artist Mindy Stricke in an online abstract photography workshop. The workshop, sponsored by StoryBridge, is part of Ms. Stricke’s “National Park of Emotions,” a participatory art project that encourages people to explore how the pandemic has made them feel through writing and photography. The workshop is open to all participants and camera types, but attendance is capped at 200. 

When 1 p.m.

Where mindystricke.com/nationalparkofemotions

Bake Emily Dickinson’s famous 20-pound black cake, stick a candle in it and join the Houghton Library at Harvard University to celebrate the birthday of this acclaimed poet (and baker), who was born on this day in 1830. Experts and writers like Rachel Syme and A.N. Devers, along with Alena Smith, who created “Dickinson,” will discuss the poet, read her favorite poetry and share several original works. 

When 3 p.m.

Where library.harvard.edu/events/happy-birthday-emily-dickinson

Venture off to a salt lick popular with elephants in the Central African Republic, an Arctic iceberg and 1950s-era New York City with “Transposition,” a live, travel-inspired audio show. Part of the World According to Sound’s “Outside In” listening series, this immersive presentation will be followed by a Q. and A. with the composer Hildegard Westerkamp. Your holiday trips may have been curtailed this year, but that shouldn’t prevent you from embarking on an adventure. Entry is $25.

When 9 p.m.; organizers will email listening instructions and a program on the day of the event

Where theworldaccordingtosound.org/outsidein

Celebrate female filmmakers with a week of short-film releases from The Future of Film is Female, an organization dedicated to amplifying and supporting the work of women in film. A new film will be posted every morning at 10 a.m., from Dec. 7 to 11, and all five films will be available to stream online permanently after they are released.

When Anytime after posting

Where futureoffilmisfemale.com/december-shorts-2020

Ring in the holidays with the MacArthur fellow Taylor Mac’s performance of “Taylor Mac’s Holiday Sauce … Pandemic!” The show, which is available to stream from 18  venues, combines music, film, burlesque and “random acts of fabulousness” to celebrate the dysfunction of holidays and the power of chosen families. Tickets are available through the Center for the Art of Performance at the University of California, Los Angeles, one of the 18 presenters, for $25. Other venues are streaming it for free or pay-what-you-wish. 

When 10 p.m.

Where cap.ucla.edu/calendar/details/taylormacpandemic

Join dozens of musicians from around the world for “Con Alma,” a live performance adapted from the recent album of the same title created by the composers Paola Prestini and Magos Herrera. Throughout the event, the director Ashley Tata will weave together music videos, live drawings, audience submissions and conversations with several artists, helping bring to life music inspired by figures as varied as Rachel Carson and Mary Magdalene. 

When 7 p.m.

Where conalmaproject.com/event

Cook up a delicious Hanukkah treat with Amelia Saltsman. In two live workshops hosted by the Skirball Cultural Center, at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., Ms. Saltsman will demonstrate her recipe for sweet and savory cheese pancakes, inspired by her Romanian and Iraqi roots. The classes are each capped at 40 households, and tickets cost $15 per household. Registration closes on Dec. 9 at 9 p.m. 

When 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.

Where skirball.org/programs/holiday-programs/wide-world-hanukkah-treats





No.21 article:
Find Your Place in the Vaccine Line





No.22 article:
Judge John Hodgman on Contested Uno Victories

Nancy writes: My 11-year-old daughter and I play Uno during her breaks from online school. In a recent game, my last card was a Wild Swap Hands, which, if played, means you may swap hands with your opponent. She says that means she won. I disagree.

I appreciate her frustration. There’s only one Wild Swap Hands card in the deck, after all, and it was only added to the game five years ago. So, if your daughter is an Uno originalist, she may never recognize your victory. I could see an exotic legal argument suggesting that, by playing the W.S.H. card last, you must then swap your now-empty — and thus winning — hand for her remaining trash cards, making her the “winner.” But after consulting with the official Uno Twitter account, I can confirm that your win was fair and cannot be overturned. She should call off the lawsuits. They are just damaging her legacy at this point.





No.23 article:
Lights, Camera, Construction!

New and expanded soundstages across the city will help reshape neighborhoods and turn New York into a Hollywood of the east.

The long lists of shows displayed on streaming sites, which seem to grow exponentially by the day, serve to tell you what’s on. But in New York City, they also might reveal a bit about the future of your block.

Many of the studios that produced the television series, which have turned New York into a small-screen production hub, are now planning to open new facilities or expand what’s already here, some in parts of the city that have been unfamiliar with such large-scale investment.

Fueled by a pandemic-era demand for stay-at-home entertainment, and generous tax breaks, the studios are targeting a range of locations in Queens and Brooklyn, including historic red brick enclaves, working-class sections of the waterfront, and industrial precincts known not for celebrities, but concrete plants.

These areas may not look the same for long. Previous developments of soundstages, as these facilities are known because they are designed to be soundproof, have had transformative effects. The creation of Silvercup Studios in a former bread factory in Long Island City in the 1980s, for example, helped turn that part of Queens into a trendy destination.

Some residents seem ready for their neighborhood’s star turn.

“It’s exciting,” said Vanessa Pacini, a 17-year resident of East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a gritty industrial stretch where Netflix is planning a new home.

“People don’t really walk in this area. I would like to see more foot traffic,” said Ms. Pacini, who co-owns a local restaurant called Ange Noir Cafe. “But they have to keep the vibe.”

Low-slung, windowless and nondescript, many soundstages seem happy to strike a low-key profile. Indeed, Broadway Stages, which has several addresses in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, doesn’t offer much in the way of signage. On a recent afternoon, a notice taped to a wall at one location about the show “Billions” was one of the only indications of what transpires there.

But other soundstages are more overt about their role as place-maker, like the century-old Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, which was run for more than three decades, starting in the early 1980s, by George S. Kaufman, a member of a prominent real-estate family.

Originally owned by Paramount, which produced feature films including two starring the Marx Brothers in 1929 and 1930, the company sold the property in 1942 to the U.S. Army, which used it for decades to create propaganda and training films. Jack Lemmon was a star. Years later, at the same address, Lemmon would shoot “Glengarry Glen Ross.”

After renovating the soundstages, whose main building, a column-fronted landmark on 35th Avenue, dates to 1921, Mr. Kaufman took steps to revitalize the surrounding community, which today has schools, restaurants and apartments that would not have otherwise existed, said Hal G. Rosenbluth, the studio’s chief executive.

Series filmed at Kaufman Astoria, which has what is believed to be the only private outdoor stage, or backlot, on the East Coast, include “Sesame Street,” “Flight Attendant” (HBO Max) and “Dickinson” (Apple TV+).

“George would always say, ‘Once you invest in the community, you help yourself by helping others.’ It sounds like a p.r. kind of thing, but it really is a true statement,” Mr. Rosenbluth said.

More recently, in 2016, Kaufman Astoria, with Procida Companies, codeveloped the Marx, a 33-unit condo on 35th Street, where a two-bedroom unit with two baths was for sale last month for $995,000.

But the studio is also trying to meet the fresh demand for streaming video. This year, it cut the ribbon on two new soundstages, built on a former parking lot. Above them sit three floors of offices, which are open to nonfilm tenants. About 15,000 of the 65,000 square feet have leased so far.

Its next project, for which Kaufman Astoria has partnered with Silverstein Properties, is more ambitious. They hope to redevelop a five-block stretch south of 35th Avenue into Innovation QNS, a mixed-use district with parks, shops and 2,700 apartments. But the city would first need to rezone the area to allow for taller buildings, which could meet resistance.

Still, some who have peeked at the plans seem enthused. “It would be mind-blowing,” said Greg Kyroglou, 44, a resident of Astoria who grew up in the neighborhood and remembers when the area around Kaufman Astoria was bleak. “The studio has been a great asset,” said Mr. Kyroglou, now a real estate agent with the firm Modern Spaces.

While Kaufman Astoria may sit in an established neighborhood, most soundstages exist on the fringes, on streets that don’t see crowds, meaning the sites can feel like they’re backstage from the city itself.

Two new facilities are planned for just such a stretch, along 19th Avenue in Ditmars Steinway, Queens, which offers scrap metal yards, roofing-contractor shops and the entrance to Rikers Island. The first, an 11-stage version from a group that includes Robert De Niro, the actor, director and entrepreneur, will rise on a windswept parcel between the Steinway and Sons piano factory and a skinny creek. Developers, who paid $72 million for the site last winter, hope to break ground in a few months.

The other facility will rise inside a factory once occupied by an Asian food wholesaler known for its egg rolls. The studio, at 45th Street, will be operated by Broadway Stages, which bought it for $8.4 million in 2015 and plans to enlarge the property and add higher ceilings, city records show.

Broadway Stages, which began life in 1983 making MTV videos for musicians like Billy Idol, today offers 60 soundstages at 30 addresses, mostly in Brooklyn and Queens. But on Staten Island, it owns the former Arthur Kill Correctional Facility, a 67-acre former prison whose razor-wire-ringed yards have played host to “Orange Is the New Black,” “The Blacklist” and “Bull.”

The Industrial Age is also giving way to the Information Age in the area where East Williamsburg borders Bushwick, at Netflix’s site, which is where a printing plant once stood by railroad tracks on Johnson Avenue. Netflix, one of the top creators of original programming, which includes “Orange Is the New Black,” “Stranger Things” and “Emily in Paris,” intends to have six soundstages there.

Netflix plans to rent these new soundstages from Steel Equities, a Long Island developer, which bought the elongated site in January 2019 for $53 million, according to city records. Last month, Steel also purchased another site, at Johnson and Bogart Street, for $20 million, records show, prompting speculation about further expansion. 

“As long as they don’t build tall towers and tear down all the old buildings, it will be fine,” Ms. Pacini said. “We don’t want to look like Williamsburg.”

But light technicians, grips and actors won’t be the first to gentrify the area, where cement mixers continue to queue at concrete plants. Besides frequenting Ms. Pacini’s cafe, young stylish types already hang at restaurants like Rebel Cafe and Garden, which serves “disco fries” and grilled cheese ($15) in a plant-lined yard.

In Sunset Park, a large parking lot — complete with a Hollywood-style backlot archway — will be a selling point of a new eight-stage studio incorporating two existing brick warehouses that is planned by Steiner Studios, whose other complex, a 30-stage version at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, arrived in 2004.

At soundstages, most of the action takes place indoors. But directors occasionally capitalize on local scenery, and the Sunset Park address, amid the ruins of a former shipping district that has stunning waterfront views, is hard to beat, said Doug Steiner, the studio’s chairman.

Nicknamed Steiner Sequel, cameras aren’t expected to roll on these soundstages until 2024. After a two-year competitive process, the city awarded Mr. Steiner the 14-acre site under a 99-year lease in October. And Mr. Steiner, who has also made a name for himself as a developer of condos and rentals, is now talking to lenders for the $350 million project. As part of the deal, Steiner must complete the construction of next-door Bush Terminal Park, which now has a few sports fields, and build a playground there.

As Mr. Steiner sees it, some industries, even white-collar ones, are fading in New York, which means content creation for screens large and small is necessary. “It’s really critical to the future,” he said.

New York’s 1.5 million square feet of soundstages ranks it third in the country, after California, with 5.5 million and Georgia with 1.8 million, according to an October report from CBRE, the commercial real estate firm.

And employment in overall entertainment jobs has increased by 16 percent in New York since 2010, to 358,120, a rise many analysts attribute to soundstage growth, according to CBRE. Soundstage owners report being near full capacity. Steiner Studios’ occupancy level is about 95 percent.

Of course, coronavirus has taken a toll. New York productions were paused from March to mid-July, and soundstages are now operating at only 50 percent capacity under state pandemic rules. But quarantine, at least in the short term, seems to have had some benefits. Video-streaming has surged in popularity, up 74 percent nationally in the past year, CBRE said. And a quarter of all TV-watching involves streams.

Soundstage owners say the industry would be doomed without the hefty public subsidies provided by the state.

“Virtually all” of Steiner’s clients, for instance, avail themselves of tax breaks, which allow 25 percent of the cost of a large part of a production to be credited back. It’s the most generous package in the country, tied with California and Louisiana. “I lose sleep regularly over the thought of what would happen if they were to go away,” Mr. Steiner said. 

Season two of HBO’S “The Deuce,” which was partly filmed at Queens’s Silvercup Studios, for example, benefited from a $21 million credit in the third quarter of 2019, according to state figures.

Created in 2004 and set to expire in 2025, the breaks have so far created a tremendous amount of wealth, officials say. Since their introduction, the state has awarded nearly $8 billion in incentives to 2,200 movies and shows, most of which have been shot in the city. Those productions spent $40 billion and hired millions of workers, according to a spokeswoman for Empire State Development agency, and naturally pay some taxes, too.

But echoing the opponents of the deal to bring Amazon to Queens in exchange for $3 billion in breaks, critics call the film incentives a waste of public money because they believe the moviemakers would come to New York anyway.

“Saturday Night Live,” for example, has collected up to $15 million a year, according to the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group, but is unlikely to ever leave its New York base. The comedy show occasionally shoots at Kaufman Astoria Studios.

And with New York already facing a budget hole of billions of dollars, the “film tax credit is a very expensive incentive to provide at a time when New York state is withholding payments to school districts, nonprofits and others,” the group said.

If the method for luring movies is controversial (along with allowing shoots to disrupt streets and sidewalks), the result still seems to offer some benefits for communities.

“If it wasn’t for the studio, I don’t know where we would be today,” said Caroline Bell, a co-owner of Cafe Grumpy, a national chain of coffee shops whose pioneering location, in Greenpoint, is across from a Broadway Stages location.

In the cafe’s first year of business, in 2005, on otherwise sleepy days, large orders of “75 coffee drinks” would pour in from soundstage crews, Ms. Bell said. And actors would occasionally drop in, like Andrew McCarthy, who once popped back behind the bar to help. “That was exciting,” she said.

Similarly, Kingbridge Cleaners and Tailors, based inside the Brooklyn Navy Yard, has dry-cleaned Victorian suits worn by actors in “Boardwalk Empire,” which was filmed at nearby Steiner. Costumes from “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” another Steiner production, were also scrubbed, said Richard Aviles, a co-owner of the shop, who said the studio accounted for 20 percent of his business pre-Covid.

“It’s a very cool feeling to see costumes on TV that you’ve cleaned,” Mr. Aviles said. “Sometimes I watch them spill something on a dress, and think, I can’t believe we got that out.”

The upsides may also be less direct, like in Port Morris, in the Bronx, a rough-edged industrial neighborhood where in 2016 Silvercup opened a 115,000-square-foot soundstage facility in a former lighting warehouse. The towering complex, at Locust Avenue and East 139th Street, sits by a depot for oil trucks and a boarded-up rowhouse.

But some developers believe show-business-related businesses will eventually follow. At 825 East 141st Street, in the shadow of the Bruckner Expressway, a development team that includes the Altmark Group is converting a former baking factory for the A. &amp; P. supermarket chain into offices.

The eight-story charcoal-toned building, called Union Crossing, has been slow to lease because of Covid, said Ellen Israel, an agent with JRT Realty Group, which is marketing it. But Ms. Israel envisions companies involved in scenery and lighting as tenants. Asking rents are about $25 per square foot a year.

“Silvercup is a known entity, and if you are doing business with them, you don’t want to be too far away,” she said. “We’re trying to create a vibe.”

In the end, there might be no surer sign of growth potential than the increasing interest from traditional real estate circles.

This fall, Square Mile Capital Management, a New York firm that previously had invested in offices and apartment buildings, and Hackman Capital Partners, a Los Angeles company with office properties, snapped up Silvercup for $369.3 million. And the deal is one of several recently for the team that involves film facilities, including California’s historic Culver Studios.

For its part, Silvercup, whose rooftop sign is visible from Manhattan, has had a string of successes since opening in 1983, including “Sex and the City,” “The Sopranos” and “Succession.”

“I think it’s pretty clear that something is going on with streaming video, perhaps accelerated by the impacts of Covid, but probably because of a change in consumer behavior,” said Craig Solomon, Square Mile’s chief executive.

And additional soundstages may be only part of the calculation. Mr. Solomon would not rule out adding apartments or office buildings at or near Silvercup, which in addition to its main location near the Ed Koch-Queensborough Bridge and its Bronx soundstage, has others in an industrial zone near Calvary Cemetery in Sunnyside.

“It’s natural to want to continue to grow and benefit from the placemaking aspects of these properties,” Mr. Solomon said. “At the end of the day, it’s the business we are in.”





No.24 article:
The Best Books to Give This Year

Book Review





No.25 article:
Traveling? Be Prepared to Quarantine

If you’re thinking of traveling in the coming weeks, here’s what to think about first. 

Though the number of air travelers topped one million on the Sunday after Thanksgiving, many Americans opted not to travel for the holiday. (The equivalent number a year ago, 2019’s biggest travel day, was more than 2.8 million). But even as coronavirus cases continue to surge, the winter holidays and breaks from school may have more people contemplating taking some time away from home in the coming weeks. 

Making that choice could require you to quarantine both before you leave and once you get back (the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently updated its quarantine guidance, suggesting a seven-day quarantine followed by a negative test or a 10-day quarantine without testing if a person does not develop symptoms). 

 If you’re contemplating a trip, here’s what to think about before you leave. 

State travel regulations aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus are changing by the day.

As of Dec. 4, California is encouraging domestic travelers arriving in the state to quarantine for two weeks. Massachusetts is requiring residents returning from almost every state to complete a form before arrival and quarantine for two weeks afterward. Those who arrive with a negative result from a Covid-19 test administered up to 72 hours before entering the state can forgo quarantine. Travelers who fail to comply may face a $500 fine per day.

New York requires a 14-day quarantine for those who leave the state for more than 24 hours and are returning from states and territories that are not contiguous with New York or from certain high-risk countries. Travelers can “test out” of the quarantine if they receive a negative test result within three days before their return, quarantine for three days upon arrival plus take another test on the fourth day that comes back negative.

Even if your state doesn’t have such requirements, Dr. Lin Chen, the president of the International Society of Travel Medicine and the travel clinic director at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., said it’s safest to take tests before and after a trip. If you’re flying, you may get infected in transit. Plus, about 40 percent of people who test positive for the virus may never show symptoms, Dr. Chen said, and tests aren’t always reliable.

“I would still want everybody to be careful and take all the precautions,” she added. “It doesn’t mean that with a negative test, one should take off the mask.”

If you will have to take a test upon returning from your trip, the Department of Health and Human Services website has a list of testing sites in each state.

Employers can take certain precautions to keep their workplaces safe during the pandemic. If you have been working in a shared workplace and are traveling, ask your company what is expected of you upon returning. (Some companies may even ask their employees not to travel at all if it isn’t essential.)

According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, an employer may ask its employees to stay home until it’s clear they don’t have the coronavirus if they have traveled to certain locations flagged by the C.D.C. or local health officials. New Hampshire, for instance, encourages employers to ask employees if they have made any nonessential trips outside of the state and a few surrounding states. Employees who have must quarantine at home for two weeks before returning to work. They can cut that period short if, on their seventh day back, they are asymptomatic and take a test that comes back negative.

Ask your employer if post-travel quarantine would fall under paid sick leave. You may be eligible for it under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, an emergency measure passed in March by the federal government. But the act covers only two weeks of paid sick leave to eligible employees, and it may be of better use in the event that you contract the virus. Thirteen states and Washington, D.C., have laws that require paid sick leave for eligible employees, but you should research whether quarantine qualifies for paid leave under those specific laws.

If you have to return to work immediately after your trip and don’t have the option of telecommuting, you may want to consider canceling your plans. Similarly, if your children have been attending school in person, check if they will be allowed back in the classroom if you travel.

If you will have to quarantine for two weeks after your trip, stock up on groceries, hygiene products and other essentials before traveling (and be aware that some retailers are putting limits on items that proved hard to get during the early days of the pandemic, like toilet paper and paper towels). It never hurts to have plenty of shelf staples in your kitchen. If you can secure an advance delivery time, set up deliveries with online services like Instacart, Shipt or AmazonFresh to have groceries delivered from local stores upon your return. Or use food delivery apps like Grubhub, DoorDash and Uber Eats, which are available in hundreds of cities.

Think of how you’re going to unwind and fight off cabin fever. Plenty of classic holiday movies, including “It’s a Wonderful Life” and “Elf,” are available to stream online.

While the internet offers no shortage of shows, movies, TikTok videos and the like, you may want to have analog distractions to get a break from screens. Order a few books online that can greet you at your doorstep when you return. Buy puzzles to solve with your whole family. Children may enjoy creating holiday-themed arts and crafts projects — order kits ahead of time. And board games like Risk and Dungeons &amp; Dragons can keep you busy for hours.

During the pandemic, Kristin Addis, the chief executive of Be My Travel Muse, a company that helps women travel solo, has quarantined at home in Nevada a few times after visiting French Polynesia, Mexico and Aruba. She passed the time by practicing yoga and Pilates and video chatting with friends and family. “I kind of do the things that I did during lockdown to stay sane,” she said.

Know what to do in case you contract the virus during your trip. Will you be able to extend your Airbnb or hotel and reschedule any transportation that involves being with other people? If you’re sharing a household with others and fall ill, self-isolate in one room and have someone leave your meals and other essentials outside your door. If you have the option, designate one bathroom to yourself.

If you don’t have enough room to self isolate during the entire quarantine period, the C.D.C. recommends separating from others as much as possible. Always maintain six feet of distance, disinfect shared surfaces, such as kitchen counters and bathroom sinks, and open the windows to circulate fresh air. If you have to share a bedroom with someone else, the C.D.C. suggests placing a divider such as a shower curtain or quilt between you and the other person, and sleeping in inverse directions. Caregivers should also quarantine for two weeks after the ill person ends self-isolation.





No.26 article:
I Want to Live in the Reality of ‘The Queen’s Gambit’

There’s a surprising scene near the end of the second episode of “The Queen’s Gambit” when things take a disorienting turn for the better. Beth Harmon (Anya Taylor-Joy), an eerily stoic orphan recently adopted by a lonely, alcoholic housewife, has just won the Kentucky State Chess Championship, and Alma (Marielle Heller), her new adoptive mother, struggles to process the information. She’d had no idea how serious Beth was, or how gifted. For a moment, it’s unclear how she’ll take it. Alma is herself a talented pianist who never had the courage to play in public. It’s intimated that she lost a child. Her husband has just abandoned her. The series has spent the better part of two episodes piling traumas on Beth. Her unstable birth mother was killed in a crash with Beth in the car. She was placed in an orphanage where the kids were given tranquilizers along with their vitamins. The show is suffused in a gloomy, gothic atmosphere. Certain expectations have been set. Surely, fresh disasters lurk around the corner.

Instead, one by one, they are averted. We’ve already watched, in the first episode, as Beth wanders downstairs to the basement to find a taciturn janitor with a haunted expression brooding over a chessboard, but rather than molest her, he teaches her to play. We’ve already seen her adoption, at age 15, by Alma and her husband, Allston, who radiates bad vibes but mostly leaves her alone. After he deserts them, in Episode 2, it seems almost certain that the show will foist Alma into the role of mother-as-emotional-anvil who will hold Beth back from her dream, but again our expectations are foiled. Alma instead suggests they go to a tournament in Cincinnati. They’ll lie to the school. They’ll make a fun adventure of it. You don’t see this turn coming, and you don’t quite trust it. Next time, you think, Beth won’t be so lucky. And yet she almost always is.

“The Queen’s Gambit,” a Netflix series based on a 1983 novel by Walter Tevis, is a bildungsroman about a female chess prodigy set in the late 1960s. Nothing about this combination of circumstances suggests a happy ending for its protagonist, or for the show itself. But both defied expectations. “The Queen’s Gambit” was watched by 62 million households in its first four weeks, according to Netflix — almost as many as the record-breaking “Tiger King” — and developed a fanatical following. People tweeted their drawings and paintings and Animal Crossing renderings of Taylor-Joy. They announced they were taking up chess again. Sales of chess-related merchandise soared.

Everybody loves a story of transformation: about an underdog who triumphs over adversity, a girl who is mocked for her shoes and then becomes a stylish swan. But we apparently really love a story of affirmation: a world in which a girl can move freely, in control, and be respected for her strategy and skill; in which a female character succeeds in a man’s world without being harassed, assaulted, abused, ignored, dismissed, sidelined, robbed or forgotten. This story is so vanishingly rare in the real world that it comes across as utopian in fiction. “The Queen’s Gambit” is a fantasy, and one we rarely see depicted — the fantasy of a functioning meritocracy for women, in which they are free to do what they want.

After Beth wins her second tournament, in Cincinnati, Alma asks to be her agent. Beth accepts, and together they embark on a rule-breaking mother-daughter buddy-adventure tournament tour. In the montage, Alma gleefully lies to the school while applying lipstick, inventing illnesses for Beth as she decides between outfits to pack. The two of them jet around from city to city, wrangling excellent upgrades and eating at restaurants. In fancy hotel rooms, Beth goes over her games while Alma lounges on the sofa in a slip, enjoying a cocktail and laughing at the TV. The convention-flouting swagger of it is especially thrilling, as Alma realizes she’s free from the whole 1950s domestic trap. At tournaments, star-struck young boys clamor for Beth’s autograph and her approval. (One nerdy kid tells her he’s started a chess club.) It has been established that Beth is a genius, and a genius gets to do whatever she wants as a rapt world cheers her on. Right?

The tragic tale of the doomed girl genius is a perennial favorite. In literature and film, the male genius is lionized; the female genius is institutionalized. This is just how it goes. These stories reinforce the idea that a woman can either be a genius or be loved/happy/sane/free — not because she threatens the male-​supremacist power structure (or so we’re told), but because there’s no place in the world for an anomaly like her. Even sympathetic narratives show how this is true, reclaiming the genius from obscurity, as in the case of “Hidden Figures”; or depicting the nearly impossible trials she had to go through to be acknowledged, as in the R.B.G. documentary; or not acknowledged until it’s too late, as in “Bombshell: The Hedy Lamarr Story.” Nobody cheers for the girl genius while she’s out there, being a genius.

“The Queen’s Gambit” seems designed as a critique of and an upgrade to this entire genre. Instead of being put through the familiar degrading gantlet, we watch as Beth encounters only the mildest resistance to her participation in competitive chess. She’s never asked to bend to the world; the world bends around her. Her eccentricities and shortcomings are not only given a pass but a sort of primacy. She’s a rock star, in other words — the rules are different for her. Alma recognizes this early on, as do her competitors-turned-lovers and friends. One woman on Twitter wrote: “Just finished ‘The Queen’s Gambit’ and am very taken with the idea of all my exes in a room somewhere cheering me on.” Another replied: “This is what I fantasize about when I masturbate. Seriously.” Beth buys a killer wardrobe. She buys a house. She becomes an independent woman, at a time when there were so few of them, simply by being good at what she does and being recognized for it.

At first I assumed that the character of Beth was based on an actual person, but it soon became obvious that this wasn’t the case. The fluidity of her rise and the lack of resistance she encounters on her way to the top gave it away. At this moment, both in politics and the pandemic, in which women have been disproportionately sidelined and burdened, this kind of meritocratic, gender-agnostic fiction is desperately needed. It cheers us up. It reminds us of who we’re supposed to be. It reassures us in the same way that the chessboard — predictable, rule-bound, well delimited — makes Beth feel secure and in control. “The Queen’s Gambit” provides the perfect escape from this strange reality we’re living in, this uncanny Upside-Down, by imagining a world in which talent, hard work and fair play alone are rewarded, in which everyone is equal and everyone has a shot; where power isn’t corrupt, the game isn’t rigged and a winner can expect the enthusiastic, uncontested acknowledgment of her victories. Nothing could be further from our current reality, but who needs our current reality? What we need now is something else.





No.27 article:
Momona Tamada’s Week: ‘Satisfying’ Baking Videos and Peace Through Podcasts

The young actress, who stars in “The Baby-Sitters Club” on Netflix, had a head start on our new, socially distant reality.

Like many of us, Momona Tamada, 14, has been trying to make the best of a tough year. Sure, the effervescent actress and dancer, who stars as the young trendsetting artist Claudia Kishi on Netflix’s summer hit “The Baby-Sitters Club,” has been shining by most measures — but pandemic life requires adaptation.

“Personally, I’m not a big fan of online learning,” the actress said, in a phone call in late November. In addition to school, she has been auditioning remotely, and taking vocal lessons and dance classes over Zoom. “The screens, they’re inverted, so everyone is going in different directions, and it’s a bit confusing,” she said of ballet.

But in some ways, between the demands of school and her career, she had a head start on our new reality. “I had to switch to online last year even before everything kind of went crazy,” she said from her home in Vancouver, British Columbia, where she’d been hunkered down with her parents, her younger brother, Hiro, and her puppy, a black Shiba Inu named Miso who is “always doing something funny.”

Being online early has had its perks. “It definitely helped me find my own pace,” Tamada said. “I’m glad that I had a year to kind of get used to it,” she went on. “It’s a struggle to balance schoolwork and working a lot.”

She played a young Lara Jean in the popular Netflix rom-com “To All the Boys: P.S. I Still Love You” (2020). And “The Baby-Sitters Club” — a full-hearted, charming and progressive adaptation of the wildly popular Ann Martin book series of the same name — was renewed in October for a second season. As for when they’d start filming again, Tamada wasn’t sure. “I hope the virus doesn’t get worse,” she said. “I miss being on set and I miss all my friends.”

There was a glimmer of normalcy, though, the day we talked. “Today is actually the first day I get to go back to dance,” she said with the crackling excitement of someone finally getting to leave her neighborhood. The actress also told me about her recent routines and the cultural items that have been inspiring her in these weird times. These are edited excerpts from our conversation.

I woke up and took a shower while listening to the first chapter of the book, “Life as We Knew It,” for school. But I have a main book that I’m reading: “Crazy Rich Asians.” I love the movie. So I wanted to read the book.

And I took my pup on a quick walk. She is still new to this, but enjoying the fresh air. We got her in October, and we’re getting her used to kind of socializing with other dogs and other people. She’s the sweetest puppy ever, but she is also very smart, actually, and she has a lot of energy. So once she starts running, she can’t focus and, yeah, she kind of goes crazy [laughs].

Then I made a TikTok — kind of like my trailer in 30 seconds. I was just piecing together a bunch of funny videos that I found. Personally, I love watching fashion videos and fashion-inspiration videos. Also, one of my hobbies is baking, and I just love the short little tutorials. It’s so satisfying how cakes are being made, like how they pipe everything out. I think that’s what’s so cool about TikTok is that you probably never see the same thing twice. It inspires me to maybe make what I saw.

Later, I had a vocal lesson over Zoom, and I sang “What It Means to Be a Friend” from the musical “13.” The songs that I’m currently singing in my lessons, my coach and I agreed on together.

I took an online ballet class. I’ve been dancing since I was 4 — jazz and tap are probably my two favorites. But I pretty much do everything.

While updating my journal, I listened to an episode of a podcast called “Daily Breath” with Deepak Chopra. That was my first time listening to it, but I love it so far. It’s like five to seven minutes, and it brings such a good start to your day. Or I listen to it before I go to sleep and it really calms me down, because sometimes I get very anxious. It’s a lot about self-love. Almost like meditation. The things that he talks about really resonate with my life. It helps ground me and center me.

Before I went to sleep, I studied a script for my audition [the next day]. It’s a long script. I’m happy with how it turned out.

I woke up and listened to another episode of “Daily Breath” and to some music on shuffle. Some of the songs that popped up included “POV,” by Ariana Grande, “Lovesick Girls” by Blackpink, “Falling” by Harry Styles and “American Boy” by Estelle. I listen to a variety of music, whatever makes me happy.

I took some pictures of my pup in Vancouver because it was so nice out and then watched YouTube videos while eating lunch: Michelle Khare’s “I Tried Lifeguard Academy” video. Michelle does all these — she did like training to be a pop singer and training to be an F.B.I. agent. I think that’s so interesting. I can see a little bit into other people’s careers and the challenges they have to face to get to where they are.

That night, Mom asked me to make pizza dough for our dinner. Yes! I love making dough. Something fun to do with my family. My pizza was so tasty. I’m a bigger baker than a cook, but I totally just try cooking new recipes all of the time. I just go off the fly and think about like, “Oh, maybe this is good together.” And usually it’s pretty good. I love watching Tasty, that YouTube channel.

Then I had an online ballet class after dinner. We played a terminology game in the last few minutes. My teacher had a bunch of, I guess, French terms — a word or, like, a move. And we have to define what that means in English. And then she’d mentioned a character from a ballet. For example, she said, “Clara,” and we’d say, “Oh, she’s in ‘The Nutcracker.’”

Before bedtime, I played “Among Us” with friends. It’s been trending for the past few months, and it’s just so fun. It’s anonymous, and you can’t add people on it, so you’re always in a game with new people. (But you can play with your friends by giving them the code.) There’s one person that’s the impostor, and they go around, like, killing people. It’s not as violent as it sounds, I promise. But you have to figure out who the impostor is. And I’ve played Minecraft since I was like 9. The cast of “The Baby-Sitters Club,” we used to play all the time on set. It’s a collaborative thing. And you get to really just create whatever you were imagining.





No.28 article:
All Santa Wants for Christmas Is to Stay Out of Politics

After a brush with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, professional Santa Clauses are just trying to get through this holiday season safely.

Ric Erwin is one of thousands of men for whom Santa Claus is both a sacred idea and a seasonal occupation. Earlier this year, he was looking forward to donning his red velvet suit and hat this December, just as he has each winter for the last decade.

But the pandemic has thrown a wrench in the usual Christmas shows and shopping mall photo ops. And Mr. Erwin, 62, who is the chairman of the board of the Fraternal Order of Real Bearded Santas — a national association for men who grow and maintain their own beards to play Santa Claus at holiday events — has found himself advocating for 500 professionals to safely support their work while virus cases are surging.

[How Santas in New York are staying safe this year.]

In September, Mr. Erwin, who lives in Hemet, Calif., testified virtually before the Centers for Disease Control’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. He noted that the production and distribution of an H1N1 vaccine in 2009 allowed Santa Claus performers to save Christmas that year. He hoped the C.D.C. could similarly expedite a vaccine in time for this holiday season.

After his testimony, Mr. Erwin received several phone calls, voicemails and emails from Michael R. Caputo, the assistant secretary for public affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services, who hoped to broker a deal with the Santas. Mr. Erwin recalled Mr. Caputo telling him that the White House was interested in having Santas participate in a 35-city rollout campaign for Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort to develop a coronavirus vaccine. In exchange, he promised the Santas access to a vaccine by mid-October.

“That sounded like a great deal to us,” Mr. Erwin said. “Within 24 hours we had over 100 volunteers. The response was overwhelming.”

Mr. Caputo told Mr. Erwin he couldn’t wait to tell President Trump that the Santas were onboard with the plan. Then, Mr. Erwin said, Mr. Caputo, the C.D.C. and the H.H.S. ghosted him.

Mr. Erwin realized Mr. Caputo was never going to call him back when The Wall Street Journal published an article in late October stating that the campaign, which was meant to include not only Santa players but also celebrities, had been scrapped. (In a statement to The New York Times, an H.H.S. spokeswoman reiterated: “This collaboration will not be happening.”)

“We saw the handwriting on the wall and we knew there was not going to be a collaboration at that point, so if we were going to save Christmas this year it was just going to be the Clauses,” Mr. Erwin said.

In addition to stoking some false hope, his negotiations with the federal government drew attention to the myriad societies Santa Claus performers belong to today (though the word “performers” is scorned by those who take a method approach to the role). There are regional groups (like the Lone Star Santas and the New England Santa Society), as well as national and international ones.

For the most part, these organizations try to stay out of politics, activism and other kinds of campaigning. So some Santas were annoyed.

“First of all, Santa lives in the North Pole — he doesn’t live in the United States,” said Stephen Arnold, 70, a Memphis resident and president of the International Brotherhood of Real Bearded Santas (I.B.R.B.S.), a trade group with more than 2,000 members. “He might have an interest in seeing that the United States is a calm and safe place for him to visit and deliver Christmas presents, but as a Santa Claus, you shouldn’t have a political posture.”

Mr. Arnold added that his understanding was that only four or five people would end up eligible for an early shot of the vaccine according to the offer Mr. Caputo made to Mr. Erwin.

To be fair, Mr. Arnold and Mr. Erwin have some history. The Fraternal Order of Real Bearded Santas (F.O.R.B.S.) emerged out of the dissolution more than a decade ago of the Amalgamated Order of Real Bearded Santas (A.O.R.B.S.), which was wrapped in scandal at the time. (“If you Google ‘Santa Wars,’ you’ll find articles on it,” Mr. Arnold said.) Today, F.O.R.B.S. is much smaller than I.B.R.B.S., which also includes Mrs. Clauses, and there are members of each group who will not forget the Santa tension of years past.

Personal matters aside, Mr. Arnold said his resistance to take part in the government campaign revolved largely around a desire to remain apolitical.

“Most of our members were reluctant to consider being first in line because they felt that the whole thing on vaccines was being politically manipulated,” he said. “We work very hard on not being political. We do not allow any political posts or anything on our Facebook group pages.”

“If somebody posts something that’s even slightly interpreted as a political statement, it’s gone instantly,” he continued. “It’s just deleted.”

Should a member like to make a statement out-of-character, that’s fine, Mr. Arnold said. “We encourage all of our Santas who want to make political posts to create a separate page where they don’t wear any red, and don’t indicate they’re Santa Claus or have Santa in their names,” he said.

At this point, according to C.D.C. recommendations, Santa players shouldn’t expect to be vaccinated before Christmas. So, what does that mean for this holiday season?

“Generally speaking, within the Santa community, we are being as cautious as possible,” Mr. Arnold said. “There’s a small contingency of people who have laughed it off and said ‘I’m going to go on normally, I won’t be performing with a mask.’” Most members of Santa organizations, however, are considered high-risk coronavirus candidates: They are retirees in their 70s and 80s and many have underlying health conditions, Mr. Erwin said.

“There isn’t a group of people that are more compromised than the Christmas Committee,” Mr. Arnold said. “A lot of us are old and have diabetes. Most of us have a heart problem, most of us are obese. We check every box.”

While many Santa-related innovations have come out of 2020 — holiday-themed masks, plexiglass and acrylic walls that can be made to look invisible in photos, video calls, drive-through greetings — Mr. Erwin is most enticed by the idea of placing Santa in a vinyl dome.

The dome provides physical separation, but it can also be explained with a clever story for the children to understand, Mr. Erwin said.

“If parents don’t want to explain virus transmission, they can say Santa got trapped in a snow globe by an elf magician and you have to come visit him at the globe,” he said.

But Mr. Erwin won’t be scheduling any in-person visits this year. His father-in-law suffered a stroke in April and was hospitalized for 30 days before he died; none of his family members were able to visit because of the pandemic. Mr. Erwin told his wife and his mother-in-law, who makes Santa costumes and goes by Mother Claus, that he would not take any chances with the virus.

“I don’t even care about giving up my season,” Mr. Erwin said. “I’m thinking about the 150,000 plus people that did not have to die.” He blames the rising toll on the current administration and plans to deliver fitting gifts to its members this Christmas.

“As a Santa, I am neutral and love everybody, but as a citizen I have to say something,” Mr. Erwin said, adding that he would not be giving politicians coal. “They are getting dryer lint, at best.”





No.29 article:
DealBook: How to Fix America





No.30 article:
Trump’s Final Days of Rage and Denial

The last act of the Trump presidency has taken on the stormy elements of a drama more common to history or literature than a modern White House.

WASHINGTON — Over the past week, President Trump posted or reposted about 145 messages on Twitter lashing out at the results of an election he lost. He mentioned the coronavirus pandemic now reaching its darkest hours four times — and even then just to assert that he was right about the outbreak and the experts were wrong.

Moody and by accounts of his advisers sometimes depressed, the president barely shows up to work, ignoring the health and economic crises afflicting the nation and largely clearing his public schedule of meetings unrelated to his desperate bid to rewrite the election results. He has fixated on rewarding friends, purging the disloyal and punishing a growing list of perceived enemies that now includes Republican governors, his own attorney general and even Fox News.

The final days of the Trump presidency have taken on the stormy elements of a drama more common to history or literature than a modern White House. His rage and detached-from-reality refusal to concede defeat evoke images of a besieged overlord in some distant land defiantly clinging to power rather than going into exile or an erratic English monarch imposing his version of reality on his cowed court.

And while he will leave office in 46 days, the last few weeks may only foreshadow what he will be like after he departs. Mr. Trump will almost certainly try to shape the national conversation from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida and his relentless campaign to discredit the election could undercut his successor, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. Although many Republicans would like to move on, he appears intent on forcing them to remain in thrall to his need for vindication and vilification even after his term expires.

On Saturday night, Mr. Trump took his unreality show to Georgia for his first major public appearance since the Nov. 3 election. A rally to support two Republican senators in a runoff next month offered a high-profile opportunity to vent his grievances and promote his false claims that he was somehow cheated of a second term by a vast conspiracy.

“You know we won Georgia, just so you understand,” he told supporters in a state that he lost by 12,000 votes, adding that he actually won other states where in fact he lost too. “They cheated and they rigged our presidential election, but we will still win it,” he declared as he pressured Republican state officials to overturn the results. “We just need somebody with courage to do what they have to do.”

At times, Mr. Trump’s railing-against-his-fate outbursts seem like a story straight out of William Shakespeare, part tragedy, part farce, full of sound and fury. Is Mr. Trump a modern-day Julius Caesar, forsaken by even some of his closest courtiers? (Et tu, Bill Barr?) Or a King Richard III who wars with the nobility until being toppled by Henry VII? Or King Lear, railing against those who do not love and appreciate him sufficiently? How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless electorate.

“This is classic Act V behavior,” said Jeffrey R. Wilson, a Shakespearean scholar at Harvard who published the book “Shakespeare and Trump” this year. “The forces are being picked off and the tyrant is holed up in his castle and he’s growing increasingly anxious and he feels insecure and he starts blustering about his legitimate sovereignty and he starts accusing the opposition of treason.”

Others hear echoes from the East, recalling autocrats in the far reaches of the former Soviet Union barricading themselves in presidential palaces while furiously spinning out enemies-of-the-people propaganda to justify holding onto power after popular uprisings.

Alina Polyakova, the president of the Center for European Policy Analysis and a Russia scholar, said Mr. Trump reminded her of President Vladimir V. Putin, who has largely withdrawn from view recently amid public discontent in the late stages of an aging regime.

“Both also seem to be living in alternate realities surrounded only by those who confirm those realities,” she said. “But whereas one brooder will weather a slow and long decline, the other is increasingly facing a rapid decline and scrambling to do what he can to save his family and loyalists — and of course himself.”

Students of the American presidency, on the other hand, could think of no recent parallel. “As we move toward Inauguration Day, I have thought almost daily of a remark attributed to Henry Adams: ‘I expected the worst, and it was worse than I expected,’” said Patricia O’Toole, a biographer of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson as well as Adams.

Unlike any of his modern predecessors, Mr. Trump has not called his victorious opponent, much less invited him to the White House for the traditional postelection visit. Mr. Trump has indicated that he may not attend Mr. Biden’s inauguration, which would make him the first sitting president since 1869 to refuse to participate in the most important ritual of the peaceful transfer of power.

He has been enabled by Republican leaders unwilling to stand up to him, even if many privately wish he would go away sooner rather than later. After being called “profiles in cowardice” by an ally of the president, 64 Republican state legislators from Pennsylvania on Friday disavowed their own election and called on Congress to reject the state’s electors for Mr. Biden. Only 27 of 249 Republican members of Congress surveyed by The Washington Post publicly acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory. Mr. Trump condemned them on Saturday as “RINOS,” meaning Republicans in name only.

“He really has paid attention to the base,” said Christopher Ruddy, a friend of the president’s and chief executive of Newsmax, part of the conservative news media megaphone that has amplified Mr. Trump’s allegations. “They got him elected and in his mind got him elected the second time. And they’re strongly in favor of this recount effort and they want him to continue this. In his mind, he’s not just doing this for himself he’s doing it for his supporters and for the country. He’s on a mission and he’s not going to be easily swayed.”

Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed is a fire hose of denial. “NO WAY WE LOST THIS ELECTION,” he wrote at one point in recent days. “We won Michigan by a lot!” he wrote at another of a state he lost by more than 154,000 votes. He reposted a message seeking to delegitimize Mr. Biden: “If he is inaugurated under these circumstances, he cannot be considered ‘president’ but instead referred to as the #presidentialoccupant.”

And he has turned on his own party, angry that Republican leaders have refused to accept his baseless claims and overturn the will of the voters. Shortly before arriving in Georgia on Saturday, Mr. Trump called Gov. Brian Kemp to press him to convene a special legislative session to supplant the results there, then lashed out at the governor at the rally for rebuffing him. “Your governor could stop it very easily if he knew what the hell he was doing,” Mr. Trump said. He also tweeted that Mr. Kemp and Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona, another Republican stalwart, “fight harder against us than do the Radical Left Dems.”

He has been riled that his invented claims have been widely refuted. “Many people in the media — and even judges — so far have refused to accept it,” Mr. Trump said in a rambling 46-minute videotaped rant from the White House this past week. “They know it’s true. They know it’s there. They know who won the election, but they refuse to say you’re right. Our country needs somebody to say, ‘You’re right.’ ”

But even as the president desperately demands that somebody, anybody, tell him that he is right, no one in a position of authority has done so other than blood relatives, paid lawyers and partisan soul mates. The election has been certified and accepted not just by Democrats but also by key Republican governors, secretaries of state, election officials, city clerks, judges and even Trump administration officials.

After his own cybersecurity czar endorsed the integrity of the election, Mr. Trump fired him. Now that Attorney General William P. Barr has said he saw no fraud that would overturn the results, he may be next.

Mr. Trump’s video was so out of touch with the facts that both Facebook and Twitter appended warning notices lest viewers actually believe what the president of the United States was telling them. Which explains why the only topic other than the election to draw Mr. Trump’s interest over the last week was the annual defense bill that he vowed to veto because Congress did not strip legal protection for big technology companies as he has demanded.

By contrast, he expressed little interest in the coronavirus now ravaging the country or the resulting economic devastation. Rather than “rounding the corner,” as Mr. Trump insisted once again on Saturday night, the pandemic this past week began killing a record high of nearly 3,000 people in the United States every day, almost the equivalent of another Sept. 11, 2001, attack every 24 hours.

Mr. Trump made no comment on that in his Twitter rants nor about the latest jobs report documenting the economic toll. His only four tweets mentioning the virus were about defending his own handling of it, including reposted messages asserting that “The president was RIGHT.”

As the circle around Mr. Trump shrinks and even allies like Mr. Barr distance themselves, the president resists any suggestion that he stand down. “I’m never, ever going to concede,” he told one ally who urged him to prepare to do so. And if he is not listening to advisers, many are no longer listening to him.

At one point, Mr. Trump appeared to telephone Mr. Ducey even as he was certifying Arizona’s results on live television and the governor refused to take the president’s call, which was announced by a “Hail to the Chief” ring tone.

Top Republican lawyers have dropped off his election lawsuits, which have been dismissed by the dozens and even in one case declared “bizarre” by a judge appointed by Mr. Trump. Five courts in five battleground states rejected his latest legal challenges to the election in a little more than three hours on Friday, with a Wisconsin judge warning that “this is a dangerous path we are being asked to tread.”

Sliding further from the mainstream, the president has aligned himself more with fringe news outlets like One America News Network and the conspiracy theorists of QAnon, who believe the world is run by a cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles plotting against Mr. Trump. In a meeting with Republican senators, according to an official confirming a report in The Post, Mr. Trump said QAnon followers “basically believe in good government,” a comment that left the room silent until his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, volunteered that he had never heard them described that way.

With six weeks until he leaves office, Mr. Trump remains as unpredictable and erratic as ever. He may fire Mr. Barr or others, issue a raft of pardons to protect himself and his allies or incite a confrontation overseas. Like King Lear, he may fly into further rages and find new targets for his wrath.

“If there are these analogies between classic literature and society as it’s operating right now, then that should give us some big cause for concern this December,” said Mr. Wilson, the Shakespearean scholar. “We’re approaching the end of the play here and that’s where catastrophe always comes.”





No.31 article:
Candice Bergen, Woman Who’s Had It All

There may be some things more fun than hanging out with Candice Bergen and talking about Michael Caine, Sean Connery, Steve McQueen, Jack Nicholson, Princess Diana, Princess Grace, John Belushi, Donald Trump, Charles Manson, getting fat, getting old, getting wrinkled and not giving a damn.

But I don’t know of anything.

The woman who once specialized in playing icy Nordic beauties has a great throaty, spontaneous laugh. She’s an adventuress who has traveled to the most exotic spots, often solo with her camera. And she’s a Scheherazade who can tell witty stories about a Tiffany’s window of glitterati.

I mean, she was at Truman Capote’s legendary Black and White Ball in 1966 at the Plaza, wearing Halston’s white mink mask with the long bunny ears and pink satin nose, chatting up newlyweds Mia Farrow and Frank Sinatra. Need I say more?

“There was a guy who wore an executioner’s hood,” Ms. Bergen recalled of the party. “It got a little creepy.” She doesn’t wear fur and hasn’t eaten meat in 40 years, but still has the bunny mask on display in her living room in New York.

The Bergen family traces the history of show business in America, from the rise of her father, Edgar, in vaudeville, radio and fledgling TV as a ventriloquist — with a smart-aleck dummy named Charlie McCarthy — to Candice’s own half-century career in movies and TV, capped by her five Emmys for “Murphy Brown.”

When she was young, her parents had Christmas smorgasbords at their Beverly Hills house with the cream of Old Hollywood: the Reagans schmoozing; Fred Astaire twirling her mother, Frances; and Rex Harrison singing songs from “My Fair Lady” accompanied by Henry Mancini on the piano.

Then, in the 1970s, Ms. Bergen became the first woman to host “Saturday Night Live.” She chummed around with Mr. Nicholson, Mike Nichols and the hip crowd of moviemakers who ushered in what was then known as New Hollywood.

Now, at 74, Ms. Bergen is in the swim with streaming, starring with Meryl Streep and Dianne Wiest in “Let Them All Talk,” an extemporaneous movie for HBO Max, directed and filmed by Steven Soderbergh with a hand-held camera on board the Queen Mary 2, as actual passengers wandered about.

“The passengers were really overweight,” Ms. Bergen recalled with a mischievous smile. “They were good little eaters on this incredibly elegant ship.”

As we started our nearly three-hour Zoom interview, she walked with her iPad to the window to show me the view from her “tiny” house in Pacific Palisades, high above the ocean.

“The neighborhood is very comforting because it’s just lovely little houses,” she said. “A couple of big ones have come crashing in.” She had come to Los Angeles for Thanksgiving with her younger brother, Kris. Usually, she can be found at the posh Fifth Avenue apartment she shares with Marshall Rose, a widowed real estate developer and philanthropist she married in 2000. He “has been facing health challenges with grace and elegance for the past few years,” she said. Ms. Bergen had difficult caretaking duties with her first husband, Louis Malle, the French director. Their marriage lasted 15 years, until Mr. Malle died in 1995 after an agonizing battle with lymphoma.

When she was single, Ms. Bergen lived in another little house in Los Angeles that was once occupied by Katharine Hepburn and, before that, by John Barrymore’s birds.

“I found fantastic paintings of men with plumes in their turbans and fantastic birds with elaborate plumage,” she said of the Barrymore aviary-turned-guesthouse. “It was like a little tiny chapel. There were stained-glass windows in the cupola. One showed he and Dolores Costello in a scene from ‘The Sea Beast.’ Nobody wanted the house. There was no garage. It was just useless. But it was heaven.”

Bruce, half-Saint Bernard and half-poodle, was by Ms. Bergen’s side. She was wearing a striped T-shirt and shoes made out of African indigo cotton by Ibu, an online group of women’s cooperatives from around the world, which features designs by her old friend, Ali MacGraw. (Ms. Bergen also sells bags and other merch online featuring her whimsical artwork, all for charity.)

I asked how she felt about the election.

“When I found out that Biden had won, I was going out of my building and I heard honking and people screaming and I said to the doorman, ‘What’s happening? Is there a parade?’ He said, ‘He won.’ And I just burst into tears. It was just such a relief. We just needed a sense of decency, a sense of kindness.” She added, for the president-elect: “May the wind be at his back because he’s going to need it.”

I noted that she will have to put away her “Free Melania” sweater.

“Yes,” she said, smiling. “That’ll have to be repurposed somehow.”

“My life is a very tiny life now,” she said, referring to coronavirus restrictions and tending Mr. Rose. “I don’t mind it, frankly. For someone in their 70s, it’s not a tragedy.” The couple have quiet dinners and watch “The West Wing” in a dark red room covered with dog paintings. “I’m an old person,” Ms. Bergen said, and then, later, stretching out her neck for me to see: “I have a wattle.”

“I would like to embrace being 74,” she said. “I mean, my hair is white up here. My Covid color, turns out, is white. I probably will leave my wattle.&quot;

Ms. Bergen, who had her eyes done during “Murphy Brown” — “because they were very hooded and people were talking” — continued, “I know I should have injections. I have deep lines along my lip.” But “I can’t take the pain.

“When I go to get my makeup done, the woman who does it says, when she is finished, ‘Now you look like Candice Bergen again.’ Because when I start, it’s like, ‘Uh, what a wreck.’ Stuff goes.”

Ms. Bergen has always been blunt about not starving herself or doing extreme procedures to preserve her looks. She declared in her second memoir “A Fine Romance,” published in 2015: “I am a champion eater. No carb is safe — no fat either.”

She told me, “I was never a good dieter,” adding brightly: “I ate an entire pumpkin pie at Thanksgiving, all by myself in my kitchen. Without the crust, but the entire filling of the pie.”

Her daughter, Chloe Malle, a writer and contributing editor at Vogue, said that Ms. Bergen’s lack of vanity is an extension of her I-don’t-give-a-damn attitude, which can be both stressful and refreshing.

“She really doesn’t care and would rather eat the cookie,” Ms. Malle said. “She has eaten mocha ice cream and Cheetos for her entire dinner. Most of quarantine, she has been strolling through Central Park with Bruce in her pajamas and the coat she got on Amazon, her hair sticking up, going into a Big Edie and Little Edie vibe.”

Ms. Malle continued: “I grew up with my friends’ dads saying ‘Oh, my God, I remember when your mom was young. She was a knockout.’ I think she had great insecurity around the fact that people have always focused on that. It can be quite a burden. There’s something freeing about her beauty not being the only thing people are focused on.”

Ms. Bergen writes perceptively in her two memoirs about the phenomenon of beauty creating its own rules of conduct. “It’s often the elephant in the room and you’re the elephant handler,” as she put it.

After her 1967 Vogue cover in her modeling days and her movie debut in “The Group” in 1966, where she played the risky role of Lakey, a lesbian — “People saw posters of me in gay bars after that,” she said, pleased — Ms. Bergen’s perfect nose spurred a flood of plastic surgeries.

“Doctors used to come up to me and say could they take a cast of my nose,’’ she said. “I said, ‘Go away.’ My nose was very important to people. I never even thought about it. It’s strange.”

When she gave birth to her daughter, she mused about whether it would be better if Chloe were not beautiful.

“Obviously, I don’t deal with it anymore,” the actress told me. When she thinks back, Ms. Bergen said, the problem is “that’s all you are to people is what you look like. No one tries to find out if there’s anyone home. It works against your own self-development, because it’s hard to find out what you think about things and what your opinions are because nobody cares. You don’t have to engage your brain for any reason. I think that’s why I went off and photographed and wrote pieces, just to get out of the line of fire.”

Ms. Bergen has seen this happen to the opposite sex as well. “You’re semi-glorified but you’re also negated. You really have to make an effort to become someone more than what your presentation is.”

She speaks highly of her famous leading men: Caine, McQueen, Connery and especially Nicholson. Early in her career, she got scathing reviews. After “The Group” came out, Pauline Kael wrote about Ms. Bergen in Life magazine that “As an actress, her only flair is in her nostrils.” Reviewing “The Adventurers,” The New York Times said that Ms. Bergen “performs as though clubbed over the head.”

But on “S.N.L.” and in the 1979 film “Starting Over,” in which she belted out songs like a cat in pain, and then in “Murphy Brown,” Ms. Bergen discovered she had comedic timing, perhaps honed as a child in her father’s holiday skits with Charlie McCarthy. Younger fans laughed at Ms. Bergen as a rabid former beauty queen in “Miss Congeniality” and as a Vogue editor in “Sex and the City.”

She recalled her first “S.N.L.” hosting gig, in 1975, as “pure, distilled terror.” (Lorne Michaels, a friend, said the expression in her eyes that night was “like Patty Hearst when the Symbionese Liberation Army rang her doorbell.” She eventually joined the show’s Five-Timers Club.)

Ms. Bergen recalled: “Belushi and Danny Aykroyd, who were best friends, were being very cute, and sort of flirtatious, kind of like young guys with an older woman. They were very dear, actually. Belushi had not yet started going to California to do drugs. They were all jealous of Lorne and resentful of his authority. I always got that from cast members. Lorne was a miracle. It was just staggering, the things they could pull off.”

Is it harder for beautiful women to be funny?

“I think men don’t like beautiful women to make fun of themselves,’’ the actress said. “They don’t like you to wear funny hats. They don’t like you to look less than a dignified, beautiful woman. I’ve noticed that. For me, being funny is my joy. Doing ‘Murphy’ was just such a gift for me.” She was very disappointed that the reboot did not catch on.

Her new movie is about three women who go to college together, fall out of touch and reunite when Alice, a Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist played by Ms. Streep, invites the other two on a crossing to London. It turns out that Alice learned about an affair that Ms. Bergen’s character, Roberta, had, which caused her rich husband to divorce her, stranding her to a life selling lingerie at a high-end department store — and then appropriated this plotline for a book.

Unlike Ms. Bergen, Roberta is pinched and bruised by grievances. At one point, Roberta wonders if men will want her given that she’s “old rotten meat.” It’s startling, more so knowing Ms. Bergen improvised the line.

In her big confrontation scene with Ms. Streep’s character on the boat, Ms. Bergen was jittery. As they sat down to shoot a scene, they received an outline from Deborah Eisenberg, the short story writer and Columbia professor (and Wallace Shawn’s longtime companion).

“They tell you what the nub of the scene is, and then you just have to flail around,” Ms. Bergen said.

She did do research. “Candy told us she actually flew to Houston to see oil rigs as preparation for her role,’’ Ms. Wiest said, adding that Ms. Bergen conjured a character who “was so poor as a child, her only pet was a snake and her single mother worked as a housekeeper. I thought, ‘Wow, Hollywood royalty does deep research!’ She dressed herself like a real Texas babe. I sat across the table from her in the film and thought, she’s doing nothing obvious and yet I’d swear she sprang from Texas dirt.”

Ms. Streep said she was surprised when Ms. Bergen, whom she did not know previously, was standoffish. “I thought, ‘She hates me.’” Then she realized that Ms. Bergen was using a “method-y” approach.

Now, she notes, “Candy is sort of like a sister I never had,’’ with traits that are shy and sly, kind and sharp, all at the same time. And then, she said, there’s that surprising, throwing-her-head-back laugh, which Ms. Bergen used to great effect in the 1971 film “Carnal Knowledge.”

Ms. Bergen had never done improv. “At her age, she doesn’t have to do any of this,’’ said her friend Diane English, the creator of “Murphy Brown.” “She has such respect for the script and the written word and she works so hard to get exactly right. This is a huge challenge for her. But she wants another challenge. It’s daunting but she totally embraced it.”

Mr. Soderbergh agreed, noting that he has seen many older actors “move bag and baggage into the third person, as though their names are in quotation marks, sort of disconnected from themselves.”

He said that with Ms. Bergen, on the other hand, “You can’t throw one past her. You better know what you’re talking about and what you’re doing.”

I told Ms. Bergen that in her climactic confrontation with Ms. Streep’s character on the boat, she could have channeled the moment in 1980 when she had her only Oscar nomination, for “Starting Over,” and lost to Ms. Streep, who won for “Kramer vs. Kramer.”

“One of the first of her 18 nominations,’’ Ms. Bergen said dryly. (It’s 21.) 

I wondered about the movie’s theme about strained female friendship. Ms. Bergen wrote in her first memoir, “Knock Wood,” that she did not have many women friends when she was younger, and that women were often “wary” of her.

“Certainly, going into parties, my task for myself was to disarm myself, to go, ‘I’ve got no weapons. I’m here. I come in friendship,’” she said. “Because the women would back way up.”

She added: “Of course, as you get older, women’s relationships become primary relationships because we know so many women are widows, so many women are single, and they become their own pod and form these groups.”

Her friends gush about her. Ali MacGraw loves the fact that Ms. Bergen — “a real American beauty with enormous class” — never wears anything that’s trying too hard and that she entertains and decorates with a sense of whimsy.

“When she lived in the fabulous former artist’s studio on Central Park South,’’ Ms. MacGraw remembered, “on one table there was a glass of milk spilled on the glass top. I don’t know how many times I tried to clean that up before I realized it was a fake.”

Ms. Bergen’s most important relationship is with her daughter. “The birth of my daughter was the greatest event in my life,’’ she said.

Some would argue, Ms. Malle said wryly, that the umbilical cord is still not severed. Ms. Bergen raised Chloe mostly on her own in Los Angeles, where she lived for the 10 years of “Murphy Brown.” After Louis Malle lost the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film for the 1987 film “Au Revoir Les Enfants,” his dislike of Los Angeles deepened and he went back to France to work.

“I was very happy being married to Louis,’’ Ms. Bergen said. “He was really a great love of my life and we had a great time together, but you’re pulled in different directions and then you have a child and they become the love of your life and that’s hard.” She added, “The distance was very hard on the marriage and then the balance of power was in question,’’ referring to her growing fame with “Murphy Brown.”

Now she is focused on her 6-month-old grandson, Artie. “He’s just the dumpling,’’ she said. “He’s just the best arrival of joy in one’s life. I’m crying. I’m just looking forward to the future with Artie.”

She asked her daughter if she could take over a dilapidated barn, one of two on the land that Chloe and her husband, Graham Albert, a financier, bought in Connecticut. “That’s all I need,” mother told daughter. “That’s where I’m going to retire.”

Now, said an amused Ms. Malle, “she has built a Gil Schafer mini-manse on the site. She said it’s the smallest project he’s ever taken on.”

I ask Ms. Bergen what she thought of Quentin Tarantino’s “Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood,” released last year.

“The feeling of it,’’ she said, “was very close.”

In the late 1960s, she and her boyfriend at the time, Terry Melcher, a record producer and the son of Doris Day, had lived in the house on Cielo Drive before Sharon Tate and Roman Polanski. It has been said that a reason Manson targeted that house was because he was angry Mr. Melcher didn’t give him a record contract.

“Terry was very stupid and he went out there to record Manson’s group singing,’’ Ms. Bergen said. “He knew it was very loaded, and one of Manson’s people came to the door once when I was at the house. Then one day, Terry just said, ‘We’re moving.’ I said, ‘When?’ He said, ‘Tomorrow.’ His mother had a house in Malibu that became David Geffen’s house where we went. Then they took the telescope off our balcony at the beach house. It was like Manson saying, ‘Don’t try to hide from me.’”

And about that famous date with Donald Trump, when she was at the University of Pennsylvania?

He was shy, quiet and introspective, one presumes?

“Yes, in fact his knowledge of philosophy goes way beyond,” she said, laughing. “We went to, I think, a steakhouse but he picked me up from school in a limousine, which was unusual, and it was a burgundy limousine and he was wearing a burgundy suit and burgundy patent leather boots. I just thought, this guy can color coordinate with the best of them. I think I was home by 9. I remember it being just very slow going and heavy lifting, it was just like pulling a sledge. And then I was home early.”

There was another renowned date in the 1970s, with Henry Kissinger, arranged by family friends. Ms. Bergen went ahead with it at the puckish urging of her counterculture boyfriend, Bert Schneider, and his pal, Abbie Hoffman, who wanted intel on the Vietnam War.

She said if it wasn’t the best date she ever had, it was “certainly the best-guarded. Some family friends invited Frank Sinatra and a date and Henry Kissinger and me for dinner. I remember, when he was late, getting a call that the Secret Service couldn’t find Beverly Hills. It was concerning. The whole dinner was just a mano-a-mano between Frank and Henry. I think Frank won.”

When I noted that Ms. Bergen had to be the only person on earth who was friends with both Nancy Reagan and Huey Newton, she laughed and agreed.

I said it was surprising Mr. Sinatra did not woo her.

“He did ask a friend of mine for my contact but it wasn’t given,’’ she said, with a prim smile.

Charlie McCarthy is now in the Smithsonian. Ms. Bergen wrote about her shock when her father left money in his will to her “older, all-powerful brother” — the dummy — and not to her. She used to talk to a shrink about their relationship, which she calls the zaniest sibling rivalry ever, but she said it was too wacky even for a therapist.

She has reconciled her feelings toward her wooden “brother” — and her father, who was a loving but emotionally distant child of Swedish immigrants. She said that she has Charlie McCarthy memorabilia on display and her daughter has windup toys and salt and pepper shakers.

“The older I get, the more fierce I am about my pride in being a ventriloquist’s daughter,’’ Ms. Bergen said. “I just think it’s the weirdest thing.”

[Putting words in her mouth? No, just a holiday round of Confirm or Deny.]

Maureen Dowd: You would have loved to work with Alfred Hitchcock.

Candice Bergen: Yes. I would have been a Hitchcock blonde. I did have lunch with Grace and Prince Rainier at David Niven Jr.’s house in the South of France. David and I had grown up together. The Rainiers came for lunch, and we talked about this and that. It was fantastic. She was lovely. And afterward, an interviewer said, “Who will be the next Grace Kelly?” She said, “Perhaps it’s Candice Bergen.”

You used to figure out who you wanted to date with the help of a shoe code.

If you wanted to place really high on the board, Italian loafers. Any kind of loafer basically got you in the door, or sneakers. But no cordovans, no wingtips.

You’ve read Matthew McConaughey’s memoir twice.

All right, all right, all right. No.

You love listening to the podcast “Call Her Daddy.”

Here’s the thing. I’ve never listened to a podcast because I don’t know how. I know there’s a podcast app someplace, so I’m going to do that. I have to find my earphones first.

You have James Bond’s old couch.

Yes, Roger Moore’s — because I once bought his house. My daughter has it.

You love practical jokes but it’s harder in the woke culture.

I think you have to pick your subjects more carefully. It’s a very structured moment in time.

Your biggest regret is missing the famous Diana and Charles dinner-dance at the Reagan White House.

I was pregnant with Chloe and she was two and a half weeks late. Mrs. Reagan was calling me and she said, “Candy, what’s happening? We’d love you to be there.” I couldn’t go. Chloe was born the day before.

You miss sitting on the bed and watching bad TV and smoking pot with Sue Mengers.

Well, I do. That was fun.

You would like to die the way the Maasai do, where they just lay you out in the savanna as a buffet for the animals.

Exactly.





No.32 article:
As Refugees, Their Options Were Limited. Others Saw a Profit.

Even after decades in Thailand, Kayan women who fled Myanmar make their living from their traditional neck rings. But that’s changing.

HUAY PU KENG, Thailand — In front of nearly every bamboo home in the village of Huay Pu Keng are stalls selling trinkets related to the neck rings that women from the Kayan ethnic group traditionally wear.

There are cheater versions of the brass coils, with helpful hinges for easy application. There are special pillows for sleeping with the rings, which compress the clavicle and create the illusion of an unnaturally elongated neck.

There are wooden carvings of the women with their neck decorations and something called “long-neck wine,” although, confusingly, the bottles are squat and round.

The entire economy of Huay Pu Keng and other Kayan villages, from local officials to tourism profiteers, depends on the metal adornments clamped around the necks of its women.

“For older women, we wear the rings for tradition,” said Mu Na, 58, who sells trinkets in another tourist village. “For younger girls, they wear the rings for tourism.”

The Kayan are a small ethnic minority that fled civil war in eastern Myanmar in the 1980s. When they arrived in Thailand, Thai officials, in concert with a Myanmar ethnic militia that operated in the border area, saw an opportunity: Instead of putting the Kayan in special camps that had been built for the hundreds of thousands of other refugees who were also escaping armed conflict in Myanmar at the time, they would be put in newly built villages designed for maximum tourist visibility.

Once they were set up in the villages, the women were given salaries of up to $200 a month by tour companies. Thais — from boat operators to trinket makers — profited.

Critics have called the villages “ethnic theme parks,” with the Kayan on display as human tourist attractions. Yet for the women and their families, the visitors guaranteed a steady income, even if it meant continuing a tradition that might otherwise have disappeared by the 21st century.

The coronavirus has complicated the situation. Thailand has barred most foreigners to prevent the spread of the virus, and so few tourists now visit this remote corner of the country. And the fate of the Kayan yet again raises uncomfortable questions about cultural exploitation, economic agency and the challenging reality of life as a refugee.

Mu Tae sat at her trinket stall, her head floating above 18 metal loops that made the distance between her chin and her shoulders look impossibly long.

“The government told us to preserve our culture, and we did, but no one is here to see it,” she said.

While the women and their families have profited from visitors to the villages, the neck rings are increasingly a legacy from another century. Even before the pandemic, many women had taken them off. Ms. Mu Tae said she will begin fastening the metal around her daughter’s neck when she reaches 5 years old, but she isn’t sure if the girl will want to continue the Kayan custom into adulthood.

Of the 105 women in Huay Pu Keng, only 12 still wear the neck coils.

It’s not clear why the Kayan, also known as the Padaung, began wearing the coils back in the forests of Myanmar, where they are from. Tourist guides say, with a flourish, that the metal rings were a defense mechanism against tigers who went for the neck. The Kayan seem skeptical of this explanation.

“It’s not pretty without the rings,” said Ma Tae, 63, who wears 23 rings on her neck, as well as leg coils. “It’s what we have always done.”

For years, many Kayan lacked official documentation to leave their villages, and they had no hope of emigrating to another country because they were not in the refugee camps.

Those that could venture out, with proper papers, were often in for a shock.

“When I went to school in town, everyone stared so I was embarrassed by the rings,” said Ma Prang, 22, who removed 20 coils four years ago. “I want to be a doctor and I think it will be hard to do that job with rings on.”

About a dozen years ago, though, the Thai government began allowing Kayan in the villages to transfer to the refugee camps so that they could apply for resettlement in a third country. Since then, scores of Kayan have started new lives in Finland, New Zealand and the United States, among other countries. None of the women continue to wear their rings.

Unlike the Kayan in the refugee camps, some residents of the tourist villages have received full Thai citizenship or cards that allow them free movement in the country. But even after decades in the country, other Kayan have not been issued such paperwork, leaving them at the mercy of Thai officialdom.

“I’m not sure why I don’t have an I.D. card,” said Ma Nye, 33, who lives in Huay Sua Tao, the Kayan village most visited by tourists. “My daughters were born in Thailand, but they don’t have cards, either.”

Yothin Thubthimthong, the director of the Tourism Authority of Thailand in Mae Hong Son Province, where the Kayan villages are, said that life in immigration limbo in one of the tourist villages was preferable to living in a refugee camp.

“Though they are not Thais, I believe it’s better than living in the camp with tens of thousands of people,” he said.

In Huay Pu Keng, the Kayan live alongside the Kayaw, another ethnic group known for creating large holes in women’s earlobes. Although both the Kayan and the Kayaw mostly come from Kayah, a state in eastern Myanmar that borders Thailand, they speak different languages and have different customs. They would not have lived together back in Myanmar.

Even before the coronavirus, tourism was declining in Huay Pu Keng and other Kayan villages along the border with Myanmar. Over the past decade, some Kayan families, both from the border villages and Myanmar, have been allowed to relocate to Thai cities, after tour operators recruited them to live in new communities that are more convenient for tourists to visit.

“In Myanmar, I could not work in the city because of my rings,” said Ma Hao, 34, who was hired from Myanmar seven years ago to wear her 28 coils at one of these tourist attractions near the northern city of Chiang Mai. “Here, I could make money just by living.”

But since the coronavirus travel lockdown, the Thai businessmen who used to employ Kayan women like Ms. Ma Hao have stopped paying. Now, she says, she is stuck in Thailand without work, and without enough money to return to Myanmar.

The Long Neck Hill Tribe Village is a collection of bamboo shacks with intermittent electricity constructed by a retired police officer on the outskirts of Chiang Mai. About 50 tourists a day, many of them from China, used to come and pay $15 to see Kayan women and their rings, as well as other ethnic groups, like the Lahu, Akha and Lisu.

These days, the tourist attraction gets only a few visitors. And with no salaries offered, most of the workers have left.

Mu Nan, 22, has lived with her parents at Long Neck Hill Tribe Village for five years. Her mother, Mu Bar, 38, wears 25 rings and is one of the most photographed women in the community. Ms. Mu Nan wears none.

Unlike her parents or her brother, who is a trash collector, Ms. Mu Nan received her Thai citizenship this year, a process that took three years of filling out forms and battling bureaucracy. She is now studying at Chiang Mai University.

“I never got any education at all,” said Ms. Mu Bar, adjusting the cloth under her coils that prevents chafing. “My daughter’s life will be different from mine,” she added. “She can do anything she wants.”





No.33 article:
Talking About Race Made Two N.F.L. Teammates Partners in Activism

The friendship between Ricardo Allen, an undersized cornerback, and Matt Ryan, the heralded quarterback, has shaped the Falcons’ activism against racial injustice.

Six years later, the photo remains one of Ricardo Allen’s favorites. Standing in a Dick’s Sporting Goods, the Atlanta Falcons defensive back is smiling ear to ear, having just been promoted to the active roster after spending most of his rookie season on the practice squad. Matt Ryan, the team’s star quarterback, is walking into the frame to shake his hand.

“Now it’s time to be making some of those big checks,” Allen remembers Ryan saying, referring to the sixfold bump in pay he would receive. “And with them comes a greater level of responsibility.”

Allen, 28, cherishes the picture because it captured the elation he felt after overcoming being cut in training camp — a scene captured on the HBO reality show, “Hard Knocks” — and his unlikely relationship with Ryan, 35, that has now guided both men through this tumultuous year that has rocked them both, personally and professionally.

As two of the longest tenured Falcons, team captains and leaders of the offense and defense, players who study the game obsessively and share notes, they have leaned on each other as the team, and its social justice committee that they lead, sought ways to respond to the social upheaval roiling the country, a journey The New York Times is following this season.

Allen and Ryan don’t finish each other’s sentences or hang out often at backyard barbecues. Rather, their friendship was forged in the training facility, where their lockers face each other’s, and it has deepened to the point that when Allen’s brother was killed this summer, Ryan was among the first people to reach out.

“There’s a level of depth that comes with time,” Ryan said of their relationship. “You just feel for the guy, your friend and what he’s going through, losing a loved one.”

The team’s miserable start, in which the Falcons (4-7) lost their first five games and fired Coach Dan Quinn and General Manager Thomas Dimitroff, could change Allen and Ryan’s future as teammates, a concern that looms as the team continues social justice initiatives they’d planned as part of a wave of renewed N.F.L. activism.

Like it or not, the losing has bled into the Falcons’ off-field activism, and the committee’s plans for 2020 were winnowed down to primarily focus on mentoring high school football players on election rights via videoconference calls. Their work resulted in students from Atlanta’s Booker T. Washington High School and Savannah’s Groves High School volunteering at polling stations during November’s general election, with plans to return for Georgia’s runoff election on Jan. 5. Personally, Allen plans to ramp up his work with Black teens in detention centers and Ryan has raised nearly $2 million to help underprivileged youth in Atlanta.

Their efforts reflect the different paths they took to the N.F.L. Ryan attended private schools, was drafted third over all in 2008 and has become the face of the franchise in Atlanta. It was only after George Floyd’s killing at the hands of Minneapolis police in May that Ryan felt compelled to come off the sidelines on the issue of racial inequity.

“When you haven’t gone through something yourself it’s harder to be able to relate to it,” Ryan said to explain not getting involved earlier. “But turning a blind eye is no longer acceptable to me. It took time and I wish I had done it faster, but we’re in a position where I hope we’re starting to move things in the right direction.”

Allen’s involvement is driven more by his lived experience. The first member of his family to attend college, the diminutive cornerback (he’s 5-foot-9) earned a roster spot off the practice squad, a kind of N.F.L. Horatio Alger story.

Allen was raised by a single mother, Brenda Green, who worked two jobs, and an older brother, Adrian, whom he idolized. Allen didn’t play youth football because money was tight. He later joined the football team at Mainland High School in Daytona Beach, Fla., where he befriended Michael Squillacote, one of a handful of white teammates. Their relationship changed the trajectory of Ricardo’s life.

He spent weeks at a time at the Squillacote’s home, which sits on 10 acres in a largely white area north of Daytona Beach, about 10 miles and a world away from where Allen lived. The two teenagers bonded over video games, talking football and working out. In return for their hospitality, Michael’s parents, Steve and Betsy Squillacote, expected Allen to complete the same chores as their two sons and carry at least a 3.0 grade point average. Allen and Michael worked at Steve’s home-building company.

“He just needed a push in the right direction,” Betsy Squillacote said.

The Squillacotes’s house, he said, was something “you only saw in the movies and on TV.” He appreciated that for the first time, he had a father figure in his life. He also fended off scrutiny from his Black friends.

“I’ve had people come up to me, and say, ‘hey man, what are you doing hanging with that family?’” Allen said. “I said, ‘what are you talking about? They helped raise me.’”

The Squillacotes’s influence helped ease Allen’s move to Purdue University, in predominantly white West Lafayette, Ind., to play college football. But it still came as a shock to him when campus police stopped him one night on campus and asked to search his backpack for no apparent reason. Later, Allen came to feel that he had been racially profiled, an uncomfortable reminder that even his popularity as a football player did not exempt him from being targeted because of the color of his skin.

After Allen was promoted to the active roster late in 2014, he and Ryan’s relationship blossomed. They faced each other in practice and Ryan taught Allen how to read offenses and how to navigate the off-field responsibilities of being a professional football player. Allen, a favorite of Quinn’s, rose to being a full-time starter at safety in 2015 and founder of the team’s social justice committee in 2017.

“I’ve always had a tremendous amount of respect for him as a player but as he’s grown into a more veteran player, his voice is heard more on different topics,” Ryan said of Allen. “He’s a confidante for me.”

During their seven years together, Allen and Ryan have obsessed over the minutiae of their sport. Before every game, Ryan stops at Allen’s locker for a pregame pep talk. After practice, they chat about parenthood in the hot or cold tub. In the off-season, the pair organizes workouts in Florida for veteran players. Only occasionally did they discuss tougher topics like race relations and police brutality.

In the past three years, though, Allen and other Black teammates began speaking out publicly against police brutality. Few white teammates joined them, including Ryan, who said he didn’t have the vocabulary to speak up and said his support “was always in the background.”

That changed for Ryan this summer when the Falcons held virtual meetings about Floyd’s killing. Hearing players, including Allen, describe instances of being racially profiled by police, Ryan recognized he could no longer sit idly by.

“For our team, it was the third or fourth time talking about the same things,” Ryan said. “If we continue to take the same approach, and guys continue to do what we’ve been doing, that’s not going to work.”

In early June, after ESPN wrote about Allen’s 2018 trip to Selma, Ala., to visit the site of 1965 Civil Rights march, Ryan called and, in what he said was an uncomfortable conversation, asked how he should speak out because he was unfamiliar with talking about issues of race.

Allen told him just to be himself and speak from the heart.

“I’m from the ‘hood and live in the country club now, but I can see how people don’t understand what it’s like in the ‘hood because they’ve never seen it,” Allen said of Ryan’s discomfort.

“Matt and a bunch of other white teammates hit me up, and the main thing they tried to tell me was they don’t know the perfect thing to say,” Allen recalled.

Ryan’s community efforts, to that point, focused on supporting children’s hospitals and Boys and Girls clubs. Growing up outside of Philadelphia, Ryan had classmates and teammates of various backgrounds. But he did not have to confront the harsh realities that Black teammates like Allen routinely did.

“I feel fortunate to come from where I come from,” Ryan said. “Playing sports my whole life, I’ve also come to appreciate it even more because knowing other situations that guys have gone through. There’s a lot of things they’ve had to overcome that I didn’t.”

Ryan joined the Falcons’ social justice committee and decided to use his popularity in Atlanta to raise more than $1.3 million, including $500,000 of his own money, to support after-school programs in underprivileged neighborhoods in Atlanta to give Black children a safe place to exercise and learn from mentors.

To drum up donations, Ryan held a radio-a-thon and invited Allen, who talked about growing up in Florida. When Ryan formed a committee to help him disperse those funds, Allen suggested including influential people in Atlanta’s Black community, including the rapper Killer Mike, born Michael Render, who is one-half of the hip-hop duo Run the Jewels.

Allen has been “one of the first guys I asked to help, and he’s been one of the first guys to give advice on things going on from the jump,” Ryan said.

Then the violence that surrounded Allen growing up hit home. In late July, Adrian Allen, who was 31, was stabbed to death in a fight in Daytona Beach. Adrian had been in and out of jail over the years, Ricardo said, cleaning up his life for a while, then falling backward.

Ryan was one of the few Falcons told about Adrian Allen’s death, and he immediately called to offer his sympathy, something that reminded Ricardo of how far they’d come as friends.

“You don’t really have very many good friends in the N.F.L. because players come and go and they’re focused on their lives,” Allen said. Ryan’s call “says that I’m not just a football player to him, that he cares for me outside the walls of what we do for a business.”





No.34 article:
‘They’re Playing With Our Lives’: What Happens Next for DACA’s ‘Dreamers’

A judge ordered the Trump administration to reinstate protections for young immigrants brought to the country as children. But their status remains precarious.

LOS ANGELES — Despite being a college graduate, Maria Fernanda Madrigal Delgado had no choice in 2011 but to clean buildings and flip burgers in fast-food joints for cash because she was not eligible to work in the United States. She had grown up undocumented in Southern California after being brought to the country as a child from Costa Rica.

In 2012, after President Barack Obama unveiled Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation and allowed them to work, she got a job as a legal assistant. In May, at 31, she will graduate from law school in San Diego.

Yet almost from the moment DACA was created, it has been dogged by legal challenges, which have kept Ms. Madrigal and other so-called Dreamers on tenterhooks. Soon after President Trump took office in 2017, he canceled the program. The Supreme Court ruled in June that he had done so improperly, but the administration erected new roadblocks. “It’s literally like we’re in a Ping-Pong game,” Ms. Madrigal said. “They’re playing with our lives.”

On Friday, a federal judge ruled in favor of DACA recipients, ordering full reinstatement of the program and opening it to new applicants. But Ms. Madrigal isn’t celebrating. “I am aware this is not the end,” she said. “There can be another challenge. We need to get something that is more permanent.”

For undocumented young adults who were brought to the United States as children, Friday’s court ruling was a milestone — an opportunity to win security after years of whiplash, as well as facing the possibility of removal.

Yet their future, most realize, ultimately remains uncertain. For years, DACA has been a policy roller coaster, with court rulings and administration actions every few months alternately canceling, reinstating and partially rolling back the program.

As President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. takes office, he faces enormous pressure to do what so many of his predecessors could not: push through a legislative solution that once and for all addresses the fate of the Dreamers.

“DACA recipients cannot feel safe yet, for a variety of reasons,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, a professor of immigration law at Cornell Law School. “The only true solution for DACA recipients is legislation offering them a path to legalization. Given the polarization in Congress, that seems difficult to achieve.”

In his decision on Friday, Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn reversed a memorandum issued in the summer by Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of homeland security, that restricted the program’s protections to people who had already enrolled. As many as 300,000 new applicants now can participate, if the judge’s ruling stands.

The Department of Homeland Security attacked the decision on Saturday, saying it would abide by the ruling while it worked with the Justice Department on an appeal.

“D.H.S. wholly disagrees with this decision by yet another activist judge acting from his own policy preferences,” Chase Jennings, a department spokesman, said, describing the judge’s ruling as “clearly not sound law or logic.”

Unless Congress acts for the Dreamers, DACA is likely to be entangled in litigation and legal doubt for a while.

“Unfortunately, Dreamers may have to live with some level of doubt and anxiety for the foreseeable future,” said Michael Kagan, an immigration scholar at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.

He added: “To be clear: The situation for Dreamers is much more optimistic today than it was six months ago. DACA survived Trump. And the incoming president is a big supporter. The question is how far Biden will be able to go to protect them, and to make the protection permanent.”

In a separate challenge, a federal judge in Texas could rule later this month in favor of conservative state officials who are hoping to dismantle DACA. And if Mr. Biden issues a new executive order after he becomes president, Texas or other conservative states might sue to block it.

Moreover, the Supreme Court did not conclude that the president had no authority to terminate DACA, only that Mr. Trump had failed to follow the appropriate procedure in doing so.

Michael A. Olivas, a DACA scholar, said he believed the program would survive, at least for several more years. “The Texas challenge is lurking, but the program is safe,” said Mr. Olivas, an emeritus professor of immigration law at the University of Houston. “Having already gone to the Supreme Court, it is continuing. It would take several years to be rescinded.”

He added, “In that time, current recipients would have been renewing every two years, and hundreds of thousands might have enrolled,” creating an even larger pool of beneficiaries.

The Obama administration introduced DACA after Republicans in Congress blocked the Dream Act, a bill that would have given the Dreamers solid legal protections and a path to citizenship.

Mr. Obama viewed DACA as a stopgap measure that would be in place only until lawmakers acted. But that has not happened. In 2013, the Senate passed a comprehensive immigration bill with bipartisan support, and with the encouragement of Mr. Obama.

But the Republican-controlled House refused to take up the measure, even though it would have pumped billions into border security, because it provided a path to citizenship for the Dreamers and other undocumented immigrants.

Further congressional efforts to address the issue stalled during the Trump presidency as the administration demanded restrictive measures and Mr. Trump pursued his wide-ranging curbs on immigration.

One bipartisan deal brokered by Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, collapsed after Mr. Trump ranted about immigrants from “shithole countries.”

Mr. Biden has vowed to reverse Mr. Trump’s harsh immigration policies and to embrace the DACA program until he can muscle a comprehensive immigration plan through Congress.

But immigration is not one of the president-elect’s top priorities, which include dealing with the pandemic, the economy, climate change and unifying the country.

Mr. Biden will be under immense pressure from immigrant rights groups to move beyond executive actions like DACA to permanently secure protections for the Dreamers and other undocumented immigrants.

That is likely to be more difficult given the Democratic Party’s razor-thin control of the House and a Senate that is almost evenly divided. The outcome of two Senate runoffs in Georgia early next month will determine whether Mr. Biden’s party controls the agenda in that chamber.

Either way, any solution to the country’s immigration problems will have to be bipartisan at a time when partisanship is bitterly dividing lawmakers and the country. Mr. Trump may continue to be a factor even after he leaves the White House.

Since entering politics, he has fired up Republican voters by using xenophobic rhetoric and stoking fear of immigrants. That will continue to resonate in Republican districts, giving the party’s lawmakers pause before they embrace a more lenient approach toward immigrants.

But DACA recipients are among the most sympathetic undocumented immigrants, typically having been brought to the United States as small children. Many Republicans and Democrats have said Dreamers should not be punished for growing up in America, often as upstanding members of their communities.

The Trump administration shut down the program in 2017 just before Arlette Morales of York, Pa., turned 15, when she would have qualified to enroll.

“I had lost all hope; I was devastated,” said Ms. Morales, 18, who was brought to the United States from Mexico when she was 2 years old.

Immediately after the Supreme Court ruled in June, she prepared and submitted a DACA application, only to have it returned after the Trump administration refused to accept new applicants. Again, she felt let down.

On Saturday, her hope rekindled, Ms. Morales said that she would resubmit the application first thing on Monday.

“I’m applying to colleges right now, and with DACA, I can achieve my dream of a career in criminal justice,” she said, noting that the protections under the program would also make her eligible for some scholarships and for in-state tuition in Pennsylvania.

But she, and other Dreamers, share hopes for a permanent fix. Even those who are eligible for the program must reapply every two years, creating new uncertainty.

“It’s been frustrating to live in limbo and in two-year increments,” said Denia Perez, a New York lawyer who was brought to the United States from Mexico when she was 11 months old.

In 2018, she became the first DACA recipient to be admitted to the Connecticut bar. For her, Friday’s decision came as a huge relief.

“But it’s not enough,” she said. “We need something bolder and more permanent — not just a work permit, but a pathway to citizenship.”

Still, for some young immigrants, Friday’s court decision was too little, too late.

After Mr. Trump’s election, Mariela Gutierrez, a DACA recipient from Los Angeles, felt increasingly pessimistic about her prospects in the United States despite having a university education and good career prospects.

“I was tired of living as a second-class citizen, two years at a time, hoping DACA would not be eliminated,” said Ms. Gutierrez, who was brought across the border as a toddler.

In 2019, she decided to apply for permanent residency in Canada, winning approval in a matter of months. She moved earlier this year to Toronto, where she is pursuing a law degree.

“Moving to Canada was difficult, because my whole life was in Los Angeles — my family and my friends,” she said, “but the decision made sense.”





No.35 article:
How Risky Are Indoor Sports This Winter?

Parents are agonizing over whether to enroll their kids in organized indoor sports.

Dr. Susannah Briskin plans to let her 15-year-old daughter play indoor basketball under the following conditions: No locker rooms. Masking and distancing rules must be strictly followed. And when she gets home, the teenager immediately showers and puts her clothes in the wash.

As a co-author of the Covid-19 interim guidelines on youth sports, released by the American Academy of Pediatrics, Dr. Briskin has thought deeply about the safety of indoor sports during the pandemic. For her own kids, the benefits of exercise and seeing friends outweigh the Covid-19 risks, provided the right precautions are in place.

But not all parents feel that way. Sebastian Andion, a team manager for his 11-year-old son’s soccer team in Montgomery County, Md., is one of more than 300 parents who filled out a survey saying they weren’t comfortable moving soccer indoors for the winter season. The ventilation systems at the local indoor gyms didn’t give him confidence and enclosed areas just felt too risky, he said.

As the weather cools and youth sports move increasingly indoors, many parents are grappling with new questions about safety. With daily coronavirus cases in the United States averaging over 150,000 in the past week, this has a new urgency. .

Experts agree that the probability of coronavirus transmission is lower outside, where wind disperses viral particles. Less clear are the risks in large gyms, indoor arenas and other indoor spaces.

While guidelines from both the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Academy of Pediatrics say the risk of transmission is greater indoors, neither has taken a hard position on indoor sports, though Dr. Briskin said the academy analyzes new data and research every 30 days to determine if any new findings should guide its recommendations.

Recent outbreaks linked to indoor hockey in New England could serve as a precautionary tale. In Massachusetts, all ice hockey and ice skating rinks were ordered to close in October, following an outbreak of nearly 110 coronavirus cases (they have since reopened with stricter rules). This came after a similar move by New Hampshire last month, after 158 positive cases over a two-month period were linked to the sport.

It’s unclear whether the virus was transmitted during the game itself or on the sidelines, locker rooms or related social gatherings, said Dr. Briskin, who is also a pediatric sports medicine specialist at Rainbow Babies &amp; Children’s Hospital in Cleveland.

So much depends on the sport itself. Close contact and physical exertion put hockey and basketball in a higher risk category, but masks during practice and games can provide some protection. It’s easier to distance in swim lanes, but you can’t mask in the water.

So what should parents keep in mind as they’re weighing these decisions?

Parents should consider multiple factors, including the facility’s size and ventilation (big and well ventilated is best), the amount of physical contact in the sport and whether players are required — or able — to wear masks, said Dr. Susan Huang, medical director for epidemiology and infection prevention at the University of California, Irvine School of Medicine.

“The mask, the hand hygiene, the distance,” Dr. Huang said. That is “the trio that you really have to think about.”

Whether to mask during play is often up to the teams. In some sports, it’s difficult. On the balance beam or uneven bars in gymnastics, for example, masks can slip and impair visibility, Dr. Briskin said.

But whenever possible, as much as possible, kids should wear masks when playing indoors, Dr. Huang said.

“That mask,” she said, “is one of the most protective things you can do. And children are very, very adaptable.” While masks are not required for her 13-year-old son’s cross-country team, he wears a special running mask whenever he’s near other runners.

Parents should be sure that masks for sports fit snugly, feel comfortable and, importantly, have multiple layers, said Mark Cameron, an associate professor at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine and an emerging infectious disease researcher.

“With exercise, you’re exhaling a lot of moisture, and a single-layer mask of any type will soon get damp and saturate,” Dr. Cameron said. “At that point, it’s not trapping the virus anymore.”

Beware single-layer bandannas or lightweight neck gaiters, and avoid anything with a vent or a valve, which protects only the wearer.

Dr. Peter Chin-Hong, a professor of medicine and infectious disease specialist at the University of California, San Francisco, advises against the N95 mask for exercise and said, “It’s suffocating, it’s tough to wear for long periods of time, and it smells weird.”

Whatever you use, have a couple extra available for when they get wet from breathing or sweat. Travis Woodruff, a coach for the Potomac Soccer Association in Potomac, Md., said that at first, his soccer players complained about masking during practice, but they’ve learned to adapt.

“Masks are part of our uniforms now, just like shin guards. They put it on and they’re ready to play.”

Coaches and trainers are getting creative about adapting practice to maximize safety. At the Sender One Climbing facility in Santa Ana, Calif., where Dr. Huang’s 16-year-old daughter is a competitive climber, all athletes are now required to use liquid climbing chalk mixed with at least 70 percent ethanol, in an effort to keep hands — and handholds — virus-free. Masks are mandated, temperatures are checked at the door and arrows on the floor keep foot traffic moving in one direction.

Since the Potomac Soccer Association canceled all indoor play because of coronavirus concerns, Woodruff and Andion are committed to training their players outdoors all winter, weather permitting, and they’re both strict about enforcing safety measures. Woodruff uses cones to set up a personal distancing grid during water breaks, and he films every soccer practice to cut back on the number of parents attending. Andion sets up socially distanced camping chairs for the kids, which he wipes down with Lysol between use.

Parents should ask if shared equipment, like balls and mats, are being regularly cleaned, as they’re a potential source of contamination, said Dr. Christine Salvatore, chief of pediatric infectious diseases at NewYork-Presbyterian Komansky Children’s Hospital. “Use your own towels, your own water bottles and don’t share,” she said.

One of the greatest dangers, Dr. Huang said, might be snacks and water breaks.

She suggested removing food tables from training altogether, so team members are never tempted to congregate. Consider individual energy bars that are easy for players to eat while distancing.

The C.D.C. guidelines state that the risk goes up with exposure to another team, with travel for away games especially dangerous.

It was a mask mandate, along with widely available hand sanitizer and strict social distancing rules, that helped Dr. Huang feel comfortable sending her daughter back to her climbing gym when it reopened.

But there was another critical factor: She needed assurance that her daughter would be personally responsible for her own safety. So the two sat down and played out different scenarios. For example: If your closest friend is standing two feet from you and not wearing a mask, what do you say? Do you feel comfortable saying something?

In this regard, age plays an important role. “If they’re really little, the onus is on the team and the coach,” she said. “As they get older, choice becomes a part of the equation.”

A recent survey by the Aspen Institute found that parents said their children have played sports an average of six and a half hours less per week during the pandemic. Only about half expected their kids to resume their pre-pandemic sports at the same level when restrictions are lifted.

When weighing the risks of opting out of sports, parents should consider what kids might lose: physical fitness and skill development, but also stress relief and social connection, Dr. Briskin said. In her own practice, she’s seen more stress fractures and overuse injuries from kids returning to teams after stay-at-home orders were lifted. The reason could be a loss of flexibility and strength or a lack of impact activity during quarantine, followed by a sudden return to practice.

However, she said, the social component of sports “may help them bridge over the isolation they may be experiencing during the pandemic.”

Still, if you’re doing a close-contact indoor sport, and you have someone in your life who is immunocompromised or otherwise high-risk, “the risk easily crosses the unacceptable barrier,” Dr. Huang said.

Her own kids, for example, are not seeing their grandparents, other than in Zoom calls and occasional waves from a distance. This is a significant change for the family, who recently moved across the country to be closer to the grandparents and saw them nearly every week before the pandemic.

“I won’t take that risk, because it’s just not worth it. Once they incur risk through sports or school, they incur it for the family.”





No.36 article:
August Wilson, American Bard

IN THE WOODS of Barnesville, Ga., two Black men are running, barely visible in the dusk. There are crickets chirping, dogs barking in the distance and, more immediately, the urgent pants of their breath. This seems to be a familiar horror, but the men aren’t being chased; they’re heading toward a tent. Inside, Ma Rainey — played by Viola Davis, her lips painted burgundy, eyelids smoked with black, cheeks stained merlot — beckons the audience in a royal blue dress. “Daddy, daddy, please come home to me,” she sings, shimmying in the heat.

“Anytime you see two Black people running in the South, you think the Klan’s somewhere, but, no, they’re not running from something. They’re running to something — to this woman whose voice is telling their story,” says George C. Wolfe, the director of “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom,” the Netflix film version of August Wilson’s beloved play, which debuts this month. The scene feels appropriate for the opening of a Wilson adaptation: One of the most acclaimed Black playwrights in America, he spent more than three decades telling the story of Black America with pride and verve, with language that beckoned like Ma’s voice in that tent.

The play, first produced in 1984 at Yale Repertory Theater in New Haven, Conn., is a fictionalized account of a famous blues singer, Gertrude (Ma) Rainey, who is in Chicago with her band in the 1920s to record a few songs. Ma’s musicians rehearse in a back room, or at least talk about rehearsing: There’s the sensible Cutler (played in the film by Colman Domingo), the laggard Slow Drag (Michael Potts), the thoughtful Toledo (Glynn Turman) and Levee (Chadwick Boseman, who died in August, in his final film role), a young and impetuous trumpet player with an idea for what a new sound might be. Ma finds herself at odds with Levee, as she does with her controlling white agent and the white studio owner, both of whom she knows are exploiting her. That’s the conflict, but much of the play’s pleasure is its dialogue: the characters gabbing, joking and arguing. Accordingly, the pith of the show is Ma’s voice — not just her husky murmur but the sound of a Black artist singing her story to and for her community. “White folks don’t understand about the blues. They hear it come out, but they don’t know how it got there,” Ma says in the play. “They don’t understand that’s life’s way of talking.”

While worthy on its own, the play is just one-tenth of the monumental project that defined Wilson’s career. With “Jitney,” a story about a group of ’70s-era cabdrivers that he wrote in 1979, he began his Pittsburgh Cycle (a.k.a., the American Century Cycle): a decalogue about Black life, one for each decade of the 20th century, all — except for “Ma Rainey” — set in his Pennsylvania hometown, where he was born in 1945. He completed the plays out of chronological order, for he didn’t initially set out to create a series, but nonetheless found a story and characters to represent each decade. And he wrote right up to the end: In 2005, the year of his death from cancer at the age of 60, he finished the last one, “Radio Golf,” about white encroachment and local politics in the 1990s. In addition to these 10 dramas, he wrote six others, but it was the Cycle that solidified his legacy as one of the country’s most important playwrights, an essential figure in not just Black theater but the American canon as a whole; two weeks after his death, Broadway’s Virginia Theater was renamed in his honor.

That’s because, during his life, Wilson had transformed the American stage, which until he arrived had been largely imagined as the nearly exclusive realm of white male writers such as Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams and Eugene O’Neill, all of whom explored the limitations and failures of the American dream. But where their domestic dramas concern themselves with a strictly class-based, Gatsby-influenced version of bootstrapism, Wilson’s plays offer a more complex vision of that same dream: one that reflects the challenges of social mobility and its unique racial limitations. Wilson recognizes that the American dream is not, and could never be, the dream of Black Americans, each generation of whom lives with the injuries this country has dealt them. In that way, he introduced a frank, original view of the nation onto the stage — one that was also percolating in literature, visual arts and activism at the end of the last century — via a mythology that began in the early 1900s, with slavery fresh in the minds of his characters, and ended in the 1990s, when Black neighborhoods were trying to redefine themselves under the threat of gentrification.

In cataloging everyday Black lives, he moved theater beyond stereotypes or two-dimensional sketches of Blackness positioned from the purview of whiteness. His characters collide with the expectations of white America, but they also collide with one another, in itself radically humanizing — to have ordinary Black characters with different views and dispositions, as opposed to sharing a monolithic experience — in an era when few such stories found their way to Broadway. But Wilson also bestowed Black audiences with a different gift: a reconsideration of time, measured in and by the lives of the African-Americans living it. He was chronicling not just a century but a past and future of a people, represented by his characters’ memories, griefs, hopes, thoughts and dreams. And he welcomed Black playwrights, directors, actors and producers to both follow and diverge from that template.

Chief among them, perhaps, is the 65-year-old actor Denzel Washington, a producer of the new “Ma Rainey” film and one of the playwright’s leading advocates. In 2010, Washington won a Tony Award for his portrayal of the protagonist, a 1950s sanitation worker named Troy Maxson, in the Broadway revival of Wilson’s most lauded work, “Fences” (1985). In 2014, the Wilson estate, led by the playwright’s widow, Constanza Romero, now 62, approached the actor about adapting the entire Pittsburgh Cycle to film, beginning with the 2016 film version of “Fences,” which Washington directed, produced and starred in opposite Davis, who won an Oscar for her role as Maxson’s beleaguered wife, Rose.

Washington sees his responsibility as both Hollywood connector and Wilson custodian. He convinced Wolfe, 66, the renowned theater director, to helm the new film; and then worked with Romero to hire his friend Samuel L. Jackson and his son, John David Washington, to appear in the next Wilson film, based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning “The Piano Lesson” (1987), a 1930s saga about ghosts and a family heirloom that will be overseen by Barry Jenkins. For the rest of the Cycle, which will be shot out of order over the following years, directors and actors such as Ryan Coogler, Ava DuVernay and Laurence Fishburne are all “circling,” Washington says. Over the phone this fall, he compared this undertaking to a relay race, passing on the baton in hopes of winning new audiences for the classics that Wilson left behind. “Lord knows he couldn’t take them with him,” Washington says. “And thank God he did leave them. Now they’ve left them in my hands, and I put them in other people’s hands.”

DAVIS, 55, STILL remembers an early encounter with the character Ma Rainey: She was a theater student at Rhode Island College in the 1980s, when one night she saw the stage and television actress Barbara Meek in a local production. “The thing that blew me away was how unapologetic she was — without screaming, without yelling, without doing any of that — just navigating her worth,” Davis recalls. “I have never seen that level of agency and autonomy.”

Ma is a standout role even in the context of Wilson’s works, which are populated with confident Black characters who either seek or declare their power within a system that would deny them: who try to get promoted at work, who try to open record shops and restaurants, who supplicate themselves before white peers to get ahead, who fight back against those same white peers or even step over other Black people to advance. Still, Ma stands out for another reason, too: Wilson’s plays are often ruled by men, whether they’re scrapping for cash or hanging in shops. And Ma is not just a Black woman at the center of her story, but a queer one, an identity otherwise absent in Wilson’s oeuvre. Rarely do gay Black women receive the spotlight, and certainly not in the mid-1980s, when the play arrived in New York. Nor in the 1920s, when the real Ma — and her protégée, the blues singer Bessie Smith — was part of a crew of queer Black female artists. (Ma’s lyrics often referenced her attraction to women, as in “Prove It on Me Blues” [1928]: “Went out last night with a crowd of my friends. / It must’ve been women, ’cause I don’t like no men.”) In the theatrical version, Ma has one woman in her entourage, Dussie Mae, with whom she flirts and of whom she becomes possessive, though she never speaks of sexuality aloud: a notable omission for a character rooted in the Black community, where queerness has historically been, and is often still, marginalized and stigmatized.

Despite, and because of, these absences, which seem more noticeable today, Wilson’s work feels as familiar as a backyard barbecue or a post-church family dinner. His plays are united by their sensuousness, from the sounds of singing to the smell of beans and bread in a kitchen. In one scene in “Radio Golf,” a character interrupts another with a non sequitur about bread pudding (“I have something for you,” one says, referring to a check, and the other replies, “It ain’t no bread pudding, is it? I was just thinking about some bread pudding”). Wilson once said that the bread pudding represents an essential quality in his work — a savory digression: “The bread pudding is not part of the traditional structure of the play, but it’s part of the structure of this particular community.” He called the bread pudding an intrusion of history, where his characters’ identities assert themselves into the plot — or lack thereof. In another scene in the same play, the protagonist, a well-educated real estate developer named Harmond Wilks, reminisces about the first time he met the woman who would become his wife: “It was raining. I thought she was gonna melt. The rain look like it hurt her. Like the two wasn’t supposed to go together. You couldn’t mix them up.” The string of simple sentences and fragments replicates the character’s piecemeal rendering of the memory and creates the same effect for the audience: first the rain, then her. The gaps in the telling — those stubborn periods that make each statement so staccato — create a rhythm that mimics a slow, steady storm. In the span of just a few seconds, Wilson presents us with a scene that doesn’t simply serve the image but speaks it.

ROMERO OFTEN USES the word “uncompromising” when discussing her husband. “One of his main sayings was, ‘Something is not always better than nothing,’ because he would rather take nothing than something that was compromised,” she says. “Many of his characters are that way.” When Wilson was a child in Pittsburgh, his mother won a much-needed washing machine in a contest, but when the prize-givers found out she was Black, they offered her a used machine instead. Daisy Wilson, a homemaker, refused to take it: Something’s not always better than nothing. “My mother made me believe that I could do anything,” Wilson is quoted as saying in the introduction to a 2007 anthology. “I saw myself as a grand person. I saw the pictures of Richard Wright, Langston Hughes — all of them always had a suit on. I thought, ‘Yeah, that’s me. I want to be like that.’” His nickname as a teen was Napoleon, a figure the playwright said he was interested in because he was a “self-made emperor.” (Wilson dropped out of high school in 1960 after a teacher accused him of plagiarizing a paper on the French military leader.)

As an adult, Wilson was known for his kindness and generosity; though self-assured, he wasn’t self-important. But he also wasn’t a pushover: The actor and playwright Ruben Santiago-Hudson, a longtime friend and collaborator, says his friendship with the writer was marked by long, deep conversations but also plenty of arguments. In 1996, Wilson drew attention in the theater community by delivering a speech titled “The Ground on Which I Stand,” in which he advocated for more Black-made art and Black-owned theaters instead of then-fashionable measures like colorblind casting. What followed were a series of arguments between Wilson and the white theater critic Robert Brustein, culminating in a 1997 live debate at New York’s Town Hall, moderated by the actress and playwright Anna Deavere Smith.

His scripts were similarly uncompromising: “He didn’t write the way people thought you should write plays,” says Santiago-Hudson, 64, who adapted “Ma Rainey” for the screen. “When he’d write, he talked about rhythm, so I had to keep the song familiar to August and familiar to the journey of African-American people.” His predecessor, both stylistically and philosophically, was Lorraine Hansberry, whose 1959 “A Raisin in the Sun,” about a poor Black family hoping for a better life in midcentury Chicago, made her the first Black female playwright to be produced on Broadway (Lloyd Richards, who directed it, became the first Black director to stage a Broadway drama). Wilson expanded upon Hansberry’s legacy, dedicating himself to a body of work about the lives of everyday Black people. In doing so, he created a theater in which Blackness was no longer tokenized but the norm, and where whiteness, for a change, existed in the margins of the story. As important was his emphasis on regular Black people — his characters weren’t meant to be symbols, the best or worst of a race: They were average, and no less engrossing for that.

Before Wilson became a playwright, he aspired to be a poet, and his early works featured characters who spoke in highly stylized lyrics, so unlike the casual, vernacular dialogue he’s celebrated for today. At first, he “didn’t recognize the poetry in the everyday language of Black America,” he admitted in a 1999 Paris Review interview. “I thought I had to change it to create art.” Eventually, Wilson found the majesty in Black colloquial language, which had the same obstinate sense of dignity as his structures and characters. Indeed, their language is one of the central ways Wilson’s characters embody their stations in life, which can’t be divorced from the diction, grammar and syntax they use with one another. Even now, there is the stigma of urban Black dialect being a bastardization of “proper” English, despite the fact that “Black” English is often appropriated by non-Blacks as a form of social capital. Wilson made a case for the merits of this language on its own terms.

Consider one of his signature phrases: “Talking about … ,” as many characters begin, usually indignantly, in response to another character’s comment. The subject is dropped, and the verb almost dons the dress of a gerund — “talking” as a noun, its own entity, independent of the speaker. By this simple twist of syntax, talk — rumors, claims — is framed as the heart of these plays and the means by which Wilson defines the endurance and significance of Blackness in America. Mixed in with these colloquialisms are long arias that interrupt the naturalistic back and forth; characters go off into lengthy monologues in which they describe feelings and visions in looser prose. “I ain’t studying you,” one character will say to another dismissively, but these figures do study one another, and we do the same.

WHAT DOES THE dignified Black man sound like? The polished poise of Sidney Poitier? The daring speech of Muhammad Ali? The gospel thunder of Martin Luther King Jr.? Or perhaps the fiery, gladiatorial rhetoric of Malcolm X? He is a paragon, someone to look to in a culture that actively tears down Black achievements and disregards Black history and Black lives.

Wilson’s works are replete with mentions of great Black figures of his era: the boxer Joe Louis, the slugger Jackie Robinson, the activist Marcus Garvey. They are always used as examples, representatives of a greatness that the characters know they themselves may never attain. Wilson’s protagonists spend much of their time questioning how to live their lives with self-respect and status: Many look to professional sports, which have historically both fetishized and exploited the Black male body. (In “Fences,” Troy Maxson, the middle-aged garbageman, bemoans the career he could’ve had in baseball.) Black fathers and sons face a generational divide in their responses to the threats of white America: Soberly acquiesce or proudly fight back? And Black husbands and boyfriends mark their status by the Black women around them, whether they can “keep” and treat them well. (In Wilson’s work, a Black woman’s dignity almost always lies in her ability and willingness to stay with her man or define herself independently of him. Ma Rainey, of course, is the outlier.)

For every illustrious Black figure in Wilson’s plays, there has been a renowned Black actor to bring that character to life. Anthony Chisholm, a friend of the playwright who died in October at the age of 77, was perhaps best known for appearing in four Broadway productions from the Cycle: “Two Trains Running” (1992), “Gem of the Ocean” (2004), “Radio Golf” (2007) and “Jitney” (2017). The 64-year-old actor-director Kenny Leon, who met Wilson while participating in a directing fellowship early in his career, acted in the world-premiere production of “Gem of the Ocean,” about a young Black man who seeks redemption from his spiritual matriarch Aunt Esther, in 2003 at Chicago’s Goodman Theatre. The following year, Leon directed the Broadway production of the play, starring Phylicia Rashad, and then directed Washington and Davis in “Fences” onstage before helping Wilson finish “Radio Golf.” Indeed, it can seem that all of America’s prominent Black actors have spoken Wilson’s lines at some point in their careers: Angela Bassett in the original production of “Joe Turner’s Come and Gone” (1986), Samuel L. Jackson in the original productions of “The Piano Lesson” (1987) and “Two Trains Running” (1990), James Earl Jones and Courtney B. Vance in the original production of “Fences” (1985). Just as Shakespeare serves as a rite of passage for many actors, the aforementioned included, a performance in a Wilson play often represents a substantial career opportunity. All 10 plays in the Cycle have been produced on Broadway — a remarkable feat for a playwright of any race — and Wilson has become, for better or worse, the standard-bearer of Black American theater, the visibility of his work unmatched by any of his peers.

“It’s almost revolutionary what he’s done … for the Black community itself, because he’s made us kings and queens,” Davis says. (Sometimes literally: In “King Hedley II,” the 2001 Broadway production for which the actress won a Tony, the main character, an ex-con in the 1980s, is named King and declares he will only be addressed by his regal name.) Simply allowing Black actors to speak freely and at length in language that doesn’t make them tropes or foils for white actors validates their presence and their voice, and recognizes the prestige in both.

And then there are the play’s songs, lyrics shared and passed down as a tie between generations, like Maxson’s lament in “Fences” about an old dog named Blue. “There’s a rhythm in it that is in our souls,” Washington says. “Music that’s in my DNA that goes back through slavery.” Such poignancy also reveals itself in the documentary “Giving Voice,” which likewise premieres this month on Netflix and follows a group of American high school students who compete in the annual August Wilson Monologue Competition, now in its 13th year, for which finalists travel to New York City and perform onstage at the August Wilson Theater. The motivation behind the contest is to expose children to creative opportunities and also to inspire the teenagers with the plays themselves. “They didn’t know that the Century Cycle was there for them,” says Fernando Villena, the co-director of the film with James D. Stern.

WHEN CONTEMPORARY Black playwrights discuss the Pittsburgh Cycle, they often use similar language. Wilson, several told me, “liberated” them, widening the field for other Black artists to invent Black stories on a larger scale. The 42-year-old playwright Dominique Morisseau, who is completing her own cycle of plays about urban life set in her hometown, Detroit, says Wilson’s plays taught her to ignore the theater’s dominant white gaze. The 50-year-old playwright and director Robert O’Hara, who last year directed Jeremy O. Harris’s “Slave Play” on Broadway, says that he isn’t often approached to do revivals of Wilson’s plays because they are typically framed with an aura of “preciousness” and staged with an eye toward hyperrealism. To him, this disregards the magic and imagination of the Cycle, particularly the mysticism of certain characters and the vivid creation of Wilson’s City of Bones, a recurring metaphor throughout the plays about the ancestral grounds of Black Americans whose forefathers were trafficked across the Atlantic. And as a gay Black man, he’s influenced by the Cycle’s consistent heteronormativity: From it, he says, he “took the absence of queerness, the overall conflict that the Black experience can have onstage … and [the idea] that we have a variety of needs and a variety of emotions and reactions.”

It’s true that, for all of Wilson’s genius, he tends to repeat his own Black clichés: the elder who speaks of keeping one’s head down, the headstrong youngster who wants to fight his way to the top, the responsible girlfriend who must remain strong. The nuances of the community that he didn’t fully capture are also part of his legacy, both for playwrights who are his creative heirs and those who, like prodigal children, cast off in the opposite direction. “I was told coming up that my plays were not like August Wilson’s and, therefore, I needed to know I was out of line,” says the 57-year-old playwright Suzan-Lori Parks. This has been one unfortunate side effect of Wilson’s acclaim — that he, who never exceptionalized, has been exceptionalized himself, heralded as the go-to Black playwright among producers making a halfhearted attempt to increase diversity, and held up as the yardstick by which other Black dramatists are measured. In Parks’s case, those comparisons only inspired her to go her own way. “Maybe that’s the DNA of his work that lives in my work, the audacity of presence,” she adds. “Like, ‘We be here, we’re standing here, we talk.’”

Wilson himself recognized that Black power in this country was rooted in that same binary of struggle and resilience; as he said in his “Ground on Which I Stand” speech, “I stand myself and my art squarely on the self-defining ground of the slave quarters, and find the ground to be hallowed and made fertile by the blood and bones of the men and women who can be described as warriors on the cultural battlefield that affirmed their self-worth.” His legacy, more than his singular figure or “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom” or the rest of the Pittsburgh Cycle, then, is one of community, in which Black artists are legion, part of a larger and richer portrait of Blackness that we knew was there all along.

This is what it means to run toward a song, like the two Black men running through the woods of Barnesville — a song tied to the past, like the blues, but also living in the present. “It is hard to define this music,” Wilson wrote in the introduction to “Ma Rainey.” “Suffice it to say that it is music that breathes and touches. That connects. That is in itself a way of being, separate and distinct from any other.” Ma Rainey is singing. Wilson is singing. And now, some 15 years after his death, he’s asking us to join in.





No.37 article:
A Painstaking Portrait of Some of New York’s Darkest Days

Few places have been hit by the coronavirus the way a stretch of Queens was last spring. A group of Times journalists built something to help us remember that.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

More than 600 miles of subway tracks carve through the streets of New York City, but the 7 train, which runs along Queens’s bustling Roosevelt Avenue, glides above perhaps the most ethnically diverse urban area in the world.

Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers live between the line’s 69th Street to 103rd Street stops, which serve five neighborhoods — Corona, East Elmhurst, Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Woodside. The area has long been a setting for ambitious New York Times storytelling, allowing reporters to capture the borough’s range of cuisines, street life, aesthetics, living conditions and dreams.

“Queens is so endlessly fascinating because it’s really the heart and soul of the city’s ever-changing diversity,” said Dan Barry, a reporter who was born in Jackson Heights. “Dozens of languages being spoken — you know, every time I talk to a demographer the number goes up; it’s 160 languages spoken, 180 languages spoken.”

But by the end of March, this area had also become “the epicenter of the epicenter,” where thousands fell sick within weeks, signaling the apparent threat the coronavirus posed to the United States.

In late April, Mr. Barry and the Metro desk’s immigration reporter, Annie Correal, teamed up with the Times photojournalist Todd Heisler to build a narrative project that would capture what it was like in Queens during those grueling and terrifying days last spring.

Their report was published on Thursday, and appears in newspapers on Sunday as a special print section designed by the art director Wayne Kamidoi.

“It was always meant to be a sort of signature, sweeping, cinematic look at Queens during the worst weeks of the pandemic,” said Kirsten Danis, Metro’s investigations editor. “We wanted to go back and explore: What was that like for the people living through it?”

Some parts of the narrative were clear from the start. One day in March, when 13 Covid-19 patients died at Elmhurst Hospital, would help frame the story. Mr. Barry called that day “a seminal moment not only in New York City but for the country.”

But the biggest challenge for the team of reporters, who spent months speaking to local residents, was finding the right people to follow.

“We wanted to make certain that the reader wouldn’t just read about one death after the next,” Ms. Correal said. “We wanted it to be representative of reality, which is that many, many people did survive.”

In early May, Ms. Correal began tracing the virus’s havoc in reverse by reaching out to local organizing groups, such as New Immigrant Community Empowerment and Make the Road New York. As she heard about the L.G.B.T.Q. community in Jackson Heights — a tight-knit group that had withstood waves of gentrification — it became clear that queer people had been hit particularly hard by the virus. Their stories would have to be told.

When the team members combed through the borough to speak with local residents, they found they needed extra reporting help.

“Given that more than 50 percent of the population in some of these ZIP codes is Hispanic, it was really critical that we had Spanish speakers,” Ms. Correal said.

Alongside Ms. Correal and Mr. Heisler, who are both Spanish speakers, Jo Corona, a freelance reporter, was out every day chasing down leads.

“She literally would talk to people on their stoop, who were sitting outside getting a moment of fresh air,” Ms. Correal added. (Their reporting would later be translated into Spanish.)

As they whittled down the narrative, six subjects emerged: Yimel Alvarado, Mahdia Chowdhury, Rosa Lema, Dawa Sherpa, Jack Wongserat and Laura Iavicoli. They were born, respectively, in Mexico, Bangladesh, Ecuador, Nepal, Thailand and the United States.

Mr. Barry and Ms. Correal each took on three profiles, building a sprawling timeline to weave each person’s experience into one cohesive story. They spent months interviewing relatives in the sweltering summer heat, wearing protective equipment as they cautiously entered homes alongside Mr. Heisler to take in the small details of each place.

But as certain days became their own chapters of the story, Mr. Heisler faced a different challenge.

“Writers have the ability to travel throughout time; photographers do not,” he said. “You have to go back and figure out: What can I photograph in the present that still resonates in somebody’s life? What’s still there? Who remains?”

Through tearful conversations with surviving family members — and glimpses at photographs and urns — the reporters got an intimate look at how the virus affected thousands of people.

Capturing these people’s stories with careful attention to detail, the team hoped, would allow readers to understand the pandemic on a personal level.

“We hope that you can feel the building of foreboding, you can feel an affinity or an attraction to the characters we’re presenting,” Mr. Barry said. “So whatever happens to those characters, you feel it in your bones.”





No.38 article:
How Francis Ford Coppola Got Pulled Back In to Make ‘The Godfather, Coda’

The director and cast, including Al Pacino, Sofia Coppola and Andy Garcia, look back at making “Part III,” which has been re-edited (and retitled) for its 30th anniversary.

In the final scene of “The Godfather Part III,” Michael Corleone, the aged protagonist of this epic crime drama, is left in solitude to contemplate his sins, gripped with guilt over actions that have devastated his family and the knowledge that he cannot change what he has done.

Francis Ford Coppola, the director and co-screenwriter of the “Godfather” series, has never approached his work in quite the same way. These three movies have won a combined nine Academy Awards, grossed more than $1.1 billion when adjusted for inflation and gained an exalted status in the popular consciousness. But rather than regard them as immutable monuments, Coppola has treated them like an unfinished painting he is free to update.

He has previously restored and reordered portions of the “Godfather” story, modifying its multigenerational tale of corruption, vengeance and family duty as his own ideas about storytelling have evolved.

Now he has turned his attention to “The Godfather Part III,” the 1990 film that took a more meditative approach to the Corleones. Unlike the near universal acclaim the first two movies enjoy, “Part III” is remembered as the Fredo of its family — the one that doesn’t really measure up. It was criticized for its lugubrious tone, convoluted plot and Coppola’s casting of his daughter, Sofia — now a celebrated filmmaker in her own right — as Michael’s doomed daughter, Mary.

For a new theatrical and home-video release this month, Coppola has rechristened the film as “Mario Puzo’s The Godfather, Coda: The Death of Michael Corleone.” The new name pays tribute to Puzo, his “Godfather” co-screenwriter and author of the original novel, and includes the title they originally intended for the film that became “Part III.” The director has changed its beginning and ending and made alterations throughout to excavate and clarify the narrative that he always believed it contained about mortality and redemption.

The history of this “Godfather” movie is as sweeping and dramatic as the much-told tales behind the creation of its two illustrious predecessors, full of conflict, perseverance and decisive last-minute changes. It is a legend that seemingly ended with a fatally flawed result — but now has a new untold chapter that could improve the standing of the final film in one of the most influential franchises of all time.

Coppola’s personal story is of course inextricable from the story of the movie, and there is more at stake for the director than reclaiming his movie from the tarnished reputation he felt it never deserved. At 81, he is still striving to demonstrate his vitality as a filmmaker and reconnect with the rebellious energy that permeated the making of the first two “Godfathers.”

He is no longer the barnstorming artistic despot of the 1970s; these days he approaches his trade like a seasoned craftsman, always honing his work in search of some mythical ideal. Using a quaint metaphor, he compared his process to fixing a cigarette lighter.

As Coppola explained in an interview, “You put in more fluid. Then it’s too much fluid, so you have to put in a new flint. You have to pull the wick out. And then, all of a sudden, it lights.”

COPPOLA NEVER INTENDED to make even one sequel to “The Godfather,” his blockbuster 1972 adaptation of Puzo’s best-selling novel. But he said he had been “seduced” by Paramount, the studio behind the films, which acceded to his demand to give the initial follow-up the then-unusual title of “The Godfather Part II.”

Already, Coppola said, Paramount had visions of building the original runaway hit into a multi-movie franchise. As he explained the studio’s philosophy, he said, “You’ve got Coca-Cola, why not make more Coca-Cola?”

When “Part II,” released in 1974, unexpectedly matched the critical and commercial acclaim of its predecessor, few of Coppola’s colleagues believed that he was interested in risking his luck on a third installment. “I always thought Francis was done with it,” Al Pacino said. He himself was ready to leave behind his career-making role as Michael Corleone. As he put it in a recent interview, “I felt a little tired of doing that kind of thing. It was consuming.”

The studio nonetheless continued to develop a third “Godfather” and courted Coppola, who had moved onto ambitious projects like “Apocalypse Now.” But in the 1980s, his costly misfires, like “One From the Heart” and “The Cotton Club,” made Paramount’s offer one that he — well, you know how the quotation goes.

“I was in much less of a strong position,” Coppola said. “Frankly, I needed the money, and I was coming out of a real financial doldrum where I had almost lost everything.”

Another incentive for Coppola to return was to team up again with Puzo, his esteemed screenwriting partner, and compose the script for “Part III”: one branch of the story would follow a new family member, Vincent (played by Andy Garcia), an illegitimate child of Michael’s brother Sonny, as he tries to earn his place in the Corleone clan, while another branch would chronicle Michael’s efforts to buy his way to legitimacy and absolution.

Pacino was delighted by the screenplay, in which Michael’s well-honed craftiness would be tested by unexpected guile within the Vatican: “He found something a little more corrupt than his criminal world,” the actor said.

Though it would be decades before Coppola could call the film “Coda,” he already saw the project as such: “It was really our intention to make it a summing-up and an interpretation of the first two movies, rather than a third movie,” he said.

IN SEPTEMBER 1989, the “Part III” cast and crew gathered at Coppola’s Napa Valley vineyard to rehearse and prepare for filming. The roster included “Godfather” mainstays like the cinematographer Gordon Willis and the production designer Dean Tavoularis.

As Coppola had toyed with the ages of the Vincent and Mary characters — first older, then younger — he had contemplated several actresses to play Michael’s beloved daughter: he had tested Madonna for the role and also considered Julia Roberts before casting Winona Ryder. Ryder was expected to arrive later in the process, so Coppola’s 18-year-old daughter, Sofia, stood in for her at this preliminary stage.

The production then moved to Italy, where the latter half of the film takes place, for an experience that some veteran members of the cast found almost indescribably sumptuous.

“For me, that was my favorite of the ‘Godfather’s, because I was happy and I really enjoyed who I was playing,” said Diane Keaton, who was Kay Corleone in all three films. “At the time, I was with Al. I was sort of his — I don’t know what you would call me — I guess I was his girlfriend. It was an amazing experience just to be there and partake.”

Coppola was working against a grueling timetable dictated by Paramount, which wanted the movie for Christmas 1990, but the actors found him to be a meticulous and communicative director.

“When you were doing a scene with him, it wasn’t just, ‘OK, everybody, let’s rehearse and let’s go,’” Garcia recalled. “He takes his time to set up the world and the reasons why this scene exists and the objectives of why we’re here.”

Changes to the script were also commonplace. Citing an aphorism he’d heard from Tavoularis, Garcia said, “With Francis, the script is like a newspaper — it comes out every day.”

But in Italy, the film faced a serious crisis. Ryder, who had just finished shooting “Mermaids” in Boston, became ill when she arrived in Rome and withdrew from the film. Reports from that time said that actresses like Annabella Sciorra and Laura San Giacomo were suggested as possible replacements; today, Coppola would say only that “Paramount had a list of many fine actresses who were older than I felt the character should be.”

“I wanted a teenager,” he added. “I wanted the baby fat on her face.”

Instead, the director saw his solution in Sofia, who was visiting the set on a break from her freshman year of college. She had appeared in several of her father’s previous films, including “Rumble Fish” and “Peggy Sue Got Married,” and knew his rhythms and shorthand.

Sofia Coppola said her decision to take the part was straightforward and organic, undertaken as an act of good will to her father.

“It seemed like he was under a lot of pressure and I was helping out,” she said. “There was this panic and before I knew it, I was in a makeup chair in Cinecittà Studios in Rome having my hair dyed.” But she trusted her father’s judgment and felt safe among his collaborators: “For me, they were all my family,” she said. “It felt very separate from the outside world.”

Talia Shire, who played Connie Corleone and is the director’s sister, said that Sofia Coppola’s involvement reinvigorated her father at a crucial moment.

“It was a stressful time,” Shire said. “Her being in it and his focus on sculpting her performance kept him connected to the piece. His passion for it returned.”

But amid the whirlwind that swept her up and dropped her in front of her father’s cameras, Sofia Coppola said she never considered the wider ramifications that her choice might have. “I wasn’t taking things super-seriously,” she said. “I was at the age of trying anything. I just jumped into it without thinking much about it.”

“THE GODFATHER PART III” OPENED as scheduled on Dec. 25, 1990. Critical reactions were as extravagant as the hype surrounding it, and some reviews were glowing: The New York Times called it “a valid and deeply moving continuation of the Corleone family saga” that offered Coppola “the opportunity to regain a career’s lost luster.” Many other notices were not just negative but scathing: The Washington Post said the film “isn’t just a disappointment, it’s a failure of heartbreaking proportions,” adding that it “sullies what came before.”

A particular strain of criticism focused on Sofia Coppola’s performance as Mary, who dies in a botched attempt on Michael’s life. The Post called her “hopelessly amateurish,” and Time magazine wrote that her “gosling gracelessness comes close to wrecking the movie.” Gene Siskel said in a TV review that she was “out of her acting league.”

For Sofia Coppola, the cultural whiplash was bewildering; she had been asked to take part in glamorous photography shoots for magazines like Entertainment Weekly, only to find herself on their covers surrounded by headlines like “Is She Terrific, or So Terrible She Wrecked Her Dad’s New Epic?”

Looking back on the ordeal, she said, “It was embarrassing to be thrown out to the public in that kind of way. But it wasn’t my dream to be an actress, so I wasn’t crushed. I had other interests. It didn’t destroy me.”

“Part III” grossed more than $136 million worldwide; it was nominated for seven Oscars but won none. Francis Ford Coppola, already smarting from the negative reviews, was further stung by what he saw as efforts to make Sofia a scapegoat for its shortcomings and blamed himself for putting her in that position.

“They wanted to attack the picture when, for some, it didn’t live up to its promise,” he said. “And they came after this 18-year-old girl, who had only done it for me.” The story he had just told in the movie provided an irresistible metaphor: “The daughter took the bullet for Michael Corleone — my daughter took the bullet for me,” he said.

DECADES WENT BY, during which Coppola continued to rework his past films, including the first two “Godfather” movies, “Apocalypse Now” and “The Cotton Club.” He also shed some of his pride and became a humbler person. If his name evokes the mental image of a burly, bearded, sometimes bare-chested beast working a camera in a Southeast Asian jungle, he and his beard are thinner now, and his manner is more deferential.

He is aware of the checkered reputation of “The Godfather Part III” and that no amount of changes might be enough to redeem it in the eyes of some viewers. As he told me in a video interview from his Napa estate, “When a movie is first made and is about to be released, you know that whatever the reaction is will define it for its entire life.”

There were things about the movie that irked him, too, starting with the “Part III” title he was compelled to accept. “It was the thread hanging out of the sock that annoyed me, so that led me to pull on the thread,” he said.

He realized that the opening in the film’s theatrical release — which mixes footage of the Corleones’ Lake Tahoe home seen in “Part II” with a mournful voice-over from Michael — made it “difficult to grasp what the story was about.” As he told me, “The audience goes into a film with a certain amount of resources. They’re willing to go with you, but there’s a limit.”

“The Godfather, Coda” now begins with a scene that came later in “Part III,” when Michael is negotiating a multimillion-dollar deal, involving the Vatican Bank and a real-estate company, with the desperate Archbishop Gilday (Donal Donnelly). The aim of this change, Coppola said, was in part to more closely parallel the opening of the original “Godfather,” when Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) hears the angry pleadings of a wronged undertaker.

Starting this way immediately establishes the stakes of the film, Coppola said: “You get it put right to you: What is the big deal about? The Corleones have reached such a level of success and wealth that they’re able to loan money to the Vatican.”

“Coda” has other nips and tucks throughout — you’ll see less, for example, of Don Altobello, a supporting character played by Eli Wallach — but the other significant change comes at the conclusion. (Turn away here if you don’t want it spoiled for you.)

Where “Part III” ended famously — some might say notoriously — with the elderly Michael slumping in his chair and falling dead to the ground, “Coda” shows him old and alive as the scene fades to black and a series of title cards appear. They read, “When the Sicilians wish you ‘Cent’anni’ … it means ‘for long life.’ … and a Sicilian never forgets.”

Despite a new title that promises otherwise, Coppola explained that Michael does not actually die. “In fact, for his sins, he has a death worse than death,” Coppola said. “He may have lived many, many years past this terrible conclusion. But he never forgot what he paid for it.”

Pacino said he enjoyed his preparations for Michael’s original death, an approach that was criticized as exaggerated and unintentionally comedic. “That was just fun to do,” Pacino said. “I spent hours, days, weeks, thinking, how am I going to die? It’s fatalist. I love dying. What actor doesn’t?”

But ending the movie as Coppola does now, with Michael stranded in a purgatory of his own making, felt right, Pacino said. “Leaving him awake, not dying, that’s the tragedy of it all,” he said.

Perhaps his only regret, Pacino said as his voice rose to an exaggerated volume, is that he cannot do the scene again when he is finally as old as Michael is meant to be: “I’m ready to do it now!” he exclaimed. “I understand it better! I don’t need makeup!”

BY INTRODUCING A NOTE OF AMBIGUITY, Coppola and his actors are aware of the familiar questions they are opening themselves up to: Could there be further “Godfather” movies to come? Could Michael Corleone still factor into someone else’s future schemes?

“It looks that way now, doesn’t it?” Pacino said teasingly. “Somebody’s going to come calling on him for advice.”

Garcia has grown accustomed to disappointing fans who expect concrete answers to these inquiries. “Not a week goes by that someone doesn’t come to me and say, Hey, man, where’s ‘Godfather IV’?” he said. “I say, I’ll let you know when I get the call.”

But running jokes aside, it is highly unlikely that these key players would go forward without Coppola’s involvement, and he has made clear that he wants to move on.

The director said there were discussions, many years ago, about a potential fourth film — as he imagined it, it would have continued the story of Vincent in the present day and returned to the story of Vito and Sonny in the 1930s — but Puzo’s death in 1999 foreclosed that possibility.

This does not prevent Paramount from making sequels if it wants to. “There may well be a ‘Godfather IV’ and ‘V’ and ‘VI,’” Coppola said. “I don’t own ‘The Godfather.’” (Paramount said in a statement, “While there are no imminent plans for another film in the ‘Godfather’ saga, given the enduring power of its legacy it remains a possibility if the right story emerges.”)

For others who participated in “Part III,” parts of the movie still hold up with the best of the trilogy, in their estimation, and its perceived flaws don’t seem as bothersome over time.

“It taught me that as a creative person, you have to put your work out there,” Sofia Coppola said. “It toughens you up. I know it’s a cliché, but it can make you stronger.”

Just a few days earlier, her teenage daughter, Romy, told her she had read about her mother’s much-discussed performance. “She said, ‘I saw online that you did the worst death scene ever in the history of movies,’” Sofia recalled. “I was like, oh my God, all these years later, it’s still a thing.”

With a laugh, she added, “I think it’s so funny that it lingers, all these years later. It’s fine.”

For Francis Ford Coppola, the fact that he has probably put his final stamp on the film series that altered his life and influenced moviemaking for decades to come is not an occasion for nostalgia or celebration; it’s just a reminder that there are so many more kinds of movies he still wants to make and genres he wants to play in.

“I like life to be an experience that I learn from,” he said. “I felt a sense of completion after the first one. I felt the first film had all the story I saw in the book. I felt satisfied that it was summed up.”

If there are more “Godfather” movies to come, he said, “I won’t do ’em. But I’m an old man.”





No.39 article:
‘Too Tall Bandit,’ Wanted in 15 Robberies, Has Struck Again, F.B.I. Says

The authorities believe the same man responsible for a string of bank robberies across three states is behind a robbery on Friday in North Carolina.

For more than a decade he has been distinguished by his limp, his stature and his signature habit of jumping over counters in a series of bank robberies.

And now, the “Too Tall Bandit” is back in action.

The F.B.I. field office in Charlotte, N.C., announced this week that law enforcement authorities were searching for a man believed to be responsible for at least 16 bank robberies across three states since 2009. The latest was at the United Community Bank in Etowah, N.C., last Friday, it said.

“The serial bank robber nicknamed the ‘Too Tall Bandit’ has struck again,” the office said in a statement on Tuesday.

Law enforcement authorities in Tennessee, North Carolina and South Carolina have been searching for the man they believe is behind a string of robberies that began in 2009, starting with a bank in White House, Tenn., the F.B.I. said.

He came to be known as the Too Tall Bandit as the authorities linked one robbery to another through matching descriptions of a masked man, stringing together a criminal spree longer than many people hold honest jobs.

Described as a white male approximately 40 years old, the Too Tall Bandit is between six and six and a half feet tall. He could weigh up to 250 pounds, the authorities said, and may have brown eyes.

In each robbery, he wears a disguise, including a mask and gloves. He is also dangerous, armed with a black handgun, the statement said.

The F.B.I. said it was working with local and state law enforcement authorities to track the man down and was offering up to $15,000 for information that would help identify a suspect.

Video surveillance over the years shows his quirks. In one video, he climbs over a counter, making a tiny Christmas decoration wobble. Autumn and winter appear to be his favorite seasons: Most of the 16 robberies in which the Too Tall Bandit is a suspect took place in October, November and December. His limp seems pronounced in his right leg.

The first robbery he is suspected in was at Volunteer State Bank in Tennessee on Nov. 27 — 11 years to the day before the most recent one, in Etowah, N.C., according to the F.B.I.

On Nov. 12, 2010, the man held up Sumner Bank &amp; Trust in Gallatin, Tenn., the statement said. In 2012, also in November, he is believed to have hit a SunTrust Bank in Franklin, then lain low until 2014, when he is thought to have carried out a robbery at First Tennessee Bank in Farragut.

According to the statement, after three more in Tennessee in 2014, 2015 and 2016, he crossed state lines into North Carolina, where he is suspected of robbing Home Trust Bank, in Arden, in 2016.

Another bank robbery followed in South Carolina the same year, and then two more in Tennessee in 2017, the F.B.I. list shows.

In 2018, 2019 and 2020, five more banks were robbed: one in Tennessee and four in North Carolina, including the one in Etowah.

“The F.B.I. believes these robberies were committed by the same suspect,” the statement said.

It was not immediately clear where or when the Too Tall Bandit got his nickname, but the F.B.I. often gives such nicknames to facilitate publicity, as with the “Headband Bandit” in San Francisco in 2016, the smiling “Bombshell Bandit” in Los Angeles in 2014 and the “Longhorn Bandit” in Texas in 2017.

In Knoxville, the F.B.I. described the Too Tall Bandit in 2017 as sometimes wearing a Halloween mask during the robberies. He has ordered bank employees to point out the bait money or dye packs, which can help the authorities track him, before stuffing cash in his backpack and ordering them to lie on the floor when he makes his getaway, the F.B.I. said.

He is a right-handed, deep-voiced robber, the Knoxville field office has said. Sometimes, he has been known to go around the teller counter instead of leaping over it.





No.40 article:
At Rally for Georgia Senators, Trump Focuses on His Own Grievances

The president falsely claimed the election was rigged and that he had won. Earlier, he urged Georgia’s governor to call a special legislative session to overturn Joe Biden’s win in the state.

VALDOSTA, Ga. — One month before a pair of Georgia runoffs that will determine the Senate majority, President Trump used a rally for the Republican senators on Saturday to complain about his own loss last month, insisting he would still prevail and, with notably less ardor, encouraging voters here to re-elect the two lawmakers.

Taking the stage for his first rally as a lame duck president, Mr. Trump immediately, and falsely, claimed victory in the presidential race. “You know we won Georgia, just so you understand,” he said.

Mr. Trump lost this state by just under 12,000 votes to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who won the White House with 306 electoral votes. But the president has persisted in his baseless claims that the final outcome remains in doubt.

“They cheated and rigged our presidential election, but we’ll still win,” Mr. Trump said, offering no evidence but nonetheless prompting about 10,000 supporters gathered on the tarmac at a regional airport to chant, “Stop the Steal!”

Speaking for an hour and 40 minutes, the president did read a series of scripted lines about the two Republican senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, and repeatedly urged his supporters in Georgia to vote next month, even mentioning the deadlines for the mail-in ballots he has so often scorned.

Yet he embedded those dutiful remarks of support in a deep thicket of conspiracy-mongering about his defeat and even aired a lengthy montage of video of clips from the conservative news outlets Newsmax and One America News Network, which also depicted a sinister plot of electoral theft.

Before he arrived in Valdosta, the president made no attempt to disguise his central priority as it relates to Georgia: overturning his loss in the state. He began the day with a telephone call with Gov. Brian Kemp, ostensibly to offer his condolences to the governor about the death in a car accident of a young man who was close to Mr. Kemp’s family.

But in truth, Mr. Trump used the call to urge Mr. Kemp, a Republican, to call the state legislature into session so the G.O.P. majorities could appoint new electors who would subvert the will of the state’s voters when the Electoral College meets on Dec. 14. He has also called on Mr. Kemp to order an audit of signatures on ballots.

At the rally, Mr. Trump amplified the critique he had been making of Mr. Kemp much of the day on Twitter, all but demanding that the governor overturn the will of the voters for him. “Your governor could stop it very easily if he knew what the hell he was doing,” the president said. “Stop it very easily.”

The crowd booed when he invoked Mr. Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, the two Georgia Republicans Mr. Trump has been demanding abet his effort to overturn Georgia’s results.

And they cheered when he turned to Representative Doug Collins, a Georgia Republican and Trump loyalist, and suggested he challenge Mr. Kemp in a gubernatorial primary in 2022.

The president called the January races “the most important congressional runoff probably in American history” and lashed the Democratic nominees, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, as “far-left liberals.”

But he didn’t unspool the most biting attacks on them until about an hour into his remarks, and it was later still that he brought Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler to the stage for brief remarks. Mr. Perdue was nearly drowned out by the audience, which showered him with a “Fight for Trump” chant that only grew louder when the two candidates handed the microphone back to the president. The president’s supporters will not tolerate anything less than total fealty toward him.

Mr. Trump’s persistent lament about what he described as the “rigged” election illustrated the quandary for Republicans.

With Mr. Trump sowing distrust in Georgia’s voting system, railing against the vote-counting machines the state used and falsely asserting that mail-in ballots were rife with fraud, he’s giving Republicans in the state reason to question both voting by mail and in-person voting.

If that prompts even a modest number of Republicans to sit out the Senate runoffs, especially in rural areas where Mr. Trump’s support is strongest, it could be enough to alter the electoral math in the evenly divided state and tip the races to the Democrats.

The president repeatedly sought to encourage Georgians to participate in the runoffs in the same breaths in which he railed against his own loss, offering a jarring, two-speeches-in-one presentation. “You got to get out and vote,” he said just moments after venting that Republicans were purportedly “not nearly as vicious” as Democrats when it came to stealing elections.

In Valdosta, 250 miles south of Atlanta, supporters of the president began arriving by noon for the evening rally. Many of them had crossed the nearby state line from Florida and thus could not vote in the Senate races.

The music, the red-white-and-blue stagecraft and Mr. Trump’s heavily anticipated arrival were all familiar. But he showed little joy, and much of his speech was dedicated to nursing his grievances and was often reminiscent of the rambling, misinformation-filled, 45-minute video he delivered from the White House earlier in the week.

“I got more votes than any sitting president in history,” Mr. Trump said.

The president’s willingness to campaign Saturday night in heavily conservative South Georgia — far from the Atlanta-area voters who rejected him last month — heartened Republican officials, who have been lobbying him to intervene in the runoffs in support of Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue. But aides worried, presciently, in the days leading to the appearance that he would go off script and attack Mr. Kemp, who has become the primary target of Mr. Trump’s Twitter vitriol.

Hoping to pacify Mr. Trump after Saturday’s phone call, Mr. Kemp noted on Twitter that he had already called for an audit of the signatures on mail ballots “to restore confidence in our election process.” But Mr. Kemp’s office has also said the governor does not have the power to unilaterally order a signature audit.

Mr. Kemp did not attend the rally Saturday night because of the death of the family friend.

Before Mr. Trump landed in Valdosta, Republicans took pains to emphasize the task at hand: the January runoffs. A mammoth video screen directed attendees to “Request Your Absentee Ballot Right Now!” and directed them to the website to do so. And Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue both addressed the audience well before Air Force One touched down on a mild late autumn night.

During a speech by Ms. Loeffler, who addressed the crowd nearly two hours before Mr. Trump spoke, the “Stop the steal” chant broke out in the audience — in the cadence of the familiar “Lock her up” chants that were popular during Mr. Trump’s first run.

Ms. Loeffler sought to redirect the crowd’s energy to the runoff elections and away from the president’s attempts to subvert the election results.

“You’re going to vote, right?” she said. “If you vote, we will win. If you don’t, we will lose America and what it’s founded on.”

But as Elton John’s “Saturday Night’s Alright (For Fighting)” blared in advance of Mr. Trump’s appearance, it was far from clear whom the crowd was more intent on directing its hostility toward — Democrats or the Georgia Republicans the president is scapegoating for his loss in the state.

And outside the event, there were few indicators that the purpose of the rally was to elect Georgia’s two Republican senators. Trump signs were ubiquitous, and the merchandisers outside were selling only Trump gear.

The challenge for Republicans was evident in remarks from Mr. Perdue, who veered between encouraging the thousands in attendance to vote in the upcoming runoff and defending Mr. Trump’s efforts to advance his claims of fraud.

“I’m going to fight for this president until he gets every ballot counted correctly and every illegal ballot thrown out,” Mr. Perdue said.

At the same time, he framed January’s runoffs as a final chance for Republicans to issue a check against a Democratic administration.

“If we win Georgia, we save America,” he said. “And thanks to you, we’ll make sure the road to socialism never goes through the state of Georgia.”

Many in the audience had not accepted that Mr. Biden would be the next president.

Jason Kresckey, who attended the rally with his wife, said he wanted to show support for the president.

“Donald Trump’s not going away,” he said. “And that whole movement that he created was a movement that inspired a certain population of people. I just don’t think that feeling is going anywhere soon.”





No.41 article:
Median Home Price Sets New Record in California

The pandemic paused the housing market for a few months, but it has been on a rebound that has pushed the median price over $700,000. 

Fueled by low interest rates and a historic housing shortage, California’s median home price in September reached $712,430, closing out four straight months of record highs.

The state’s housing market briefly cooled in the early months in the coronavirus pandemic, but by June, they were fully on the rebound, with the median sales price reaching $626,200, the highest ever at the time, according to a report from the California Department of Finance. For the next three months, as mortgage rates stayed below 3 percent and many buyers looked to upgrade to larger homes, that number would continue to climb. In August, it exceeded $700,000 for the first time in history.

“A lot of people think the pandemic equals the market is suffering, but that’s just not the case,” said Ryan Lundquist, an appraiser based in Sacramento. “It’s the perfect storm of low rates, a housing shortage that we already had and is getting worse, plus heightened demand.”

There has been much talk of the exodus triggered by California’s inflated cost of living, which has seen Californians trickle outward to states with a lower cost of living — states like Texas, Nevada, and Arizona — for more than a decade. But while the state did lose 650,000 residents last year, “We have 39 million people here,” Mr. Lundquist said. “It’s a drop in the bucket compared to how many people are here, and builders haven’t been able to build fast enough to satisfy our population.”

Those builders also haven’t been able to — or haven’t chosen to — build the kind of properties that the majority of the population needs.

“New home construction skews luxury. We aren’t building enough affordable new homes,” said Jonathan Miller, of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. “Most of the sales growth in single family homes in California is above the $600,000 mark. When it comes to inventory, there is more lost in affordable and modest-priced housing, year over year, than in the upper-level housing market.”

In Los Angeles alone, the contraction of the lower end of the condominium market speaks volumes. Condos priced above $500,000 are flooding the market; those priced below are becoming significantly more scarce. It’s a trend, Mr. Miller said, that isn’t unique to California, but is more pronounced there.

“California is a proxy for what we’re seeing nationally,” he said. “Since the pandemic, the action has been on the higher end. And that makes sense because the unemployment picture is heavily skewed against lower wage earners, which tend to be starter-home buyers, or renters.”

It has been a whiplash year for the Golden State, where the pandemic pushed unemployment numbers to a staggering 16.4 percent in April. By October, however, employers had added 145,500 jobs — the third-highest single-month job gain since 1990 — and the unemployment rate dropped down below 10 percent for the first time since the pandemic began. The median home price cooled slightly in October, as well, slipping 0.2 percent to $711,300.

Such small adjustments are not enough, Mr. Miller said.

“The housing market needs disruption,” he said. “This cocktail of mortgage rates below 3 percent and some of the lowest inventory rates in history is reducing the affordability of housing at an alarming rate. This picture is not sustainable.”





No.42 article:
Quotation of the Day: After Perilous Crossing, Migrants Await Fate in Canary Islands Hotels

“Winter is our main tourism season, and when you come as a tourist, you don’t want to be next to a building that is filled with migrants.”

TOM SMULDERS, president of the main association of hoteliers in Gran Canaria, who opposes the Spanish government’s stowing migrants in empty hotels.





No.43 article:
He Escaped Death as a Kamikaze Pilot. 70 Years Later, He Told His Story.

Kazuo Odachi is one of the last living members of a group never meant to survive. He wants to remind Japan that before its modern success came the sacrifices of the young pilots who gave their lives.

TOKYO — For more than six decades, Kazuo Odachi had a secret: At the age of 17, he became a kamikaze pilot, one of thousands of young Japanese men tasked to give their lives in last-ditch suicide missions near the end of World War II.

As he built a family and a career as a Tokyo police officer, he kept his secret from virtually everyone, even his wife, who knew only that he had served as a Japanese Navy pilot. The experience, he felt, would be too hard to explain to a society that mostly viewed the kamikaze as maniacal zealots who volunteered for an unthinkable sacrifice.

But over the years, as Japan’s complex relationship with the war changed, Mr. Odachi gradually began to share his story with a small group of friends. In 2016, he published a memoir, recounting how he had fallen asleep each night wondering if tomorrow it would be his turn to die for a lost cause. The book was released in English translation in September, the 75th anniversary of the conflict’s end.

Mr. Odachi, 93, one of the last living members of a group never meant to survive, said he hoped to memorialize the pilots as young men whose valor and patriotism were exploited. “I don’t want anyone to forget that the wonderful country that Japan has become today was built on the foundation of their deaths,” he said in a recent interview at his home.

The kamikaze are the most potent symbol of the war in Japan, a vivid example of the dangers of fervent nationalism and martial fanaticism. But as the generation who lived through the war fades away, Japan’s opposing political sides are vying to reinterpret the kamikaze for a public still divided over the conflict’s legacy.

For the right, the kamikaze are a symbol of traditional virtues and a spirit of self-sacrifice that they believe is woefully absent from modern Japan. For the left, they are part of a generation destroyed by Japanese militarism, and a powerful reminder of the importance of maintaining the country’s postwar pacifism.

“The kamikaze as a historical fact, and as a symbol, have a very powerful potential to be used on either side of that argument,” said M.G. Sheftall, a professor at Shizuoka University and the author of “Blossoms in the Wind,” a collection of interviews with the pilots.

Mr. Odachi himself has little interest in politics. Nowadays, he welcomes visitors into his home in the Tokyo suburbs, where he vividly re-enacts old war scenes, stomping on imaginary airplane pedals and fiercely pulling a pretend flight stick.

His story defies the simple stereotypes often evoked by Japan’s conservatives and liberals.

He volunteered to fight in a war he believed his country would not win. He was prepared to die to protect those he loved, but not to throw his life away.

Today, he is staunchly antiwar and thinks Japan’s pacifist constitution is fine just the way it is, but he remains a strong advocate for the country’s right to self-defense. He has no regrets about his decision to enlist, and he visits Yasukuni Shrine — where generations of Japan’s fallen soldiers are enshrined alongside some of its most notorious war criminals — several times a year to console the souls of his friends who died in combat.

Growing up in a village near an air base, Mr. Odachi had long been fascinated by planes, and when the war began, he decided that he would one day fly one. He enlisted in Japan’s armed forces in 1943 and joined the Yokaren, an elite group of teenagers who were trained as Navy pilots.

The Yokaren, Mr. Odachi pointed out, were different from other kamikaze, students who had been yanked out of their schools and consigned to death with little preparation or training. Still, the young men in Mr. Odachi’s program were groomed to die in aerial combat even before Japan’s desperate turn to suicide missions.

Cadets were celebrated as cherry blossoms, a flower whose vivid beauty is accentuated by its brief existence. Even the buttons on their uniforms, embossed with the flower, served as a reminder of their imminent death in battle.

“We all knew that ‘happily ever after’ was an unlikely outcome,” Mr. Odachi wrote in his book, “Memoirs of a Kamikaze.”  “We weren’t destined to live long.”

When he arrived in Japanese-occupied Taiwan in August of 1944, the war was entering its end stage.

Japanese forces had been ground down by American technological superiority and the overwhelming production capacity of the U.S. war machine. An allied victory appeared increasingly inevitable, and Japanese tactics began to demand even greater human sacrifice.

In dogfights, pilots were instructed to “aim to carve the enemy with our own propellers,” Mr. Odachi wrote. “Of course, death was a certainty if this happened, but at least we would take the enemy with us.”

The tactics hinged on the belief that Japanese airmen were more willing to die than their enemies.

The force of that conviction was put to the test in October 1944, when Japan’s Navy decided to gamble everything to stop an American attack on its forces in the Philippines, during what would become known as the Battle of Leyte Gulf.

Japanese officers explained to Mr. Odachi and his cohort the plan to use suicide missions and asked for volunteers. They were met with stunned silence.

Only when the officers began to harangue them did the first few men reticently volunteer, he wrote. “We were essentially cajoled into committing suicide,” he recalled.

On Oct. 25, Mr. Odachi witnessed the first successful sortie of suicide fighters take off from a bombed-out runway in the Philippines. But Mr. Odachi and his fellow troops soon found themselves pinned down in the island nation, as American bombers destroyed many of his squadron’s remaining planes.

Months later, he and others escaped to Taiwan, where, on April 4, 1945, he was ordered on the first mission of his 10-month stint as a suicide pilot.

Mr. Odachi’s Zero — the agile Japanese fighter plane that dominated the Pacific skies in the war’s early years — was loaded with an 1,100-pound bomb, weighing it down so much that it would be impossible to outmaneuver the enemy. When American fighters spotted him, he jettisoned his bomb into the ocean and managed to escape.

On his next sortie, his group failed to find a target. The next six missions also ended in failure.

After each attempt, he would wait for weeks for new orders. Every night, the officers announced who would fly into battle the next day. It “felt like the conferral of the death penalty, and it was stomach-turning,” he wrote.

But by the end, he said, “we had become indifferent to matters of life and death. Our only concern was making the final moment count.”

That moment, however, never came. On his final mission, his plane was preparing to take off when a member of the ground crew ran onto the runway, shouting and waving for the squadron to stop. The emperor, Mr. Odachi learned, had just announced Japan’s surrender. He was going home.

On his return, as a train took him through the bombed-out remains of Hiroshima, he truly understood that the war was over. At his home in Tokyo, he took the ceremonial short sword commemorating his status as a kamikaze and threw it into the hearth fire, where it melted into a lump of steel.

His only souvenirs from the war are a handful of photos and a present from a young woman he met in Taiwan: a silk scarf, made from a parachute, that is embroidered with cherry blossoms and a blue anchor, the symbol of the Yokaren.

Mr. Odachi has never revealed the woman’s identity. It is one of the few things about the war he still refuses to talk about.

People, he said, have often remarked that the kamikaze “didn’t value their own lives.” He hopes that his memoir will remind them not just of the conflict’s costs, but also of the humanity of the young men whose lives were sacrificed for it.

“We were the same age as today’s high school students and college freshmen,” he said. “There wasn’t a single person among us who would have decided on their own to die.”





No.44 article:
DealBook: How to Fix America





No.45 article:
DealBook: How to Fix America





No.46 article:
She Couldn’t Open for Outdoor Dining. The Film Crew Next Door Could.

Restaurant owners say Los Angeles County is unfairly enforcing its ban on outdoor dining, but health officials say rules for film crews are much more strict.

For more than a week, tensions have flared between Los Angeles restaurant owners and politicians over the county’s ban on outdoor dining, which health officials say is necessary to slow the surging pandemic — and restaurateurs say is destroying their livelihoods.

The controversy came to a head on Saturday when a restaurant owner shared a video on social media showing tents, tables and chairs set up as a catering station for a film crew — just feet away from her eatery’s similar outdoor dining space, which has sat empty since the restriction went into effect late last month.

“Tell me that this is dangerous, but right next to me — as a slap in my face — that’s safe?” Angela Marsden, who owns the restaurant, Pineapple Hill Saloon &amp; Grill, said as the video panned from her outdoor dining space to the film crew’s catering site. 

Ms. Marsden had already organized a protest against the outdoor dining ban before discovering the film tents. On Saturday, she and others gathered outside County Supervisor Sheila Kuehl’s house, saying the government’s uneven application of the rules was crushing small businesses.

Ms. Kuehl, who declined to comment on Saturday, was one of several supervisors who voted last month to let the ban, issued by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, go into effect. 

The catering site was for a crew filming “Good Girls,” a comedy television show that airs on NBC, according to Philip Sokoloski, a spokesman for FilmLA, which helps Los Angeles manage film permits. Mr. Sokoloski said the catering site and the film location nearby were both authorized under a permit issued by the city.

The county health department noted in a statement that film crews are regularly tested for the virus and that, unlike at restaurants, people do not mingle for “extended periods of time without their face covering.” Audiences are not allowed at film sites under the county’s guidelines.

“This is different from restaurants that serve different customers throughout the day,” the unsigned statement read.

Mayor Eric Garcetti, who days ago announced a one-time payment of $800 to food industry workers, urged residents to support restaurants by ordering takeout and delivery but said the restrictions were necessary to reduce the virus’s spread.

“My heart goes out to Ms. Marsden and the workers at the Pineapple Hill Saloon who have to comply with state and county public health restrictions that close outdoor dining,” Mr. Garcetti said. “No one likes these restrictions, but I do support them as our hospital I.C.U. beds fill to capacity and cases have increased by 500%. We must stop this virus before it kills thousands of more Angelenos.”

California has declared entertainment industry workers essential, and in Los Angeles County they must follow strict guidelines such as eating in staggered shifts or in an area large enough to stay six feet apart.

Ms. Marsden said in an interview that she saw two people eating without masks at the tables when she went to her restaurant on Friday to pick up paychecks for her employees and supplies for the protest.

“It was devastating,” she said. Referring to her staff, she added, “They can’t pay their rent, they have to tell their kids they don’t have a job or money for Christmas.”

She said she had worked hard to make her outdoor patio compliant with the previous guidelines for outdoor dining before it, too, was banned.

“You name it, we did it,” she said.

The dispute over outdoor dining is not the first time Los Angeles’s entertainment industry has created a real-life drama over coronavirus restrictions. On Tuesday, Mr. Garcetti said he would reopen a coronavirus testing site that had been closed for the filming of a movie featuring Addison Rae, a star on TikTok, after residents criticized its closure.

California is seeing its sharpest increase in cases since the pandemic took hold and Los Angeles County has reported a record number of virus cases in recent days. Over the past week, the county has reported an average of more than 6,000 cases and 34 deaths daily.

Indoor dining has been banned for months in the county, but health officials prohibited outdoor dining on Nov. 25, the day before Thanksgiving, “to reduce the possibility for crowding and the potential for exposure.”

Restaurants and some cities within Los Angeles County revolted against new prohibitions on outdoor dining, saying the risks of spreading the virus outdoors were not great enough to justify shutting down businesses. Pasadena allows limited outdoor dining. And the Beverly Hills City Council unanimously passed a resolution on Tuesday calling on the county to repeal the restrictions and directing its staff to explore whether Beverly Hills should create its own health department instead of relying on the county’s.

A Los Angeles County judge on Wednesday ordered health officials to produce scientific evidence that backs up the ban on outdoor dining.

“You have to do a risk-benefit analysis for public health,” Judge James Chalfant said at the hearing, according to The Los Angeles Times. “You don’t just talk about the risk of spreading disease. You have to talk about the benefit of keeping restaurants open.”

The California Restaurant Association, which filed a lawsuit challenging the ban, had urged Judge Chalfant to block the outdoor dining restrictions, but he previously declined to do so. The trade group’s president welcomed the judge’s demand for evidence from the county.

“As we’ve repeatedly said, their order was arbitrary and targeted restaurants unfairly, without supporting evidence,” Jot Condie, the president, said in a statement.





No.47 article:
Two Retiring Senators, Two Divergent Views on How to Save the Senate

Senators Lamar Alexander, a Republican, and Tom Udall, a Democrat, agree the institution needs fixing but differ on what the solution is.

WASHINGTON — The two senators are friends from opposite parties, both proven legislators with glittery political pedigrees who are leaving Congress on their own terms at the end of this year.

Yet Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, fundamentally differ on what it would take to get the dysfunctional Senate back on track, illustrating how hard it will be to restore legislative productivity to a struggling institution.

Mr. Alexander, a former governor, cabinet secretary, presidential candidate and university president, said that senators would be making a fatal mistake if they eliminated the filibuster, which he sees as the essence of the chamber.

“It would basically destroy the Senate,” Mr. Alexander, a three-term senator, said in an interview, crediting the procedural weapon with forcing compromise. “It would be a second House of Representatives. The freight train of the people would run through every two years depending on whatever the fever was.”

Mr. Alexander said he found it particularly odd that Democrats wanted to abolish a tactic that has served them so well as the minority party.

“They have used it to their enormous advantage over the last six years,” he said. “They have been protected.”

Mr. Udall, a member of a storied political family from the West who served as attorney general in his home state, has been trying to gut the filibuster almost since he got to the Senate in 2009 after five terms in the House. He said he saw the 60-vote threshold to advancing bills as an impediment to coming up with answers for the existential problems of the moment, such as climate change.

“Our founders would have been outraged at the idea that the Senate should be run as a supermajority institution,” said Mr. Udall, who is departing after two Senate terms. “Let’s focus on rules that allow the majority to move forward. At the end of the day, 51 votes. That is what works for the American people. And it has accountability built into it.”

He said he feared for the next four years as he sees Republicans digging in against the incoming administration as they did against President Barack Obama beginning in 2009.

“I am already worried about what I see, and us not coming together around this new president and his team and not giving him a chance to succeed,” said Mr. Udall, who has been mentioned as a contender to be interior secretary or to fill another post in the Biden administration, a prospect he said he would welcome.

Party control of the Senate will be decided in two Georgia runoffs on Jan. 5. No matter the outcome there, Democrats who had threatened to abolish the filibuster to advance a sweeping legislative agenda would probably lack the votes to do so even if they took charge in a 50-50 Senate with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris providing the tiebreaking vote. But the focus on the filibuster reflects a frustration from both parties that little is getting done in a Senate that in Mr. Alexander’s view, is, at minimum, underachieving.

“I think the Senate is far from reaching its potential given the talent on its team,” said Mr. Alexander, diplomatically assessing a chamber that has since 2015 been under the control of his friend of 50 years, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky.

Mr. Alexander has stood out in the Senate as one of the few go-to brokers able to deliver big bipartisan deals. He did so in 2016 with the 21st Century Cures Act, which provided more than $6 billion for new medical research, and again this year by steering a major conservation funding law with the help of Mr. Udall, a champion of public lands, and others.

Mr. Alexander said he believed the Senate was the victim of today’s “internet democracy,” where the fire and immediacy of partisan combat draws all the attention and whatever legislation is moving along is pushed into the background in the split-screen capital.

“On one side are the tweets and the confirmation hearings, but on the other side are the Great American Outdoors Act and the 21st Century Cures Act,” he said. “Abraham Lincoln used to write a hot letter and put it in a drawer for 30 days. President Trump has a hot thought and we know about it 30 seconds later.”

“It makes it difficult to work in the middle, which the Senate is supposed to do,” he said.

Perhaps the best measure of how far the Senate has fallen is the dearth of amendments considered on the floor, which is devoted mainly to judicial confirmation votes. Senators used to fight it out over their bills. Now, with senators unwilling to take politically risky votes, even the few pieces of legislation that are produced are typically prepackaged in leadership suites and put on the floor with little opportunity for senators to propose or debate changes.

Ever the Tennessean, Mr. Alexander compared it to “joining the Grand Ole Opry and not being allowed to sing.” But he said the problem was not with the rules; it is with senators who reflexively block their colleagues from bringing up amendments, effectively shutting down the Senate. What is needed, he said, was a change in behavior by senators, who must learn to show the “restraint” necessary to allow debate and the political courage to vote no when they oppose something — rather than stifle it outright.

But Mr. Udall was having none of the idea that a behavioral adjustment was all that was necessary.

“I don’t buy the statement that the rules are fine, that we just need to change the people or we need the people to change themselves or we just need to get better leaders when the institution hasn’t worked for decades,” Mr. Udall said. “This system is broken, and I don’t think there is any doubt of that.”

He has pushed a sweeping top-to-bottom overhaul of a political system he considers corrupted by huge, undisclosed donors and has persuaded all of his Democratic colleagues in the Senate to sign on to it — no easy task. Though it had no chance of advancing in a Republican-controlled Senate, the provisions on tightening campaign finance laws, ending gerrymandering, imposing lobbying restrictions and simplifying voter registration are the types of changes a Democratic-controlled Senate might pursue. Mr. Udall said he believed that bold changes were needed to shake Congress out of stasis and allow lawmakers to attack the challenges facing the country.

“We can right this ship and make it so Republicans and Democrats can work together and do the things we need done for the planet and country,” Mr. Udall said.

Despite their differences, Mr. Udall and Mr. Alexander respect each other after serving together on the Rules Committee and airing their conflicting views. Mr. Udall remembered that Mr. Alexander was the first senator to invite him and his wife to dinner upon his joining the Senate.

Now they will step aside and let others try to rescue the Senate as they watch from outside the institution they revere, despite its obvious failings.

“I’m going home to east Tennessee and I’m going to turn the page,” Mr. Alexander said. “For about 50 years, I have had at least one of the best seats in the house.”





No.48 article:
Do It Yourself Home Repairs

With a few tools and a little know-how, these five home repairs are relatively easy to complete.

As the pandemic forces us to spend our days hunkered down, our homes face far more strain than usual. Faucets bear the brunt of increased hand-washing, toilets get flushed with greater regularity and appliances experience more frequent use. If you have children at home, it’s also possible that your living room now suffers as much abuse as a gym.

Under such increased demands, it’s natural for the home to experience more wear and tear. Plastic and rubber components begin to break down, drains get clogged and boisterous children and pets may damage drywall and window screens.

The good news, especially at a time when you might prefer to limit in-person visits from service professionals, is that many common home repairs are relatively easy to complete, with a few tools and a little know-how.

Whether it’s a steady dribble or a rhythmic drip, a leaky faucet is annoying and wasteful. Fixing the problem usually involves replacing parts inside the handles. But before disassembling the faucet, the first and most important step is shutting off the water, said Hunter Macfarlane, a project expert at Lowe’s, in order to avoid room-soaking geysers.

Locate the two shut-off valves under the sink for hot and cold water and turn them off. Then, turn on hot and cold water at the faucet. “If nothing comes out, you’re golden — you can proceed,” Mr. Macfarlane said. If water is trickling out, however, there’s a problem with the shut-off valves. If that happens, he said, “stop and call a plumber.”

With the water shut off, remove the handles (or handle, on a single-lever model) from the faucet. Usually, they have caps that can be pried off to reveal screws or are held in place by small set screws that can be loosened with an Allen key.

Underneath each handle will be different parts depending on the type of valve the faucet uses: cartridge, ceramic disc or ball. Regardless, Mr. Macfarlane said, remove the top nut with an adjustable wrench and use needle nose pliers to pull out the parts. Take the parts to a home improvement store, he suggested, and ask for help finding replacements that are a perfect match. Then, reassemble the faucet with the new parts in the reverse order and test the repair by gradually opening up the shut-off valves.

When your new pandemic puppy puts a tear in your window screen, it doesn’t have to be an open invitation for flies and mosquitoes. To fix it, remove the screen, which is usually held in place by small clips or tension springs. Then, locate the spline, a thin cord that runs around the outer edge of the screen on one side.

Place the screen on a flat surface with the spline facing up. Find the end of the spline and pry it up with a screwdriver or utility knife, then pull the rest of the spline out of the frame to release the old screen. “Once you get it started, you can usually peel it out with your hands,” said Chris Janiak, the service delivery manager at Hippo Home Care.

Buy a roll of screening material to match the old screen, and cut a piece slightly larger than the frame. Place it over the frame, and begin securing it by pushing the spline back into the channels with a screen rolling tool (if the spline was damaged during removal, buy a new one). Keep the screen taut as you work, “as if you were installing carpet,” Mr. Janiak said, “because you don’t want a saggy screen.”

Once the spline is in place, trim off the excess screening material with a utility knife, and reinstall the screen in the window

Although reaching into the innards of a toilet might seem daunting, most repairs are straightforward. “The great thing about toilets is that they haven’t changed too much over the years — it’s pretty simple,” said Anne Sebestyen, a plumbing repair merchant at the Home Depot.

If the toilet won’t flush, remove the lid from the tank to inspect the chain that runs from the flush lever to the flapper, the circular plug at the bottom of the tank. “A lot of times what’s happening is that the chain might not be hooked to the flapper,” Ms. Sebestyen said. If it is disconnected, reattach it so the flapper lifts when the lever is depressed.

If the toilet won’t stop filling, or it sounds like it occasionally flushes itself, the culprit is usually a leaky flapper, Ms. Sebestyen said.

To fix it, turn off the water shut-off valve behind the toilet and flush the toilet to remove water from the tank. Next, identify what type of flapper your toilet uses. Most toilets use a two- or three-inch flapper — as long as you buy the right size, most replacement flappers will work with any brand of toilet, Ms. Sebestyen said.

Unhook the chain that connects the lever to the old flapper and then unclip the flapper from the bottom of the toilet. Install the new flapper, reattach the chain and turn on the water to test the repair.

Some newer toilets use a canister with a thin rubber washer instead of a traditional flapper, Ms. Sebestyen said. In those toilets, replacement washers aren’t universal, so it’s important to buy a part designed specifically for your brand of toilet.

When a doorknob or tumbling toddler punctures the wall, it’s relatively easy to plug the hole. “You don’t have to have a lot of fancy tools, and there aren’t a lot of technical steps involved,” said Kevin Busch, the vice president of operations at Mr. Handyman, a national home repair company.

Small dings and holes about the size of a nailhead can simply be filled with spackling paste — push the spackling into the hole with a putty knife, scrape it flush, let it dry and then sand it flush with the wall. If a divot remains, add a second coat.

A large hole measuring a few inches or more in diameter requires a more involved repair. Mr. Busch said his preferred method is to cut a square or rectangular patch slightly larger than the hole from a sheet of drywall. Hold it over the hole, and trace the shape of the patch on the wall. Then, use a drywall saw to enlarge the hole along the pencil lines. “You make the hole match your piece, as opposed to trying to make your piece match the hole,” he said.

Add drywall repair clips to the edges of the hole to hold the patch in place, and secure it with screws. Apply mesh drywall tape over the seams. Then, use a joint knife to spread joint compound over the entire repair, while trying to feather the edges of the compound into the surrounding wall. (An alternative to cutting your own drywall patch is to use an adhesive metal drywall repair patch, which simply covers the hole before joint compound is applied.)

“That’s really where the artistry comes in,” Mr. Busch said, noting that making the repair look seamless can be challenging. For best results, complete a few thin coats and sand away excess compound to blend it into the wall before priming and painting.

Feeling the water level rise around your feet when showering or watching the vanity basin fill up when washing hands can be disconcerting. Usually, slow bathroom drains are caused by a buildup of hair and soap scum.

The easiest way to try to unclog them is to pour in a chemical drain cleaner, said Ms. Sebestyen. However, results may be disappointing, and the chemicals can be dangerous.

A more surefire, and safer, way of unclogging drains is to use a plastic hair snake, an inexpensive tool that resembles a large serrated zip tie, to pull out the gunk.

For access to a shower drain, remove the drain cover. For access to a sink, remove the drain stopper. Most stoppers are controlled by a vertical rod and a horizontal rod connected behind the sink by a clip. To release the stopper, disconnect the rods, then unscrew the nut where the horizontal rod enters the drainpipe. Slide the horizontal rod out of the pipe, then simply lift the stopper out of the sink.

Once you have access, pull out as much material as you can with the hair snake and collect it in a bag or on paper towels for disposal, while trying not to get too grossed out. “You’re fishing,” Ms. Sebestyen said. “But what you’re coming back with is not as pretty as a fish.”





No.49 article:
Nothing Lasts Forever

Arsenal’s recent history is a case study in slow, steady decline. With the club now staring at a long climb back to the top, it is also a warning to other elite teams.

Roy Keane was joking. Probably. Arsenal had just lost at home to Wolves, condemning the club to its worst start to a season in almost 40 years. Mikel Arteta’s team had slumped to 14th in the Premier League. It had won only once, domestically, since early October. Still, though, Keane found a silver lining. “They’ll have just about enough to stay up,” he said.

The line was delivered with enough relish to suggest his interest in Arsenal’s possible relegation was not so much sincere concern as an irresistible opportunity to warm the embers of an old rivalry. Keane does not think Arsenal is at risk of losing its place in the Premier League. Of course not. But then the content of the joke was not the part that was supposed to wound. The nature of it was.

Entropy set in at Arsenal a long time ago. Soccer has a heightened sensitivity to sharp, drastic change — the sort that seems to materialize in a day, a week, and then evaporate — but also an ability to remain blissfully numb to the sort that spools out over the span of seasons and years.

The winnowing of Arsenal is a case in point. The latter years of Arsène Wenger’s reign at the club were a case study in slow, steady and, in the moment, almost imperceptible decline: the gradual downgrading of Arsenal first from perennial title challenger to serial F.A. Cup winner, from mainstay in the Champions League to contender for a place and inexorably on, all the way down past hopeful to where it stands now: outsider.

It would be quite wrong, of course, to suggest that nobody noticed. The crowds at the Emirates — before the nine silent months of the pandemic — regularly bubbled with mutiny and protest and dissent. AFTV built an entire media brand on the back of internecine squabbling about the direction of the club. Cubic tons of ink have been spilled detailing each unfurling crisis.

But something about the time lapse disguised the scale of the decline. That each step — from title challenger to top-four regular, top-four regular to top-four contender and so on — seemed shallow made it possible to miss just how far Arsenal had traveled from the peak, and just how steep the journey back to the summit might be.

That is not to say someone should have spotted the direction of travel, that some soothsayer might have been able to surmise that this is where it would end. Such a prediction would have seemed — and to an extent still does, even with Arsenal marooned in its current mediocrity — laughable.

This is not, after all, supposed to happen, not in the age of the superclubs, in an era in which soccer’s hierarchy is set in stone, when the elite enjoy such wealth and power and grace that they have become untouchable.

A vast divide yawns between the elite and the rest, the bridge drawn up to prevent anyone crossing over. Mostly, we worry that strips teams of their right to dream, but it works in both directions: It also means those who have already made it no longer have any reason to worry. Sure, things might go wrong, but for a given value of wrong. In a bad season, you might finish sixth.

And yet Arsenal proves that status is not frozen, not forever. It is not so long ago, after all, since this was the club that served as an emblem for the self-perpetuation of success. Arsenal could always qualify for the Champions League, 20 years in a row, because it always qualified for the Champions League.

But even that did not mean it was immune to the effects of bad decisions. And, over the last decade or so, under the disinterested stewardship of the Kroenke family, there have been plenty of those.

Even Wenger, when we spoke a few weeks ago, wondered if he had stayed — been allowed to stay — too long. When he was replaced, it was by Unai Emery, a perfectly serviceable manager who was wholly unsuited to the job at hand. That unhappy experiment lasted 18 months before Arteta, having learned at the knee of Pep Guardiola, was drafted in.

Off the field, the thinking has been even more muddled. Wenger himself had experimented with remedies. He empowered StatDNA, the analytics firm Arsenal had bought in 2012, but then seemed to move away from its work. When he left, Arsenal seemed to recognize that the job he had done for years was actually several different ones, and (to its credit) recruited specialists to fill each of them.

In came Sven Mislintat, hailed as the visionary behind Borussia Dortmund’s success, who was tasked with turning Arsenal into the home of the best young talent in the world. Then came Raul Sanllehi, with his apparently comprehensive contacts book, with his promise to get Arsenal access to the best agents on the planet and, through them, the best players.

But neither worked well with the other and both, eventually, would leave. Time for another idea: Edu Gaspar, another former player, was made technical director. Arteta was promoted, given wider-ranging responsibilities. Kia Joorabchian, the sort of man you suspect refers to himself as a superagent, seemed to have the inside track on the club’s transfer dealings.

Arsenal’s squad lays bare the lack of coherence behind the scenes. Arteta now has eight (or nine, depending on your definition) central defenders at his disposal, but the club’s record signing, Nicolas Pepe, does not fit neatly into the team. His highest-paid player, Mesut Özil, has been reduced to live-tweeting the team’s games.

How to pick a route out of this mess remains a mystery, particularly under Arsenal’s current ownership. For a while, over the summer, it seemed as if Arteta’s bright promise as a coach might be enough. He had crafted a team that was resilient and disciplined and smart, one that offered a kernel of what an updated, modernized Arsenal could be. He won the F.A. Cup and the Community Shield.

A few months later, that momentum has been surrendered. Arsenal heads to Tottenham on Sunday not only behind its league-leading rival in the table, but trailing Chelsea and West Ham, too. It is, for the time being, the fourth-best team in London.

The coronavirus pandemic has wreaked havoc on its finances. Its roster is an uneasy blend of young promise and fading high-earners. It does not want to sell the former and it cannot move the latter; all it can do is let them run their contracts down. Where the money will come from for the necessary, multiyear rebuild is anyone’s guess.

Arsenal will recover, of course. It will return, though it is likely to be a long and arduous journey. In the meantime, it stands as a warning to the rest of the elite that their place at the top table has not been granted in perpetuity: It is yours only so long as you make (enough of) the right decisions.

And it offers inspiration to all those teams who harbor aspirations of, one day, usurping the established order: to Leicester and to Wolves and to Everton and the rest. The divide can be bridged. Permanence is an illusion. People — clubs — make mistakes, no matter their size or their wealth or their self-perception. Keane was joking, probably, when he said Arsenal would not suffer relegation. In a way, though, it already has.

The sunlit uplands are just a few weeks away. Britain will leave the European Union on Jan. 1 and it will finally be free to … have its own currency? No, that’s not it. Control its own borders? Oh, it did that anyway. Turn Kent, the garden of England, into a gigantic parking lot for trucks? Seems a strange thing to want, but if that’s what you like, great.

Brexit’s impact on soccer will, in all likelihood, not be particularly noticeable in the Premier League. English clubs will, in theory, no longer be able to recruit so liberally from Europe, but most of the players of interest to the teams of the country’s top division will readily meet the criteria to be granted permission to play in it. (Lower-tier teams, and the majority of clubs in Scotland, may feel more of an effect on their recruitment plans.)

Most important, though, was one throwaway line hidden deep in the weeds of the Premier League’s statement on how international transfers will work in this brave new world. English teams will, starting Jan. 1, no longer be able to sign any international player until the player has turned 18.

This, make no mistake, is a problem for the Premier League’s elite, who have spent the better part of two decades trawling around Europe for any fresh-faced teenager with even a scintilla of talent and using their financial muscle to draw them in. They have been allowed to do so because of a European Union exemption in FIFA’s statutes on the cross-border transfers of minors.

Now they will have to stop. England’s clubs can no longer be hothouses of international talent. And — through gritted teeth — that is a good thing. It may, in fact, be the most obvious benefit anyone has seen from Brexit to date.

There are some cases in which teenage players benefit from being allowed to leave their home countries in order to sign for one of the world’s biggest clubs. Players in countries without the infrastructure to nurture their talent, for example, or where their development might be improved by access to better facilities.

For the most part, though, the E.U. exemption is used to pluck Spanish, Dutch, Belgian and French teenagers from academies that have reared them from a young age, and to do it at a knockdown price.

The clubs that lose the teenagers are not reimbursed suitably for the work they have done; instead, they miss out on the premium fee they might receive if the player completed their education at home. The players are, with only a handful of exceptions, treated as assets, rather than individuals, to be fattened and sold at a profit, rather than given a chance to shine.

It entrenches inequality, rather than addressing it, ensuring more and more of the world’s best talent coalesces at certain clubs. English teams have exploited it more than anyone else in recent years (Manchester United currently has three Czech or Slovak goalkeepers in its ranks, all of them teenagers) but must now stop. It would be a benefit of Brexit for everybody if FIFA took this as a chance to clamp down on the loophole, to close it, for everyone else, too.

In its final moments, then, the Champions League group stage might deliver something approaching excitement after all. On Tuesday, one of Manchester United, Paris St.-Germain and RB Leipzig will be eliminated. On Wednesday, both (or neither) of Atlético Madrid and Real Madrid might follow.

It is a welcome coda to what has been a particularly predictable six weeks, an autumn that has made the proposed restructuring of the competition starting in 2024 — adopting the so-called Swiss Model, in which teams would play 10 group games and be ranked on a “giant” league table of all 32 teams — seem, if not appealing, then at least understandable.

The new plan solves severable problems. Well, no: It solves one problem in several ways. It means teams will play more games, and big teams will play more games against other big teams, which means everyone will make more money from broadcast contracts.

But the plan fails on two counts. One: It is not nearly as intuitive as the current system, which is, and this is just pure science, the best format for a sporting competition yet invented, as the World Cup will prove in 2026. And two: It places too much emphasis on prestige fixtures, and too little on drama. It gives the powerful clubs too many chances to fail.

What will make next week special is not that there will be lots of games between glamorous names, but that some of those glamorous names will be in jeopardy. Whatever change comes to the Champions League — and change can be good, too — that should be the priority: increasing the risks, not ring-fencing the rewards.

It is probably no surprise that the death of Diego Maradona touched so many of you, but still, it has been lovely to read all of the memories of and tributes to him that have filled my inbox in the last week. I particularly liked Ron Amato’s conclusion after “bingeing on highlights reels” for a week: “He got the ball, and stuff happened.”

Folu Ogundimu hit upon a question I’ve been thinking about, too: “How do you compare Pelé’s great artistry and influence on soccer to Maradona’s?” I had this thought while I was writing last week’s newsletter: I’m not sure you would say that Pelé changed the game, particularly, in the way that Cruyff definitively did — there isn’t a Pelé role or a Pelé tactic or a Peléan school of thinking. Pelé’s greatness maybe resides, instead, in the sense of mastery, that he had perfected the game.

Thomas Jakobsh made an insightful observation, too, that “the suggestion his mistakes and frailties were the inevitable flip side, or byproduct, of his on-field genius” does not hold water. (This came up on Set Piece Menu this week, as it happens).

“There is a much more prosaic explanation: The world is filled with grifters, con men, unscrupulous agents, hustlers, mobsters. As Jorge Valdano has elegantly explained, Maradona was a victim, perhaps even the perfect victim,” Thomas wrote. “Adulation stalked him since he was 16, and nothing in those first 16 years equipped him for what was to come. For this failure, there is a lot of blame to be shared.”

And I just wanted to respond to Lucas Bongarra, who felt that last week’s piece communicated that Maradona was “not so spectacular, that he was great then, but couldn’t do any of the unbelievable stuff in today’s game.”

That certainly was not what I thought last week’s column said. While I don’t think Diego Maradona transformed soccer, he most definitely transformed what we thought of as possible within it. As for whether he would thrive in the modern game: yes, obviously, he was inordinately talented. Whether modern soccer could produce a Maradona, I’m not so sure. That may be both to its credit and to its detriment.





No.50 article:
And Play Like a Girl She Did

NASHVILLE — When Sarah Fuller stepped onto the field at the University of Missouri on Nov. 28, she wasn’t wearing the jersey she normally wears as a goalkeeper for Vanderbilt University’s women’s soccer team. On that Saturday after Thanksgiving, she was wearing full pads and a Commodores football jersey. Her helmet was emblazoned with the words “Play Like a Girl.”

When Ms. Fuller kicked off for the Commodores at the beginning of the game’s second half, she also kicked through a glass ceiling, becoming the first woman to play in a Power 5 football game. (Other women have played college football, though none at the elite level of the Power 5 conferences, which include the Atlantic Coast Conference, Big Ten Conference, Big 12 Conference, Pac-12 Conference, and Southeastern Conference.)

This wasn’t the culmination of a young woman’s lifelong goal, and it wasn’t a publicity stunt by a team in the midst of a humiliating season. Coronavirus quarantines had left Vanderbilt without a kicker, and Ms. Fuller, a 21-year-old senior from Wylie, Texas, was the team’s best hope. The Commodores hadn’t won a single football game all season, while Vanderbilt Women’s Soccer had just won the Southeastern Conference Division 1 championship, its first title since 1994. And Ms. Fuller was a powerful kicker for the championship team.

Though she’d been practicing with the football team for less than a week, she knew exactly what she was doing: “Let’s make history,” she tweeted before the game.

Derek Mason, then the Commodores’ head coach, said in a postgame news conference that he didn’t tap Ms. Fuller for a date with history: “Listen, I’m not about making statements,” he said. “This was out of necessity.” (Vanderbilt fired Mr. Mason the following day for reasons unrelated to the decision to play Ms. Fuller.)

Necessity. That team needed Sarah Fuller much the way the United States of America needed Rosie the Riveter during World War II.

For days after the game, I found myself thinking again and again of Ms. Fuller, of the confidence in her smile as she held a football helmet emblazoned with a message that was personal for her. (“Play Like a Girl” is a reference to a nonprofit she supports that promotes sports and STEM opportunities for girls.) I thought of the faith the Commodores had put in her — not because a woman had never played college football at that level before, but because Vanderbilt desperately needed a kicker, and Sarah Fuller can kick the holy hell out of a ball.

I thought about the time I tried out for my high school’s football team, about how when I reported for practice, the coach kept shaking his head and saying: “Are you serious? Are you serious?” over and over again until he finally told me where I could pick up my pads.

As it happens, I wasn’t serious, at least not about joining the football team. It was February 1978, not quite six years after Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 was signed into law. The legislation forbade institutions receiving federal funds — virtually all public schools and universities — from discriminating on the basis of gender. I was an aspiring writer, not an aspiring athlete, and I wanted to make everyone believe I was serious about football so I could write a story about it for the school paper. Title IX meant I could play football if I wanted to. Was Alabama ready for a girl football player?

All I can say is thank God Twitter didn’t exist 42 years ago because Alabama was definitely not ready for a girl football player.

I told Ms. Fuller that story on a Zoom call this week and asked if she had experienced the same disbelief as a young woman growing up in the South. Her response was measured. “I would like to say the narrative’s changed a little bit,” she said. “I’d like to say that, and then again there’s people on social media that are like, ‘You’re not supposed to be out there’ and all this stuff. But there’s so much more positive around it now. There’s so many more people pressing and being like: ‘No, this needs to be the norm. This needs to be what we should expect from now on.’”

Ms. Fuller is not bothered by the blowback on social media: “The negative is just a waste of my time,” she said. “I have worked hard to get where I am, and I was in the right spot at the right time to be called up on the football team, and I’ve been working really hard to perform for them. So at the end of the day I don’t care what the negative is.”

Blowback, I am thankful to report, isn’t all Ms. Fuller has gotten. The other Vanderbilt players welcomed her to the team, according to quarterback Mike Wright. “I can 100 percent ensure that Sarah was accepted with open arms,” he told reporters after the game.

Support has also poured in from other athletes and from women in all manner of fields who know something about competing in a man’s world: “Thank you, Sarah, for helping to prove that women and girls belong on every playing field — quite literally,” Hillary Clinton tweeted. In addition to receiving congratulations from every corner of the country, Ms. Fuller was also named an SEC Special Teams Player of the Week and was nominated for the Capital One Orange Bowl-FWAA Courage Award.

If this were a made-for-TV movie, Sarah Fuller would have led the winless Commodores to an unlikely victory. In real life, Missouri shut out Vandy with a final score of 41-0. And in real life Ms. Fuller’s second-half kickoff was her only kick of the game — the Commodores never got into field-goal range. But there’s one part of this imaginary TV script that Ms. Fuller seems to have played with a natural gift: the passionate half-time speech. “I was like, ‘We need to be cheering each other on,’” she told ESPN’s Courtney Cronin. “We need to be lifting each other up. That’s what a team’s about.”

As Mr. Wright noted, “I mean, you can take a leader out of their sport, but at the end of the day she’s still a leader.”

This is the glory of Title IX and all other federal civil rights legislation, especially in parts of the country — here in the American South, for example — where barriers are so often slow to fall. Such laws don’t merely open opportunities for the people whose rights have traditionally been ignored or openly denied. They also help to create a society where hard work and natural gifts can benefit us all. A football team needed Sarah Fuller. Thanks to Title IX, Sarah Fuller had the training and the skills and the pure, heart-lifting confidence to step up.





No.51 article:
How Santa Plans to Keep Everyone Safe This Year

He’s making a list (he’s disinfecting it twice).

The family photo shoot that took place last month at Picture Perfect Photography in Holtsville, N.Y., looked pretty typical for this time of year: Santa, center stage, was surrounded by fake snow and fake trees, with Christmas lights behind him and two small children in front, one crying, the other not. It was a scene brimming with entrepreneurial hustle and parental striving, not to mention masks, disinfectant, signed Covid-19 waivers and temperature checks.

In other words, the spirit of the season has prevailed and much of the Santa Claus industrial complex has adapted to the pandemic. “Everyone is ready to have some joy, happiness and calm,” said Amanda Demasi, 31, the owner of Picture Perfect. “They want the routine of what they did last year.”

Long before Macy’s canceled its Santaland — a popular experience whose indoor crowds are hard to disassociate from superspreader concerns — Santas, and those who hire or work with them, were brainstorming about making the Christmas season safe.

[After a brush with national politics, professional Santa Claus societies are just trying to get through this holiday season.]

“In August I put UV lights in my van so I could sanitize my jacket and bought a temperature gun which I covered in Buzz Lightyear stickers,” said Santa Claus, an impersonator formerly known as Frank Pascuzzi who changed his name legally in 2012.

For the past 25 years, Mr. Claus, 62, of Copiague, Long Island, has dressed up as the jolly man in red. (He also designs fire sprinkler systems and runs a catering company, Santa’s BBQ.) This year he has doubled down on safety measures, but with a festive touch. “I ordered Santa masks that look like my face in case I’m with kids and I need to be masked. I’m doing everything I can to prove I’m safe.”

At another photo shoot outside of an apartment in Bayside, Queens, sat Dana Friedman, 61, a trial lawyer and Santa personality who lives in the neighborhood, with Wesley Chang, 18 months.

“We did photos with Santa last year, and Wesley is at an age where he’s just starting to recognize people,” said Tiffany Chang, Wesley’s mother. “It was really important to us to keep the holiday spirit and the Christmas card tradition going.” Ms. Chang, like others, opted to set the photos outside as a safer choice.

Ms. Chang also did her own photography, snapping over 300 pictures on her iPhone. The family ultimately selected an image of Wesley looking up at Santa from a slight distance. “I like this one because it’s a hopeful distance,” she said. “There’s a connection between them, and it mirrors what’s happening in the world right now.”

Mitch Allen runs Hire Santa, an independent staffing contracting company based in Dallas. He works with over 50 Santas in New York and over 1,000 across the country, and recently put in place a safe Santa program.

“We’ve created 6-by-6 acrylic shields with a bench base that we are sending to our retail clients so there’s protection between Santa and the children,” said Mr. Allen, 49. “We’ve extended mall hours and added more days so people can social distance,” he continued, adding that visits will be conducted six feet apart. “No one will be sitting on Santa’s lap.”

Mr. Allen, who is also working with Bloomingdale’s in Manhattan, added that the department store was scaling back for the season. Last year it had two rotating Santas and 10 elves. This year it will be one Santa and one elf. Both Neiman Marcus and Macy’s are offering digital experiences, the safest option.

Mr. Allen predicts that, because of the pandemic, Hire Santa will book over 10,000 virtual Santa appearances, a huge uptick from the 1,000 he had expected. “It’s been a mad scramble,” he said. “People have a deep need to connect this year. We’re seeing an increase in demand for tradition.”

Some Santas, however, are sitting this season out.

“To me, it is not worth endangering a child, their parents, siblings, grandparents,” said Douglas Allen, 64, an engineer who goes by Christopher Kringle for his seasonal gig and lives in northern New Hampshire. “I will miss it, but let us hope it is only this year. I may do some Zoom and Skype, but I won’t be charging for those.”

Not surprisingly, many Santa gigs have substantially quieted down this year. That’s why Mr. Friedman, the lawyer, who usually donates the proceeds from his appearances to charity, decided to try something new.

He converted a vacant store at the Bay Terrace Shopping Center in Bayside into a pop-up Santa’s Workshop, where visitors peering through the window will be able to watch Santa at work and where parents can snap photos of the experience. The space will have a throne for Santa, the requisite fake snow and trees, and piles of wrapped toys for children of low-income families that are earmarked for local hospitals. The space was donated by Cord Meyer, the development company that owns the shopping center, for Santa’s use this weekend and next.

“Children can see my workshop, see me making toys, and take a photo with me, with them outside, standing next to the window,” he said. “And know Santa is still coming.”





No.52 article:
The Rise and Fall of Carl Lentz, the Celebrity Pastor of Hillsong Church

In the summer of 2017, the singer Justin Bieber abruptly canceled the remainder of a concert tour that had taken him across six continents in 16 months. Mr. Bieber cited fatigue; his fans fretted. But on the tabloid website TMZ, a more hopeful narrative quickly emerged. The 23-year-old singer left the tour because he “rededicated his life to Christ” thanks to a pastor named Carl Lentz, leader of the New York City branch of the global megachurch Hillsong. The pastor and the pop star were inseparable, the gossip site reported. Two days later, the site reported that Mr. Bieber saw Mr. Lentz “as a 2nd father.”

That year Hillsong and Mr. Lentz became a fixture on TMZ, always in flattering items citing unnamed sources. One article reported that at Hillsong, “Justin worships in total peace, and at least feels he’s treated like a regular person.” In another, TMZ said it “got our hands on some video” of Mr. Lentz dunking a basketball in what appeared to be a near-empty gym. “If that doesn’t get you to church nothing will,” the site concluded.

The association with Mr. Bieber catapulted Mr. Lentz, 42, into a new stratosphere of fame, in which he became not just a friend to celebrities but a celebrity himself. He was interviewed by Oprah Winfrey, and showed up on Kourtney Kardashian’s Instagram. He mixed with a jet-setting group of other hip pastors, including Rich Wilkerson Jr., a Miami pastor who performed the wedding ceremony for Kim Kardashian and Kanye West.

But as Mr. Lentz’s profile rose, many congregants felt the focus on fame and cultural power that had helped the church grow was overwhelming its spiritual mission. Last month, it all came crashing down for Mr. Lentz in a scandal that has cast a shadow on one of the most influential megachurches in America. 

On Nov. 4, Brian Houston, the founder of Hillsong, announced he had fired Mr. Lentz, citing “leadership issues and breaches of trust, plus a recent revelation of moral failures” in an email to churchgoers. The day after the announcement, Mr. Lentz confessed on Instagram, where he has almost 700,000 followers: “I was unfaithful in my marriage, the most important relationship in my life.”

In a private video conference with staff members and volunteers at the church’s East Coast branch on Nov. 19, a recording of which was obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Houston described the church’s discovery of “more than one affair. They were significant.” But sexual infidelity was only one piece of the story. Mr. Houston also connected Mr. Lentz’s dismissal to “general narcissistic behavior, manipulating, mistreating people,” as well as “breaches of trust connected to lying, and constantly lying.”

Even in the contemporary era of megachurches, Hillsong stands apart. Founded in Australia under a different name in the 1980s, its great innovation was to offer urban Christians a religious environment that did not clash with the rest of their lives. 

At a time when many Americans have abandoned regular churchgoing, Hillsong attracts thousands of young churchgoers through soaring music and upbeat preaching. If anything, it is cooler than everyday life, with celebrities like the actor and singer Selena Gomez and the N.B.A. star Kevin Durant showing up at Sunday services.

By now, Hillsong is not just a church, but a brand. Hillsong is a look: neutrals, streetwear, body-conscious fashion. And it is a sound, too. The church’s bands have won a Grammy. Their most popular song, the soaring ballad “Oceans (Where Feet May Fail),” has been streamed more than 235 million times on Spotify. And the formula works. The global church now has congregations on six continents, and claims an average attendance of 150,000 people weekly.

But there was another side to Hillsong in its most popular branch in America, according to many current and former attendees: a pastor who was so swept up in ministering to the famous that ordinary congregants felt neglected. A culture that worshiped wealth, while making volunteers cater to leaders as royalty. And a sense that for all the celebrity surrounding the church, its soul was harder to find.

A representative for Mr. Lentz declined to comment on a detailed list of questions about his tenure at Hillsong and his departure. In his Instagram post after his firing, Mr. Lentz wrote, “This failure is on me, and me alone and I take full responsibility for my actions. I now begin a journey of rebuilding trust with my wife, Laura and my children and taking real time to work on and heal my own life and seek out the help that I need.”

Mr. Houston, who is also the global church’s senior pastor, said in a statement that “our heart and care is for our church in Hillsong East Coast and we are saddened that a lot of people are hurting.”

“I want to make it very clear that celebrity culture is not a core value of Hillsong Church,” he continued. “People are a core value. Jesus is a core value.”

The church has contracted with a New York law firm to conduct what Mr. Houston described as an independent investigation of “Carl’s leadership of Hillsong New York, and culture of the church during that time.”

Mr. Lentz, who was raised in Virginia Beach, spent years looking for his calling. He played basketball at North Carolina State University before dropping out. He worked as a greeter at a Gucci store on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles. But in the early 2000s he made his way to Australia, where he attended a school operated by Hillsong Church.

Mr. Lentz interned for Mr. Houston, who founded the church with his wife, Bobbie, and befriended his oldest son, Joel. By 2010, Hillsong was opening its first church in the United States, and Mr. Lentz and his wife, Laura, moved from Virginia to New York to help Joel Houston lead it.

Around this time Mr. Lentz became friends with Mr. Bieber, the young pop star. The two became so close that Mr. Bieber moved in with the Lentz family temporarily in 2014. They were photographed together often: at a recording studio in Beverly Hills, a go-kart racetrack in Los Angeles, and — ruffling feathers in conservative Christian circles — apparently doing shots at a bar in New Zealand.

Mr. Lentz was known for his look: tattoos, edgy glasses and not just style but fashion. Women’s Wear Daily described Mr. Lentz’s “uniform” as a Saint Laurent leather jacket, ripped jeans and a low-cut T-shirt. He often sported a Rolex, too. Pastors and other staff members who arrived at Hillsong wearing traditional suits and ties often gradually started to dress like Mr. Lentz, and even imitate his Southern-inflected accent.

Thanks in part to Mr. Lentz’s high profile, Hillsong’s New York branch appeared to thrive. A church that started as series of small group meetings in apartments across the city began gathering at the downtown concert venue Irving Plaza, then at the larger Hammerstein Ballroom, and then at United Palace, a venue that advertises itself as Manhattan’s fourth-largest theater.

The New York church, which reported a weekly attendance of more than 7,000 people last year, soon started outposts in Montclair, N.J., Norwalk, Conn., and Boston. Those four locations became known as Hillsong East Coast, and the Lentzes were in charge of all of them.

Hillsong’s model is what is known as “seeker sensitive,” a consumer-oriented approach that aims to attract people wary of or unfamiliar with traditional church. Instead of old hymns and dry sermons on Sunday morning, Hillsong and the churches like it offer a slick concert punctuated by a “message” that often sounds more like a self-help seminar. Mr. Houston’s rules for leaders in Australia instruct that a Hillsong sermon “leaves people feeling better about themselves than they came.”

At Hillsong, living well and looking good are sometimes framed as forms of evangelism. Janice Lagata, who was an early attendee at the New York branch, recalled leaders referring to a well-known verse from 1 Samuel that reads in part, “Man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.” The verse is traditionally interpreted as an exhortation to look past appearances. At Hillsong, the verse was “twisted,” Ms. Lagata said: God’s presence is not in doubt, but to attract superficial “man,” it was important to present the best “outward appearance” possible.

Soon the church’s cultural cachet grew outside Christian circles. “I knew people who came to church not because they were Christians but because they thought Carl was hot,” said Heather McClanahan, who worked for the church in 2014 and 2015.

But Mr. Lentz both loomed large and was rarely present.

No pastor of a big church can have personal relationships with every parishioner. But Mr. Lentz was unusually remote, according to current and former congregants.

He seemed to disappear for months at a time, appearing onstage at church only intermittently. His Instagram showed him attending the Super Bowl in Florida, and at Mr. Bieber’s wedding at a South Carolina resort.

When he did appear on Sundays, he rarely mixed with churchgoers. On Sundays, a team of congregants working as volunteers prevented anyone without the right badge from wandering backstage, and only a few had clearance to enter the green room stocked with a lavish catering spread and changes of clothes to fit Mr. Lentz’s increasingly particular tastes.

The church seemed to go out of its way to cultivate a hierarchy of coolness. A reserved seating section for V.I.P.s appeared at the front of the church, and then expanded to take up multiple rows. Ms. Lagata, a former volunteer, said that when high-profile entertainers or sports stars would try to slip into the main seating area, content to worship with ordinary churchgoers, ushers were often instructed to guide them to the special section in front, or to whisk them backstage to meet Mr. Lentz. “The staff built this culture, and made them a big deal,” Ms. Lagata said. “A lot of us felt torn because it doesn’t feel like something Jesus would do.”

Congregants also described a distinct caste system at the church that corresponded to appearance, wealth and fame. “If you’re a pastor, you’re more important than everyone else,” said Josh Canfield, who used to attend the church and sang with the local church’s worship band. “If you’re a celebrity, you’re more important; if you’ve done something to make you famous, or if you’re rich, you’re more important.”

Those who attend Hillsong do not become official members, another way the church has rejected traditional norms to project a more casual, low-commitment style of worship. Instead, those who want to deepen their connections to the community often take on volunteer work.

All churches rely to some degree on volunteer labor to function. But several former Hillsong volunteers described a particularly intense culture of working 12 or more hours a day and then being treated as low-status workers by church leaders.

After the staff enjoyed catered dinners on Saturday evenings at the church offices, volunteers would be summoned from home to come in and clean the kitchen, according to Ms. McClanahan, who worked for the church and was also close with leaders including the Lentzes. Ms. McClanahan recalled attending, along with Ms. Lentz, a birthday party for a pastor’s wife in a private room at a Williamsburg restaurant, and seeing a friend who was a church volunteer sitting at the edge of the room. The volunteer had been enlisted to drive partiers home in the wee hours of the morning, but had not been invited to enjoy the party himself.

Mr. Lentz seemed to surround himself with people primarily concerned with protecting his reputation. Melyssa Zurasky, a volunteer who helped lead regular meetings of congregants for a year, said she heard rumors about Mr. Lentz’s “inappropriate” behavior with women in 2017. Although she had not witnessed any incidents herself, she and her co-leader felt an obligation to report it to staff leaders. Her attempts to meet with a staff leader were brushed off, she said.

Eventually her story reached a staff pastor named Kane Keatinge, Ms. Zurasky said, who told her she was “unfit for leadership” and could no longer teach classes or lead her group. Her co-leader, who had also raised alarms, was removed from his position, too. What happened to her felt like “the opposite of the Gospel” and “like a cover-up,” Ms. Zurasky said. (Mr. Keatinge said he did not recall telling Ms. Zurasky that she was unfit for leadership when he dismissed her.)

Mr. Houston told The Times that leadership looked into the claims in cooperation with legal counsel at the time and found no evidence to substantiate the allegations. But they are being revisited as part of the investigation initiated after Mr. Lentz’s departure.

Mr. Lentz’s dismissal happened quickly. On Oct. 22, a staff member at the church office in Manhattan found intimate text messages on Mr. Lentz’s work computer. Ranin Karim, a jewelry designer in Brooklyn, told The Times that she had been in a relationship with Mr. Lentz since May, and that Mr. Lentz called her in late October to tell her their messages had been discovered.

A week and a half after the messages were found, he was fired.

In his statement to The Times, Mr. Houston described the dismissal as the culmination of long-simmering frustration with Mr. Lentz’s leadership. He had reprimanded Mr. Lentz at other times over the years, he said, including after the pastor was photographed doing shots with Mr. Bieber. He said he had three meetings with Mr. Lentz over the summer to discuss “leadership issues.”

Mr. Houston has been forced to confront scandal before. An Australian commission found in 2015 that he had failed to inform the police about child sexual abuse accusations against his own father, another prominent pastor in Australia. Mr. Houston’s father was accused in the late 1990s of sexually abusing a young boy decades earlier. Mr. Houston pressed his father, who has since died, into retirement when he found out. Soon after, the two churches merged and were renamed Hillsong.

Mr. Lentz, for his part, appears to be moving on. The Lentzes sold their home in Montclair in October. Ms. Lentz resigned from her position at the church, according to Mr. Houston. The couple and their three children have since decamped to Southern California. Paparazzi have photographed Mr. Lentz riding his bicycle, taking an evening stroll with his family and meditating shirtless on the beach.

Like so many other churches, Hillsong NYC has been meeting online since March. One Sunday evening a few weeks after Mr. Lentz’s departure, John Termini, an executive pastor, spoke to the church about its future, acknowledging its recent difficulties. He described Hillsong East Coast as pioneers and “fighters” who had built Hillsong’s presence in America from scratch. “Our general right now, he has gone down,” Mr. Termini told the camera. “I need you to know today, we might not have a general, but we have a king, and his name is Jesus.”





No.53 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy, From Cheese to Player Two

READY PLAYER TWO, by Ernest Cline. (Ballantine, $28.99.) The sequel to “Ready Player One” (which was adapted for film by Steven Spielberg) picks up just days following Wade Watts’s triumph in the OASIS founder James Halliday’s contest.

THE WONDER BOY OF WHISTLE STOP, by Fannie Flagg. (Random House, $28.) Flagg revisits the small Alabama town at the heart of her 1987 novel “Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe,” as the cafe owner’s son — now in his 80s and living in Atlanta — returns to discover old secrets.

HOW DID I GET HERE? A Memoir, by Bruce McCall. (Blue Rider, $27.) The writer and illustrator looks back on a career that took him from advertising to comedy writing for National Lampoon and “Saturday Night Live” to his current work for The New Yorker and other magazines.

AMERICAN CHEESE: An Indulgent Odyssey Through the Artisan Cheese World, by Joe Berkowitz. (Harper Perennial, paper, $16.99.) The author spent a year learning the finer points of cheesemaking in America, visiting caves, restaurants and monger competitions.

COLD MOON: On Life, Love, and Responsibility, by Roger Rosenblatt. (Turtle Point, $15.95.) Now 80, the essayist and memoirist sums up his three core beliefs: Appreciate life, love others and accept responsibility for one another.

I’m the slowest book reader I know, which means that when I commit, it’s a monthslong affair. (If I could get behind the word “curate,” I would say I curate my reading.) The best thing I’ve read recently is THE DOGS OF WINTER, by Kem Nunn. It’s about a legendary, hermetic surfer and the photojournalist who follows him to a mythical spot in California. They barrel along in a van, hike down cliffs, cross gangsters and suffer the consequences of trespassing against people and nature. There is no shortage of violence, depictions at once nonchalant and operatic — a weird, riveting combination. For a novel about surfing, the gnomic pronouncements on waves are kept to a minimum: just enough to confirm that surfers love the ocean the way others are in thrall to men and women, finding elusive moments of perfection, endless heartbreak and the stubborn hope that a single ride can change your life.

—Ethan Hauser, senior staff editor, Style





No.54 article:
A Race Against Time to Rescue a Reef From Climate Change

When Hurricane Delta hit Puerto Morelos, Mexico, in October, a team known as the Brigade waited anxiously for the sea to quiet. The group, an assortment of tour guides, diving instructors, park rangers, fishermen and researchers, needed to get in the water as soon as possible. The coral reef that protects their town — an undersea forest of living limestone branches that blunted the storm’s destructive power — had taken a beating.

Now it was their turn to help the reef, and they didn’t have much time.

“We’re like paramedics,” said María del Carmen García Rivas, director of the national park that manages the reef and a leader of the Brigade. When broken corals roll around and get buried in the sand, they soon die. But pieces can be saved if they are fastened back onto the reef.

“The more days that pass, the less chance they have of survival,” she said.

The race to repair the reef is more than an ecological fight; it’s also a radical experiment in finance. The reef could be the first natural structure in the world with its own insurance policy, according to environmental groups and insurance companies. And Hurricane Delta’s force triggered the first payout — about $850,000 to be used for the reef’s repairs.

The success or failure of this experiment could determine whether communities around the world start using a new tool that marries nature and finance to protect against the effects of climate change. The response to Delta was a first test.

When the Brigade laid eyes on their reef, which runs 28 kilometers south of Cancún and is home to critically endangered elkhorn coral, it looked ransacked. Structures the size of bathtubs were flipped upside down. Coral stalks lay like felled trees. Countless smaller fragments of broken coral coated the seafloor.

On the boat, cement mixers prepared a special paste that snorkelers ferried down to divers who spent hours underwater carefully fastening pieces back on the reef. They used inflatable bags to turn over large formations rolled by the storm and collected fragments to seed new colonies.

The Brigade’s members, mostly volunteers, delighted in the bright damselfish that darted into restored crevices even before the paste had hardened. But there was so much to do and so little time.

At the end of a grueling day, Tamara Adame, a diving instructor and guide, wondered if the tiny team could make a dent. “Is it actually going to make a difference that I’m here all day picking up the pieces?” she asked herself.

Just as a house is insured against fire, or a car against crashes, last year a 167-kilometer stretch of the coast, including the reef, was insured against hurricanes with a wind speed of 100 knots or greater, which is a Category 3 storm.

It didn’t take long for the policy to pay off: Hurricane Delta slammed into the reef in October. The governor of the state of Quintana Roo announced the payout on Facebook Live: 17 million pesos.

Ideally, reefs wouldn’t need such interventions. After all, they’ve been surviving hurricanes for millennia.

But in Quintana Roo, like so many parts of the world, humans have weakened coral, tiny tentacled animals that secrete layers of limestone to build outer skeletons for themselves. Rising sea temperatures, ocean acidification, sewage pollution and overfishing leave coral more vulnerable to hurricane damage.

And hurricanes themselves are becoming more severe because of climate change. This year, the Atlantic has seen the most named storms on record.

Environmentalists and insurance companies behind the effort hope it becomes a model for protecting other far-flung coastlines, whether in Florida or Indonesia, insuring not just coral reefs but also mangroves, salt marshes and other natural barriers to storms. These nature-based defenses protect coastal properties and biodiversity all at once.

“Having this insurance policy is really like water in the desert,” said Efraín Villanueva Arcos, the environment secretary for Quintana Roo, who leads a trust that determines how the money gets spent. Without it, he said, the government would have struggled to fund the repair work.

Some scientists and environmentalists point to philosophical and practical concerns. They protest that the policy reduces the reef to a commodity. It diverts money to private companies that could instead be spent directly to protect the local people and environment. It can’t address longer-term threats from climate change that are killing the reef anyway.

But “if we want to move the needle on how we are impacting nature,” said Fernando Secaira, a specialist on climate risk and resilience at the Nature Conservancy who helped bring about the insurance policy, “we need to move into economic terms.”

“Brigade, we will try to save as much as we can,” Dr. García Rivas wrote on the group’s WhatsApp chain, trying to rally her exhausted team for the next long day. “Each fragment is a possible colony, keep it up!!!!!!!”

Locals had volunteered boats, food and themselves, but she needed more of everything. And she figured they had only one short month to complete the first phase — repairing, stabilizing and collecting broken corals — before those pieces would be too far gone to save. And while she heard the insurance money was coming, how quickly would it arrive?

To cover immediate costs for fuel and food, Mr. Secaira of the Nature Conservancy had approved $1,000 from a different fund, and Dr. García Rivas fronted money from her own pocket. “Luckily I don’t have kids to feed, so I had some savings,” she said.

The Brigade was created in 2018. Its members joined as volunteers, but the idea was that if a hurricane hit, money from a payout would help tide them over while tourists stayed away.

The Covid-19 pandemic, however, complicated everything. Tourism had been dead for months before Hurricane Delta struck, but just as reef restoration began, visitors started trickling back. That meant some Brigade members, such as Ms. Adame, the diving instructor, suddenly had clients again. “I couldn’t refuse the work,” she said. “I really needed the income.”

She could spend only two days with the Brigade. In fact, of the Brigade’s 36 members, less than half were participating on any given day. 

The depleted volunteers completed 11 days of restoration work before a new hurdle stopped them: Another hurricane, Zeta, began hurtling toward the Gulf of Mexico. It made landfall as a Category 1 storm — not enough for a payout, even though locals said it lashed the coast harder.

Then, Zeta was followed immediately by even more bad weather, keeping them out of the water for an agonizing 13 days. Brigade members feared their work would be lost.

As soon as the port reopened, they sped to the areas of the reef where they had spent the most time on repairs. Parts were so battered that Dr. García Rivas had trouble recognizing where she was.

“I felt powerless,” she said, “confused by so much disaster.” But closer inspection showed that while the reef’s periphery was a mess, some of their work in the center had withstood the second hurricane. “When I saw the fragments that we had glued still standing in place, I had a feeling of hope,” she said.

They got to work again.

Back in 2015, Kathy Baughman McLeod, who was then director of climate risk and resilience at the Nature Conservancy, asked a profound question: Could you design an insurance policy for a coral reef?

On its face, the idea might have seemed absurd. For starters, nobody owns a reef, so who would even buy the policy? And it’s not easy assessing the damage to something that’s underwater.

But Ms. Baughman McLeod, along with Alex Kaplan, then a senior executive at Swiss Re, a leading insurance company, came up with workarounds. First, the policy could be purchased by those who benefit from the reef — in this case, the state of Quintana Roo, which is also home to Cancún and Tulum and has a tourism economy estimated at more than $9 billion.

“Without that reef, there’s no beach,” Mr. Kaplan said. “Without that beach, there’s no tourists.”

Second, rather than basing the payout on reef damage, it could be triggered by something far easier to measure: The storm’s wind speed. The stronger the wind, the worse the assumed damage to the reef.

The idea of putting a dollar value on a reef or ecosystem by identifying a “service” that it provides has become increasingly popular. For example, coastal salt marshes protect from flooding — offering economic benefits on top of environmental ones. Peat bogs store vast amounts of carbon, keeping it out of the atmosphere where it would worsen global warming. And coral reefs reduce the energy of waves by 97 percent, protecting coastal properties.

But this notion of “ecosystem services” is controversial in some circles.

“It’s a popular concept because it commodifies nature and it allows people to put a dollar value on nature,” said Terry Hughes, who directs a center for coral reef studies at James Cook University in Australia. “But it’s very anthropocentric and it’s certainly not about protecting nature for nature’s worth. It’s almost kind of selfish.”

If you look at it from the reef’s perspective, Dr. Hughes said, hurricanes are the least of its problems. Climate change, coastal pollution and overfishing are far greater threats.

But given the scale of the planet’s intertwined environmental emergencies — not only climate change but the collapse in biodiversity — conservationists say they must be pragmatic. More than a million species are at risk of extinction, including many coral species.

And in Puerto Morelos, monetizing the reef had the almost ironic consequence of helping some in the community understand that it is actually invaluable. “My experience with the Brigade has changed my thinking so much,” said Alejandro Chan, who takes tourists sport fishing and snorkeling. “I have to help the reef.”

Still, any money governments spend on insurance premiums is money that can’t go toward reducing greenhouse emissions or directly helping people prepare for the next storm, said Zac Taylor, a research fellow at K.U. Leuven, a university in Belgium, who studies the intersection of finance and climate risk.

Dr. Taylor also questioned whether insurers will keep offering such policies if the bigger threat, climate change, which generates worsening hurricanes, isn’t brought under control. “Will they stick around?” Dr. Taylor asked.

By early December, even the corals broken by Zeta were barely healthy enough to save. Still, the Brigade pressed ahead. So far its members have braced or cemented almost 12,500 fragments, and turned over or stabilized more than 2,000 larger coral formations.

“Champion Brigade!!!!!” Dr. García Rivas cheered on WhatsApp.

But their efforts exposed the scale of the challenge in responding to reefs after hurricanes. They exhausted themselves patching up vital but limited sections. Another team in Cancún performed a much smaller intervention there.

And the insurance money itself faced delays that hindered the work. It took two or three weeks for the government to receive the payout, and then almost another month for the trust, made up of government officials along with a representative from the tourism industry, to decide how to distribute it.

“If the insurance money had been available in a timely manner,” said Claudia Padilla, a researcher at the National Fisheries and Aquaculture Institute in Mexico, which developed the Brigade’s hurricane response protocols and trained its members, “the results of the rescue effort could have been greatly multiplied.”

Still, the money will be put to its intended purpose of restoration, funding longer-term projects like seeding of new colonies and replenishment of reef biodiversity. And Mr. Secaira of the Nature Conservancy believes that the rest of the world will use Quintana Roo as proof of concept.

Indeed, as the Brigade was at work in Puerto Morelos, a bill in Guam’s Legislature sought to evaluate insuring a reef there. Training is underway in other locations in Mexico, Belize and Honduras.

But it won’t be easy. The training in Honduras had to be postponed when the country was hit by two hurricanes, Eta and Iota, within just two weeks. They were the Atlantic Ocean’s 28th and 30th named storms of the year.





No.55 article:
Should I Stop Speaking to My Trump-Supporting Friends?

Am I morally bound to confront friends who support President Trump or to stop speaking to them? I find it untenable that anyone could support such a deficient person. He is xenophobic and a liar. He admires authoritarian rulers, lacks self-control and is an inciter of division in our country. He serves his own self-interest to the point of complete indifference to anyone, including his supporters, as his Covid-19 response and self-dealing clearly demonstrate. I cannot find tolerance for the “other side.” To date, however, I’ve just kept quiet and avoided the subject with people I know are beyond convincing. Is that adequate? Mimi B. Osiason

In a democracy, we the people are supposed to be guiding the ship of state together. To do that, we need to be able to talk to one another, which suggests that engagement, rather than confrontation, can be a civic act. It can also be an act of friendship, because one thing we want to do is to save our friends from making serious mistakes. Just bear in mind that listening in these circumstances is as important as talking.

The polarized state of our politics, alas, means that people are so taken up with their political identities that they’re unable or unwilling to consider the views of those outside their political tribe. Conversations on these topics tend to turn up the temperature while dimming the lights. And, given your principles, it’s easy to assume that your Trump-loving friends are morally defective — that they don’t take cruelty, xenophobia, intemperance, narcissism and dishonesty with due seriousness.

Perhaps that’s the case. But perhaps the gulf between you and these friends arises from differences in your epistemic capacities — the ability to gain reliable information. Our beliefs depend not just on our own brains but also on the social worlds we live in. One way of capturing this truth is what some philosophers have called the extended-mind hypothesis: Our minds don’t simply repose between our ears (the argument goes) but extend into the world around us, a world that may or may not include Fox News, Parler, talk radio, a voluble workplace colleague who has always seemed marvelously in the know, filtered Twitter feeds and the like. What’s obvious is that people can be epistemically disadvantaged by gaining their beliefs from social networks that are radically unreliable. We get many of our false beliefs in the same way we get true ones: by listening to the views of people we trust. You can be partially responsible for being in an unreliable network if there are signs that something is wrong and you don’t examine the possibility that it’s misleading you. But the misjudgment here may not reflect bad moral values.

Once the fog of political warfare that surrounds an election has cleared, we could discover that most of our fellow citizens are not irredeemably indifferent to Trump’s evident vices; that whatever explains their attachment to the president, it is not that they repudiate the values he does not respect. Our tribal prejudices are at their worst in moments like these. Let’s hope we can recover some measure of equilibrium and move, however stumblingly, toward a modus vivendi that entails working to see the best in one another and not just the worst. Only if we learn to overcome our fiercest prejudices can we take up the business of steering the ship of state as a people united despite our disagreements.

I am applying to medical school, and on certain applications there is a question asking applicants to describe whether they identify as part of certain minority communities, including the L.G.B.T.Q. community. I have always publicly identified as heterosexual, yet I have bisexual tendencies that I’ve never acted on or told anyone about. But I know that identifying myself as bisexual will diversify me as an applicant and perhaps increase my chances of acceptance. Does privately questioning my own sexuality qualify me as part of the L.G.B.T.Q. community? Or must I be out as bisexual in order to put it down on my application? Would I be taking away opportunities from students whose L.G.B.T.Q. status is more central to their identities? Name Withheld

The Association of American Medical Colleges, which has worked with its member medical schools to design the application form they use, speaks of the importance of securing access to underrepresented minorities and specifies that “underrepresented in medicine means those racial and ethnic populations that are underrepresented in the medical profession relative to their numbers in the general population.” I don’t know that you’ll get a bump up for being bisexual, notionally or actually. Still, because this question evidently invites personal comments, you can, if you wish, explain your situation just as you have here and let the institution decide.

I work as the executive director of a nonprofit organization. Like so many, we are struggling through the pandemic with fewer resources, fewer staff members and even less certainty about the future. In the spring, I implemented belt-tightening with all our staff members, beginning with my own salary. I’ve taken a sizable cut because of base-salary reduction and a partial furlough.

Recently, a board member and his wife dropped by my office with a beautiful flower arrangement with an envelope attached, containing a wonderful note of encouragement and several thousand dollars in cash. This board member does not have a conflict of interest, is not expecting a better board position — no ulterior motive. They’re well off and wanted to recognize my work. But my conscience is on high alert. A gift only for me when everyone here is working hard and is paid less than me to begin with? I feel conflicted about the gift and am strongly considering donating it to the organization. 

At the same time, I want to honor the intentions behind this very kind gesture. Our organization does not have a policy against receiving gifts, and the money would be a help to me and my family. Please help me sort through what to do. Name Withheld

A gift of this sort can result in your having a changed relationship with this donor and trustee; it is now, in a very personal way, a relationship between benefactor and beneficiary. Your donors’ gifts contribute to your salary already, of course, but that’s mediated by the formal structures of the institution and the law. A direct gift of this kind has a different meaning. It was doubtless meant to convey gratitude and respect, but it’s also, at least potentially, a way of turning you into a personal protégé. So you need to think about what accepting the gift means for your future interactions with this person.

Assuming you’re OK with a somewhat changed relationship, you’re still left to contend with the issue you raise about equity. Is it fair that this gift goes to you and not to other staff members who could use it even more? Because board members typically have personal relationships only with senior management, they are not likely to have the kinds of bonds with the rest of the staff that lead to this kind of generosity. The truth is that philanthropic gifts generally aren’t based on need; there’s almost always a more deserving recipient. The money you give to the local art museum is money that could vaccinate children and save lives in a poor country far away. Whatever the case is for giving money to the museum in those circumstances, it can’t be that the museum has the greater need. That philanthropy is mostly not guided by a pure calculus of utility is one reason for having a public system to address the basic needs of all citizens.

Still, a gift is a gift, and — if you choose to accept it — you are free to do with it what you will. Your scruples suggest that spending the money on your own family may not reflect your moral priorities. So, knowing the challenges facing your less well-off employees, you could, as you say, use the money to help the organization. Because your gift will be tax-deductible, it’s possible that some part of the money may, in fact, end up in your pocket.





No.56 article:
Meritocracy, Silicon Valley and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

In his book “The Tyranny of Merit,” Michael J. Sandel makes powerful points about how our culture fetishizes credentials, but Arlie Russell Hochschild’s review (Nov. 22) ultimately misses the central point.

I appreciate Sandel’s thesis from three perspectives (despite myself being overeducated with two graduate degrees I didn’t use). First, for decades I was an English teacher at independent schools, and some of my brightest students, many of them on financial aid, were aiming to be first-generation college students. Second, in retirement I now teach adults prepping for their high school equivalency tests, adults who are working hard academically on top of having family and job demands. These people often teach me more than I teach them. Finally, I have a friend who’s a retired machinist with only an eighth-grade education and, in the face of a nuclear holocaust, I would want to be on his island. He would keep me alive — plus we have argued over Donald Trump and remain friends.

But Hochschild misses Sandel’s point when, at the end of her review, she writes: “So now’s a good time for both sides to sit down for a very serious talk, with ‘The Tyranny of Merit’ required reading for all.” Why have a presumption that reading Sandel’s book — or any book — is necessary to have “a very serious talk”? Once, cozy in my overeducated world, I might have agreed. But my machinist friend would laugh at the suggestion, as now do I.

James Berkman Boston

♦

To the Editor:

Michael J. Sandel’s pessimistic assessment of this country is based on the assumption that all young people want to go to college and that those who don’t face a bleak future. But neither is true.

Freshman enrollment is down more than 16 percent from last year, according to the National Student Clearinghouse Research Center, and the top 25 percent of those with only a high school diploma earned more on average than the bottom 25 percent of college graduates, according to a new study from the Manhattan Institute.

In overlooking the many forms that meritocracy takes, Sandel perpetuates the myth that vocational education is a dead end.

Walt Gardner Los Angeles

A Cut AboveTo the Editor:

I am writing to express the highest praise for Virginia Heffernan’s review of Adrian Daub’s “What Tech Calls Thinking” (Nov. 22).

Rarely does a reviewer convey her opinion of a book’s strengths and weaknesses with such grace and acerbity. From Heffernan’s use of “aperçus” to the fitting conclusion regarding Daub’s elephant-in-the-room lack of attention to Silicon Valley’s approach to women in and out of its ranks, the review also conveys the pernicious self-delusions rampant in tech.

On a final and purely personal note, I would not like to find myself in a verbal knife fight in or out of a dark alley with Heffernan. I’d be bleeding from multiple wounds before I perceived the first touch.

Jeff RossPasadena, Calif.

To the Editor:

As an old white woman participating in a daily peaceful vigil since June for George Floyd and Black Lives Matter, I was fascinated by Michael P. Jeffries’s review (Nov. 15) of “The Dead Are Arising,” by Les Payne and Tamara Payne.

I cut out the last three paragraphs to keep reminding myself why I and a handful of new friends are continuing this vigil along Broadway in our white city.

Christfriede LarsonPortland, Ore.

To the Editor:

As my bookshelves reveal, I too read Joy Williams in the Vintage Contemporaries paperbacks the way A. O. Scott mentions doing in his essay on Williams (Nov. 22). I too found that the series of wildly disparate titles felt curated just for me, as though by algorithm. And I was delighted to learn that I am not the only one who has retained them, perhaps out of some weird fetish. I routinely bought the books as they were released. The editor who chose these eclectic works understood me and the zeitgeist of the 1980s, and the graphic designer did too.

Leslie Miles Bethesda, Md.





No.57 article:
The Epicenter

The Epicenter

She wears a red wig and a black dress she sewed herself. It hugs her body as she moves about the stage, lip-syncing love songs in Spanish to a room filled mostly with absence.

It is late on March 9, and Yimel Alvarado is at her regular Monday gig, a nightclub above a Mexican restaurant in the Corona section of Queens. This is where she feels at home, where the usually robust crowds of gay and transgender patrons applaud her teasing banter.

Drink up, she often says, as fans toss money at her feet. The night is getting away.

But Yimel is not herself tonight; hasn’t been for days. Her Cleopatra-like eyeliner only accentuates the exhaustion in her gaze. Just a cold, she says.

At some point, the concerned bar owner reaches for the tequila. The two friends knock back shots while, nearby, a few spare patrons kiss and huddle for cellphone selfies.

The same denial and dread hover over the densely populated neighborhoods beyond the restaurant’s door, inside apartments subdivided by drywall and need, up and down the bustle of Roosevelt Avenue.

In one building, an immigrant from Ecuador worries about the many relatives living in her cramped apartment, including her frail parents. A family member, her brother-in-law, has a persistent cough.

In another, a couple from Bangladesh gets a call from their daughter in her Ivy League dorm, who warns that they risk illness by going to work and sharing close air with strangers — her mother at La Guardia Airport, her father in his yellow cab. She begs them to stay home. They do not.

But an Uber driver is so haunted by the coughing of two recent passengers that he has stopped picking up fares. Thirty years ago in Nepal, he fled his life as a Buddhist monk, tossing his red robe under a tree. Now he prays as he disinfects his black Toyota.

Around the corner, a Thai chef who commutes by subway to Manhattan has been sending worried texts from work to his less-concerned partner at home. He frets about the growing number of confirmed cases in the United States.

Is it here? The deadly coronavirus?

At Elmhurst Hospital a short walk away, an emergency-room doctor has noticed a surge of patients with flulike symptoms. Now there is confirmation of what she and her colleagues knew was inevitable: the hospital’s first case of Covid-19, the life-threatening illness caused by the coronavirus.

It is here.

But messages conflict. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has declared a state of emergency, while President Trump continues to downplay the virus. A “containment area” is about to be established in the small city of New Rochelle, while a dozen miles south the hurried hustle of Manhattan flows uninterrupted.

Soon, this pinpoint on the map of Queens, where so many cultures converge, will become the global epicenter of the kind of health crisis not seen in the United States in a century. Very soon.

For now, the weary-eyed Yimel Alvarado continues her performance, fortified by little more than the dose of tequila. Determined but unwell, she mouths a ballad in which a woman addresses the wife of her lover.

Ahora es tarde, señora

Ahora es tarde, señora

Too late now, señora.

Just about two miles separate the 69th and 103rd Street stops on the 7 train in northern Queens. Yet beneath its elevated tracks sprawls the world.

Within this span are five neighborhoods in the Queens jigsaw — Woodside, Elmhurst, East Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Corona — whose combined histories reflect the evolution of New York: the Dutch and English settlements and the fields of wheat and corn, the railroad lines and the sprouting developments, the garden apartments for white Protestants only and the ash heaps immortalized in “The Great Gatsby.” Then housing for the masses, the faces ever changing.

To walk down Roosevelt Avenue now is to journey from the Himalayan peaks to the arid Mexican plains, to hear the music of intermingled languages and dialects, all within three dozen short blocks.

In the perpetual dusk cast by the subway tracks above, vendors sell woven baskets from Ecuador and leather sandals from Mexico, while Indian grocers display their produce and men carry skinned goats to halal butchers. Dentists and doctors offer their services from narrow storefronts, as do self-proclaimed healers, the curanderos, found among the statues and candles in religious-goods stores, available for counsel.

The lively rhythms of the street follow the percussive beat of cumbia, the thump of reggaeton, the call to prayer. Fueling it all is an international buffet of the sizzling meat tacos of southern Mexico, the steamed dumplings of Nepal, the Indian curries, the Peruvian ceviche, the Colombian buñuelos.

And everywhere, people. Many work the service jobs that animate the city: driving, cleaning, cooking, building — up at first light to line the subway platforms, hard hats and coffee cups in hand. Many are distrustful of authorities, or vulnerable to exploitation, or simply too afraid to call in sick.

By the tens of thousands, they spill from brick tenements with narrow courtyards, from small houses with grapevine gardens, from basement quarters with little natural light. If lucky, they live with family or friends; if not, they live among strangers, paying for a bed or maybe just a couch.

Imperfect conditions for social distancing. Perfect for contagion.

Yimel Alvarado lies sick in the gloom of her tiny bedroom, a crucifix on the wall above her head. Pink satin curtains are drawn against the late-afternoon light, five days after her cabaret performance in the upstairs lounge at El Trio restaurant.

Since then, a low-grade panic has taken hold in the city outside her modest Jackson Heights apartment. The subway turnstiles are being disinfected twice a day. The Diocese of Brooklyn has suspended Sunday Mass obligations for Catholics. The New York Police Department has alerted all of its precincts that Covid-19 is now categorized as a pandemic.

Capt. Jonathan Cermeli, the commanding officer of the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, cannot believe the abrupt change in events. Only a week ago, at a 12th birthday party for his son, friends were discussing an issue that seemed entirely unrelated to their lives.

You guys hear about this virus?

Now Mayor Bill de Blasio has declared a state of emergency. His office will say it was in frequent contact with the city’s hospitals and regularly briefed elected officials and the public. But two local City Council members, Francisco Moya and Daniel Dromm, complain of receiving little guidance from City Hall.

“We felt like we were on our own,” Mr. Moya will later say.

Yimel, 40, is also on her own.

Like so many undocumented immigrants, she has no health insurance, no primary-care physician to call. She has been refusing offers of help from her roommates — who see her as their nurturing mother — and has barely let on to family in Mexico that she is sick. She has relied on prayer and citrus-infused tea to treat what she has been sarcastically calling her blessed cough.

But now the woman always up for a sassy selfie is not answering her phone, and her text about a cough has spooked her younger sister in the Bronx, Olivia Aldama, who senses what this means: Her beloved Chiquis is sick.

Olivia, 34, finishes her shift at a dry cleaners and hurries by subway to Jackson Heights. She enters Yimel’s darkened bedroom to find her sister moaning in her sleep, her cellphone buried in the sheets. Her breathing is labored, her lips parched, her tongue like white paper; she needs to go to the hospital.

I’m here, Olivia says, hugging her. I’m here now.

Olivia may not know everything about the sibling in her arms. That Yimel slept on the streets when she arrived in New York about 20 years ago. That she was a sex worker, enduring verbal and physical attacks under the elevated tracks in Jackson Heights. That she may still be.

What Olivia knows is that her sister was identified at birth as a boy — a gender that Yimel later realized did not fit, but which she and her family still discuss as part of her past.

Growing up in Tlapa de Comonfort, a city in the mountains of southern Mexico, the child preferred playing dress-up with the family’s four daughters, incurring the wrath of their father. Tensions built up over the years until, one day, brimming with drink and shame, the man pulled out a knife and shouted, Kill yourself!

The only choice was to flee. But before being spirited across the border by smugglers, the teenager joined her mother in the cool of the Basilica of Guadalupe in Mexico City. There, the mother entrusted her own to the Virgin.

The new immigrant eventually found acceptance in Jackson Heights among gay and transgender people who had also fled intolerance in Latin America, and blossomed into Yimel Alvarado, who found her calling as an entertainer in the gay clubs around Roosevelt Avenue.

She has also become the bawdy, big-hearted matriarch of what is known as the Familia Alvarado, a tight-knit group whose members she has fed, clothed, counseled and often taken in. Over her apartment door hangs a sign that reassures: We Are So Good Together.

In recent years, though, Yimel has been going out less, gaining weight and drinking more. She often stays here in her bedroom, creating her glamorous outfits at a sewing machine, or sketching dress designs in a notebook. She also jots down comforting aphorisms she comes across.

Before giving up, try

And before dying, LIVE

Now, as Olivia struggles to help her sister sit up, a young Salvadoran man knocks on the door. He has been living in the apartment, sleeping on the couch, since Yimel learned that he was robbed at a homeless shelter.

Together they dress and guide the delirious Yimel toward the stairs. She sits and begins to ease herself down the steps, one by one — only to stop, exhausted.

A taxi is called. But the driver, suspecting that the woman slumped on the stairs has the virus, apologizes and leaves. In a fleeting moment of clarity, Yimel speaks: Call an ambulance.

The ambulance carrying another possible Covid case pulls up to the trauma entrance of Elmhurst Hospital. The salmon-colored colossus traces its roots back nearly two centuries to a penitentiary hospital on what is now called Roosevelt Island, which treated the incarcerated, the poor and the neglected long before this 11-story complex opened in 1957.

Others might see a drab municipal hospital short on amenities, tending to mostly the disadvantaged and uninsured. But Dr. Laura Iavicoli, 49, considers her safety-net hospital to be “the most magical place on earth,” with a skilled, committed staff and a diverse mix of patients who offer fresh challenges every day.

But never a challenge as daunting as this deadly virus, which first appeared late last year in the Chinese city of Wuhan, 7,500 miles from New York. Now it is here in Queens, where the recent confirmation of coronavirus cases at the hospital foretells dark days ahead.

At first the hospital considered itself prepared, with an interactive staff exercise about the virus in late January, a series of routine drills and access to four negative-pressure isolation rooms in the emergency department. Assumptions took hold, including that the virus would behave like other contagious diseases the hospital had prepared for but never seen, such as Ebola.

But assumptions are toppling. Influenza-like illnesses are rampant, while coronavirus cases are ticking up. And with access to testing severely limited, doctors are sending many patients, including some who may have Covid, home to isolate.

Hospital administrators are researching the 1918 influenza pandemic, communicating with medical experts around the world and meeting every night in a conference room to review models and statistics. But Dr. Iavicoli has become convinced that this virus cannot be outsmarted.

The hospital’s initial isolation plan — based on protocols from several countries and agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control — hinged on yet another assumption: that the coronavirus reveals itself with fever, coughing and respiratory distress. Now doctors are realizing that diarrhea and malaise can also indicate Covid, which means that some contagious patients may have been inadvertently missed.

Every day, more emergency department space needs to be repurposed as isolation zones. The area reserved for treating coughs and minor cuts is now Covid. The critical care area, originally with seven beds, will soon have 20, all for Covid.

Green oxygen hoses snake across the floor, while blue air-filter hoses rise to the ceiling. Sick people cluster at the entrance, slouch in chairs, lie on stretchers along the dull pink walls.

Now paramedics in protective suits wheel in another: Yimel Alvarado.

She is placed on a bed in the hallway, next to a young woman holding her stomach and crying out in agony. Briefly snapped from her delirium, Yimel looks over with evident compassion, but soon she is gone again, speaking in the language of hallucination as she stares at the hospital monitors in the corridor:

That’s why I don’t watch television. They keep changing the channel.

Without the oxygen she received in the ambulance, Yimel becomes weaker. A sip of water causes her to convulse in coughs, sending Olivia running for help. A nurse rushes over to check the oxygenation of Yimel’s blood.

Several hospital workers are soon gathered around Yimel. First in English, then in Spanish, they ask: Have you traveled? Have you had a cough? Have you had a high fever? For how long?

Olivia repeats the answers she heard her sister give to paramedics in the ambulance: No. Yes. Yes. Four days.

Yimel is wheeled beyond a set of glass doors. Hours later, a doctor emerges to inform Olivia that her sister is in critical condition with pneumonia and would be dead if she hadn’t been brought to the hospital.

Five days ago, Yimel was performing at a nightclub; now she is in intensive care. By morning she will be unconscious, intubated and encased in a plastic tent.

Earlier on this Saturday, Mr. Trump asserted that the country’s relatively low number of coronavirus-related deaths — about 50 so far, he said — was because of “a lot of good decisions.” Tomorrow he will describe the virus as “something that we have tremendous control of.”

But these upbeat assertions belie what is being experienced at Elmhurst Hospital, where Covid cases and flulike illnesses continue their ominous rise. Near midnight, Dr. Iavicoli talks by phone with two other emergency department supervisors, Dr. Stuart Kessler and Dr. Phillip Fairweather, to assess the damage of another harrowing day.

Dr. Iavicoli, who has expertise in emergency management, recommends an aggressive requirement that emergency department staff wear full personal protective equipment — gown, gloves, goggles and N95 mask — at all times.

The three doctors agree. Now the entire department is officially a “hot zone,” based on a new assumption: Everyone is likely to have Covid.

A stillness settles over the city. Events by which New York measures time — the St. Patrick’s Day Parade, for one — have been canceled. Schools for more than a million students are closed. Religious services are suspended. Transit hubs are empty. Skyscrapers are vacant. Broadway is dark.

Coursing through the quiet is a palpable anxiety, a collective bracing for the blow to come.

In the upstairs apartment of a two-family house in Woodside, Dawa Sherpa, the Uber driver from Nepal, tries to scrub away what he cannot see but fears is present.

He cleans the stairwell, where the shoes of his three sons, 18, 13 and 6, form a neat row up the steps. He cleans the bedrooms, the kitchen and the living room, which features a torn map of the subway system and a large Buddhist shrine with three key figures: Shakyamuni Buddha, Guru Rinpoche and Chenrezig.

On the altar sit seven silver bowls that are filled with water in the morning and emptied at night, a silver chalice brimming with an offering of amber-colored tea — and a large bottle of hand sanitizer.

Dawa is 50, short and husky, his black hair flecked with gray. Born in a speck of a farming village on a mountaintop in the Himalayas, he moved with his family to Kathmandu, then was sent at the age of 10 to a Buddhist monastery, where life became a spiritual boot camp of prayer, chores and study. Failure to know one’s lessons could result in a beating.

When he was about 20, he jumped over a monastery wall to see what was going on in the world. He never returned.

The former monk traveled to China to help his father’s import business, then to Japan, where he worked at a Toyota factory, and then, in 1996, to the United States, which he understood to be “a freedom country.”

He gravitated toward Jackson Heights, married Sita Rai, a woman he had met at a wedding in Kathmandu, and began assembling a familiar immigrant résumé: clerk in a school-supply store; cook in a Chinese restaurant; driver for a manufacturing firm; delivery man for Domino’s Pizza; taxi driver, working a 12-hour overnight shift.

Four years ago, Dawa switched to driving for Uber, shuttling customers around the tristate area in his black Toyota S.U.V. In recent weeks, he has listened constantly to the news radio station 1010 WINS in his car for updates on the pandemic’s progression.

Then, two weeks ago, two customers coughed in his back seat. He drove home and systematically wiped down the seats, the door handles, everything, in mists of Lysol spray. He hasn’t driven for Uber since.

And it may be a trick of the mind, but Dawa does not feel 100 percent.

Not a half-mile away, dozens of families flock to a commercial stretch along 73rd Street, a few steps from Roosevelt Avenue. This is the Little Bangladesh section of Jackson Heights, a medley of groceries, restaurants and shops that cater to immigrants from Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, Sylhet.

Gone for now are the days when men discussed news events in Bengali over samosas and tea, while women browsed the saris in the boutiques and children made difficult selections in the sweet shops. Gone is the sleepy air, redolent of spices.

Instead, uneasiness has set in, as people mill together in a determined search for food and supplies. With schools closed, children will be staying home, taking classes online for who knows how long. So mothers heap bags of rice and tins of oil into the family cars, while fathers carry out slabs of meat to store in newly bought freezers, as if stocking up for a lengthy siege.

All around, people are falling sick. A sergeant who analyzes crime statistics for Captain Cermeli at the 110th precinct. A jeweler who helps to run a soccer league in Corona. The pastor of St. Bartholomew Roman Catholic Church in Elmhurst.

Along and around 73rd Street, lines snake outside grocery stores, and some pharmacy shelves have been picked clean. The same scene is playing out in other areas nearby: Little India, Little Colombia, Little Manila. People who have known faraway conflict are steeling for war.

In a brick building in Corona, 11 members of an extended family from Ecuador, young and old, live in a three-bedroom apartment. Two are sick: Rosa Lema, 41, with a fever, and her brother-in-law, with a violent cough.

Now, late this afternoon — on a day when Mr. Cuomo announces a shutdown for much of the state — Rosa is notified by telephone that her mother, Vicenta Flores, has fainted during a dialysis session at Elmhurst Hospital, and a family member needs to take her to the emergency room.

Rosa, a petite woman with high cheekbones and sleek dark hair, spent days disinfecting the kitchen and the well-trafficked bathroom, with its shower handle for her parents to grip. She encouraged her mother, who is 77, to stay in her small room between dialysis appointments, and bought sugar-free Robitussin for diabetics to treat what she thought was her mother’s minor cold.

These precautions were futile. Rosa calls her brother Jorge, who lives nearby. He rushes to the hospital.

It was never the plan to jam so many people into Rosa’s apartment. To stuff the living room bookshelves with clothes. To pile dusty boots and sparkly children’s shoes outside the front door.

But a few months ago, Rosa’s sister Carmen and her family appeared at her door in Red Cross blankets after losing their home in a fire. So now six adults, five children, two cats and a dog live packed together, amid the discarded baubles that Vicenta has picked up while collecting cans for deposit money, which she sends to her mother in Ecuador.

Jorge calls back, worried; a line of more than 100 people is unspooling from the emergency room. Rosa tells him to alert the hospital staff that their mother is in a wheelchair, sick and listless.

Soon Rosa’s brother calls again, this time with a doctor who has questions. Has Vicenta had a fever? Has anyone else in the family been ill?

Yes. Both Rosa and her mother have not been feeling well. But if her mother has contracted the virus, Rosa wonders where. At the dialysis clinic? During visits to another Queens hospital where her 83-year-old husband, José Redentor Lema — Rosa’s father — had been recovering after complications from pancreatic surgery?

What about the living room, where Vicenta sits during the day, playing with the cats or stroking her granddaughters’ ponytails? At night the sofas become beds for Rosa’s sister, her husband and their twins; he is a tile layer who became ill when the virus swept through his construction crew.

At Elmhurst, hospital workers lift her mother onto a bed and wheel her away, leaving Jorge to take in the long trail of the sick and worried, some so depleted they are lying on the ground.

Rosa thinks about their mother’s toughness. Cooking corn cakes over open flames for the family in their hometown, Biblián. Raising six children while her husband traveled the country building roads. Then, when her children emigrated to the United States, raising some of their children.

Once she was in Queens, the tiny woman, not five feet tall, learned to navigate the big-city streets as she collected cans. She even emerged from a six-week coma after being struck by a car.

Ella va a estar bien. This is what Rosa will tell her siblings. She will be fine.

But what will she tell her father, who has recently been moved to a rehabilitation center? He is so attached to his wife of 52 years that he always asks the same thing if she is even a minute late coming home.

Where is Vicenta? Where is Vicenta?

A mile and a half away in Woodside, in another brick apartment building, Jack Wongserat, the chef, has shared his fears of the coronavirus with his partner, Joe Farris, who has not been as anxious. Until now. Jack has a 103-degree fever.

Theirs has been a New York romance: A Thai immigrant named Jack, short and compact, meets an Alabama native named Joe, tall and thin, in a bar on the Bowery in 2005. They engage in the pro forma exchange of telephone numbers, but then Jack surprises Joe by calling.

“He courted me,” Joe says.

In the city’s close-knit community of Thai cuisine, Jack, 53, is known as exacting but nurturing: rigid about hygiene and promptness and then, after the last curried dish has been served, available for a glass of Riesling and an encouraging chat with colleagues new to America.

Drawing on his own life — born in the Thai city of Ubon Ratchathani, losing both parents when he was young, emigrating in 1990 with no prospects — Jack tells them to be strong. He spins stories about his luck at casinos, and invites them to watch his beloved Giants and share spicy food he has cooked that will taste like home.

They nickname him Mama.

His partner, Joe, 58, grew up in the small city of Jasper and studied music at the University of Alabama. He taught English in Taiwan for a year, then moved in the early ’90s to New York. After a long stretch waiting tables, he shifted to market research, and now works as a project manager from the apartment he has shared with Jack for two years.

In one corner are Jack’s small shrine to the Buddha and a mismatched collection of china for the restaurant he hopes to open one day. In another corner sits the digital piano he bought for Joe to reignite his passion for music.

Now, on this Saturday morning, Jack is texting Joe from their bedroom.

11:43 a.m.: My test is positive

11:43 a.m.: Dr. said drink more water

11:45 a.m.: Take the Virus medicine

11:50 a.m.: Start separating fork spoon

11:50 a.m.: Use the mask protection

11:50 a.m.: Every time

12:07 p.m.: Sorry about that

The skies are leaden, a wintry mix falling. All in keeping with the mood of Queens.

Inside Elmhurst Hospital, Vicenta Flores is on a ventilator, unconscious and alone. Visitors are not allowed, but many in her family’s small apartment in Corona are too sick to see her anyway, including two grandchildren sharing a nebulizer meant for asthma. Rosa Lema, Vicenta’s daughter, is so ill that she has gotten tested for the coronavirus.

Meanwhile, the entertainer Yimel Alvarado remains sedated and on a ventilator in her clear plastic cocoon. With the help of an English-speaking member of the Familia Alvarado, her sister Olivia has been calling twice a day to check on Yimel, whose own test result has finally come in: positive.

Covid cases have all but overtaken the emergency department. Just weeks ago, the prevailing wisdom held that the hospital’s four negative-pressure isolation rooms could handle whatever infectious cases came in. The thought now seems absurd.

For Dr. Stuart Kessler, the emergency department’s director, the days are one protracted crisis under fluorescent lights. A Queens native who grew up in Bayside, seven miles to the east, he has hound-dog eyes and a seen-it-all air earned from decades as an emergency-medicine physician in big-city hospitals.

But he has never seen any disease progress like this virus, and he is urging peers around the country to reject conventional thought and prepare for something entirely unfamiliar. His words of caution do not seem to register. If you haven’t lived through it, he decides, you cannot understand it.

Outside the hospital, gunmetal barricades guide a trail of rain-battered people toward a testing site in a tent near the emergency department entrance. Bent beneath umbrellas, hunched against the cold, they form a daily column of dread.

Francisco Moya, the local councilman, drives past the line after delivering 1,000 face masks to the hospital where he was born 46 years ago and once worked as an administrator. The son of Ecuadorean immigrants who settled in Corona, he is a familiar, bearded presence around here, having also served as a community organizer and state assemblyman.

He is heart-stricken and angered by the sight of so many people, many of them uninsured immigrants, huddled in desperation. It seems like a scene from some war-torn country, not his own.

As the city’s confirmed cases double about every week, Mr. Moya is among those sounding the alarm. On social media and in calls to City Hall, he asserts that Elmhurst Hospital is over capacity and in dire need of doctors, nurses, ventilators and personal protective equipment.

It is true: Many in Queens are in short supply of nearly everything, save despair. But dozens of local organizations are working to fill the void.

A few blocks from Elmhurst Hospital, a young imam from Bangladesh is converting his mosque, An-Noor Cultural Center, into a makeshift storehouse; the prayer room’s carpet will soon be covered with donated halal food. With the wizardry of his 13-year-old son, he is also posting daily videos on social media to keep his isolated congregants informed.

In Woodside, an out-of-work contractor from Ecuador volunteers his services on Facebook to fellow congregants at Aliento de Vida church. “My brothers God bless you all,” he writes. “If anybody is in need of supplies or has an emergency and needs transportation, I offer to take you completely for free.”

And in Jackson Heights, an old Lutheran church hums with assembly-line precision. The building is now a Buddhist temple and headquarters for the United Sherpa Association, a resource for immigrants from Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan. Among its members is Dawa Sherpa, the Uber driver, who is active in its youth sports program.

On the second floor, where a white scarf, called a khata, is draped over a beam as a sign of welcome, volunteers are making care packages for the sick, homebound and scared.

They have been scrounging round-the-clock for gloves and face masks and hand sanitizer, with members in the import business calling contacts in Asia late at night. But they cannot seem to get enough of a once-plentiful item: Tylenol.

Joe Farris, who lives a short block from the Sherpa building, has been on the same quest. His partner, Jack Wongserat, is trying to stay fit during his illness, doing stretches on a blanket he has laid on the floor beside the bed. But his dry coughs are incessant.

Seeking to ease Jack’s pain, Joe walks the unnaturally quiet Queens streets in search of isopropyl alcohol, zinc, vitamin C tablets and Tylenol. None at the Duane Reade drugstore. None at the Walgreens. The best he can do is to secure two thermometers.

Joe is also unwell. He is coughing and has lost his sense of smell, which is said to be a Covid symptom. The other day he put his wrist to his nose and could not detect his cologne.

The two men at least have a plan. They wipe everything with alcohol swabs and keep separate silverware in plastic containers marked with their names. Joe sleeps in the living room.

Even so, Jack seems to be thinking ahead. While Joe putters in the kitchen where Jack’s spices take up four shelves, he hears his partner mutter alarming words as he shuffles past.

I’m not afraid of dying. I’m 53. I’ve had a good life.

Less than a mile to the north, in East Elmhurst, Mahdia Chowdhury is home from Cornell University and losing sleep in her family’s small second-floor apartment, in the bedroom she shares with her two teenage brothers.

Outside, the ambulances are so common that at night their lights paint her bedroom ceiling red. Inside, her father, Shamsul, is getting sicker by the day.

A few days ago, he stopped going to his mosque and returned the yellow Toyota Prius that he leased with a partner to a taxi garage in Long Island City, as she had begged him to do because of risks to his health. Too late.

Now, every night, he comes to her room to ask whether his “dysentery” — his term for a fever and diarrhea — means that he has Covid.

No, she fibs to reassure him. You’re fine.

Although her parents sleep in the same bed, Mahdia is not as worried about her mother, Tarana, 47, who still works serving food and cleaning up in the United Airlines lounge at nearby La Guardia Airport. It is mostly empty now, the once-constant roar of jets overhead all but silenced.

Her father is the one who concerns her. Setting aside her college assignments to research Covid symptoms, she has become convinced that he is infected and, as a diabetic and smoker, at great risk. He is 48.

Just days ago, Mahdia was in the library of her hilly campus 240 miles away, cramming for midterm exams. Now she lies awake as her brothers sleep. Shamsul seems weaker. He scarcely touches the rice the family leaves outside his bedroom door, beneath a talisman of a blue eye meant to ward off evil.

She thinks about their father’s quiet sacrifices. In the Bangladeshi city of Sylhet, he owned land and had a master’s degree. He was part of the privileged class.

The earnest and meticulous Shamsul gave all this up in 2009 to provide more opportunity for his children in the United States, where, instead of managing operations at a bank in Sylhet, he took Mahdia and her brothers to school every morning in the taxi he drove 10 hours a day.

He no longer seems as depressed as when they first arrived, though the family’s finances remain a worry. He fears that he became a New York cabdriver a generation too late; that the taxi industry was collapsing even before the pandemic; that he and his wife may never afford a house.

Now Shamsul shuffles to the bathroom in loose pajamas and flip-flops, shielding his eyes against the light. Do you think I have it?

Mahdia, petite and practical, her thick black hair kept at shoulder’s length, usually handles the family’s paperwork, a familiar job for a first child of immigrants. She will be the one to decide what to do.

Should she hold off on sending him to Elmhurst Hospital, rumored to be overrun? Or should she get him there while she can? She envisions herself frantically dialing 911 some night, only to find that all the ambulances have already been dispatched.

Another squalling ambulance hurries down their block, another sick person being taken away. From her window she has seen the used rubber gloves left by paramedics on the street.

Jack Wongserat demands to be handed a takeout container to fill an order. He becomes annoyed when one is not made available, then sits down to dial the telephone.

But there are no takeout containers. There is no telephone. Nor is he back working at a Thai restaurant in Manhattan on this cool and cloudy morning. Jack is in his Woodside apartment, in the throes of a delusion.

By tonight, much of the country will be disabused of any illusions about the virus, in part because of Jack.

His partner, Joe, settles him into a plush chair in their bedroom, then eases him onto the bed, hoping that he will sleep. But soon Jack is gasping for air. As Joe hurriedly turns him on his side, they both crash to the floor.

Joe dials 911 and tries to follow the dispatcher’s instructions for administering CPR. The ambulance, of course, seems to take forever.

The paramedics hurl the tan chair onto the bed to create room, then take Jack by stretcher down to the courtyard. As five medics wheel him to the ambulance, his stomach rises and falls in frantic measure to his search for breath.

Oh my dear, says a neighbor watching from her window. Oh no, oh my Lord, please bless him.

Racing to Elmhurst Hospital on foot, Joe finds Jack intubated and unconscious on a bed in the controlled frenzy of the overcrowded emergency department. Beds are wheeled past, including one bearing a patient who appears to be dead.

A drawn curtain in a corner provides minimal privacy for two men who have shared an Alabama-Thailand bond for 15 years. On the faint chance that Jack can hear, Joe talks.

Everything is going to be OK. You’re at peace.

A doctor explains that a sustained loss of oxygen has caused significant and permanent brain damage. He excuses himself to allow Joe time to decide whether everything or nothing should be done to keep Jack alive.

For Joe, the only option is the one Jack would want. He accepts and signs the Do Not Resuscitate form.

Sitting at the bedside of his life partner, Joe loses all sense of time. At one point Jack’s heartbeat becomes erratic, but a physician who rushes over is advised by a colleague not to assist: The patient is a D.N.R.

Jack’s heart stops. Two social workers appear by Joe’s side to provide comfort and a list of funeral homes. One recommends that he make arrangements immediately, given the sudden demand.

Jack Wongserat is one of 13 people to die at Elmhurst Hospital in the span of 24 hours. The hospital code for emergency intervention — “Team 700” — resounds over the loudspeaker, while a recently delivered refrigerated truck hums outside, prepared to receive.

The crush of patients is so great that emergency doctors and nurses are no longer donning fresh N95 masks every time they approach a new patient. It would take too long and burn through too many.

An Elmhurst Hospital doctor’s plea for help, conveyed in a video published by The New York Times, amplifies the increasingly grim situation. The doctor, Colleen Smith, says the emergency department is seeing 400 patients a day — nearly twice the normal complement — while supplies dwindle and crowds wait for medical assessments.

“This is bad. People are dying,” Dr. Smith says in the video. “We don’t have the tools that we need in the emergency department and in the hospital to take care of them.”

By nightfall, the borough of Queens — and, specifically, Elmhurst Hospital — will become known as the epicenter of the pandemic in New York, if not the United States. For many Americans, the coronavirus will move from abstract threat to real-life horror.

Epicenter. Over and over, the word will be repeated by the president and the governor, by newspapers and broadcasters. City officials will soon release data showing that these neighborhoods, interlocking ZIP codes containing the world, top the list of the worst-hit parts of New York.

But right now there is just Joe Farris alone, walking home through the gray afternoon. He heads down 41st Avenue, past a Spanish pharmacy, a Chinese church, and the old Lutheran church where people of Sherpa heritage are assembling Covid care packages.

He is in shock, his mind a jumble of every thought and no thought. All he knows for certain is that a pandemic in Queens has claimed his love.

The day of 13 deaths at Elmhurst Hospital was difficult, horrible, tragic. But for Dr. Laura Iavicoli, an associate director of its emergency department, that was not the worst day. The worst is two days later — today.

She is a self-described proud Philly girl whose shoulder-length black hair offsets her white lab coat. This is who and how she has wanted to be since elementary school, after her best friend was hit by a car and brain-injured, then saved by emergency physicians.

She is also highly motivated, someone who decompresses by working toward a black belt in mixed martial arts; whose idea of relaxing is to drink Colombian coffee, extra light, while working on her laptop in a cafe.

Relaxation is now a foreign concept. Since the outbreak of the coronavirus, she leaves her family’s Upper West Side apartment early, returns late and avoids talking about her day. No need to upset her three daughters, who are 12, 10 and 9.

This morning, Dr. Iavicoli straps on her black helmet and mounts her bicycle, a red and black Fuji Oval bought for $250 a week ago by her husband. It is a replacement for the stress-reducing jogs she no longer has time for.

She cycles through Central Park, over the 59th Street Bridge and into Queens, bound for her now-famous workplace.

Her pride in Elmhurst Hospital remains strong, but she is witnessing the institution being tested to its limits. One of her colleagues calls the situation apocalyptic; another will liken it to Dante’s “Inferno.”

Late in the afternoon, she hurries to join Dr. Kessler for another pandemic-related conference call, but on her way she is stunned by how the Covid sick have overtaken the emergency department. In beds, behind curtains, in the hall, in the waiting room, everywhere. She can barely see the pale tile floor.

Forget the conference call, she tells Dr. Kessler.

The two supervisors join the scrum of health care professionals working nonstop to hold a deadly virus at bay in one corner of Queens. They make bed checks, carry supplies, move patients — whatever is necessary. In this life-or-death theater, time becomes timeless.

When Dr. Iavicoli recalls this night in the days to come, her tough Philly persona will break as she describes a scene simultaneously frantic and methodical, stressful and cool: a scene of people working in concert to keep others alive. Doctors adjusting ventilators. Nurses calibrating drips. Teams scurrying to monitor oxygen levels, replace tanks and reposition patients to make breathing easier.

But giving it all is not always enough.

Before dawn this morning, a ringing cellphone disrupts sleep in the Bronx apartment of Olivia Aldama, Yimel’s sister. The caller is speaking in English, so she hands the phone to one of her teenage sons, now awake.

It’s Elmhurst Hospital. Yimel’s blood pressure has dropped and her breathing has slowed, he says. If her heart stops, as it did a few days ago, should they try to revive her?

Yes, yes, yes, Olivia says. Whatever they have to do.

They hang up, and Olivia waits in the dark. She last saw her sister nearly two weeks ago, the day after Yimel was hospitalized. She had waited in vain for 12 hours, hoping for an update on Yimel’s condition, before finally mustering her courage and slipping into the I.C.U. late that night.

The nurses didn’t even look up, which had Olivia thinking, God must have made me invisible.

There was her sister, sedated in a glass-sealed room. Even with tubes curling around her face, Yimel looked dignified, her chin raised, her eyes closed beneath thin, arched eyebrows.

The phone rings again. This time, a translation service for the hospital is calling to say that Yimel — her Chiquis — has died.

Olivia cannot go back to sleep. In a few hours, she thinks, she will ask someone who speaks English to call the hospital back to make sure it is true.

Later this morning, in a darkened bedroom in Corona, Rosa Lema lies awake in bedsheets damp from another feverish night. Her mind is spinning.

Her brother-in-law, the tile layer, has just left for the hospital with severe symptoms. Rosa’s test results have shown not only that she has the coronavirus, but also that she is pregnant.

Weak and short of breath, she does not want to move. But from her bed she hears a sound disrupting the apartment’s usual chattering hum. One of her daughters, sobbing.

Rosa manages to rise and walk into the living room. Her husband, who has just lost his job in construction, is crying; he takes her in his arms. Her sister Carmen, who has just lost her job as a house cleaner, has stopped making lunch and is comforting Rosa’s 9-year-old daughter.

Rosa takes in the scene, and she knows.

Their brother Jorge has called with devastating news: Se nos fue la vieja. We lost our old lady.

The family had heard little from Elmhurst Hospital since Vicenta was admitted and intubated a week ago. There was no warning that her condition had deteriorated. No chance to say goodbye, even by video.

Soon, the six children of Vicenta Flores will struggle to find a mortician to collect her body from the hospital, which is demanding that it be removed as soon as possible. They will have to have difficult video-call discussions about cremation, which, according to the consulate, is now the only way to send the remains of people who died of Covid back to Ecuador.

And they will have to decide when to tell their father, José, who remains at a local rehabilitation center, that his wife of a half-century is dead.

But right now, everyone is crying over the loss of their Abuelita. Carmen moves to embrace Rosa, but her sister turns and heads back to her bed.

Soon, from behind Rosa’s door, comes the sound of weeping.

It is nearly 3 in the morning when Dr. Iavicoli straps on her helmet. She guides her new bicycle out of an office, down an empty hallway and out into the stilled night.

With the white tent and refrigerated truck behind her, she cycles past a Mexican grocery, a couple of Thai restaurants, a Hindu temple, a Muslim cultural center, a tax service for Spanish speakers. Queens.

She knows that when she reaches her apartment, her husband will have laid out the hand sanitizer and the disinfectant wipes. She will throw her clothes in the laundry and take a hot shower.

She has 50 minutes before arriving at her doorstep to leave her pandemic-filled day behind. She thinks of what went well; what could have gone better, and how. She wonders when the death and sickness will end.

The doctor turns left onto Roosevelt Avenue, where the elevated subway tracks create a skeletal ceiling. She feels as if she is moving through some alternate universe. As if the great metropolis of New York were in paralytic shock.

Down city thoroughfares as quiet as country roads, then onto the cantilevered 59th Street Bridge. Dr. Iavicoli can see the East River murk through the metal grates beneath her tires, then parts of Roosevelt Island, where her cherished workplace began operating nearly 200 years ago.

She exits the bridge and glides as if in a dream through a silenced Manhattan. The rush of cool city air clears her mind, allows her to shed the day like a tossed lab coat.

Up First Avenue. Across 66th Street. Through the darkened sanctuary of Central Park to the Upper West Side.

Home.

Dawa Sherpa has been ill for more than a week. Coughing. Lethargic. No appetite. Struggling to breathe. His wife, Sita Rai, trails after him as he shambles around their Woodside apartment, wiping whatever he touches with disinfectant.

But he is so weak this evening that she calls for an ambulance. He makes his way down the gray-carpeted steps, past the descending row of the family’s shoes, and is winded by the effort.

Dawa is taken a half-mile to Elmhurst Hospital, which continues to develop in-the-moment protocols for what is now considered an ongoing mass-casualty event. The news last week of 13 deaths in a day has prompted an outpouring of support in donations of masks and other supplies. And, soon, patient transfers will ease the overcrowding.

But the publicity has also fueled a troubling misapprehension among some local residents, based on ominous things they have seen and heard. The refrigerated truck. The wailing ambulances. The long lines. The rhythmic thump of hovering news helicopters.

Word spreads that no one who enters Elmhurst Hospital comes out alive. The local rumor mill spins the 13 deaths into 15; 25; 1,000.

The false information has convinced some to face Covid on their own at home, armed with little more than tea and, with any luck, Tylenol. It can be a fatal decision.

But like many others, Dawa has chosen to trust the doctors at Elmhurst. He is led to a small area where others sitting in mismatched chairs draw oxygen from various devices. The hospital has no choice but to group the sick together.

Some are talking in Spanish on cellphones, some cry in fear. He shares their terror. He knows that another Uber driver from Nepal, a father of three, recently died of the virus in this hospital. That man was a year younger than Dawa.

The former monk is connected to an oxygen generator. To keep calm, he recites a prayer in his head that invokes and evokes the embodiment of the Buddha’s compassion:

Sol wa deb so la ma chen re zig,

Sol wa deb so yi dam chen re zig …

Queens can use the prayers.

The streets are deserted. Signs on the closed Himalayan Yak restaurant and the Popular Driving School, the Afghan Kebab and Grill and the S.M. Digital Sign &amp; Printing store, will all give the same reason: Due to the Covid-19 crisis …

Mr. Trump today only intensifies the apocalyptic mood. He has continued to downplay the crisis, but news reports from his home borough — he was raised in upscale Jamaica Estates, less than six miles from Elmhurst Hospital — seem to give him momentary pause.

“When I see the trucks pull up, to take out bodies — and these are trucks that are as long as the Rose Garden, and they’re pulling up to take out bodies — and you look inside and you see the black body bags.” he says. “And you say, ‘What’s in there? It’s Elmhurst Hospital. Must be supplies.’

“It’s not supplies. It’s people.”

Some local officials and neighborhood advocates are too furious to engage in macabre musings. They have been decrying what they see as the government’s failure to respond adequately to a pandemic in an immigrant community notorious for overcrowded conditions.

But everyone is forced to adapt, including Captain Cermeli of the 110th Precinct in Elmhurst, where more than a third of the officers are out sick.

With his short-cropped hair and crisp white uniform shirt, Captain Cermeli, 39, exudes an embrace of order. In his precinct office, the arrangement of family photographs, the crayon drawings, the awards and honors, are all just so.

But how do you apply order to an invisible threat? To a Queens you grew up in, but now barely recognize: No streams of commuters pouring down the stairs from the elevated 7 train. No crowds making the pilgrimage to cheer the Mets at Citi Field. No shoppers at the Queens Center mall.

These days, his officers guard against burglaries in closed, untended storefronts. They cruise Flushing Meadows Corona Park, delivering reminders by loudspeaker to maintain social distancing. They stand sentry over those who have died at home until the bodies can be collected.

When he returns to his Long Island home at night, Captain Cermeli enters through the garage, showers and takes pains not to embrace his two children, 12 and 9.

Years ago, during an earlier tour, the captain found a glass-encased crucifix behind one of the 110th Precinct’s file cabinets. When he returned as commanding officer in February, he hung it on a wall in his office. Now he takes time to stand before the crucifix and, like Dawa Sherpa, pray for better days.

Keep my family safe. Keep my men and women safe. Keep me safe.

Dawa sits upright in a corner of the emergency room. He sits as Sunday night blurs into Monday, and Monday into Tuesday.

Now and then he stretches his legs, draping his black jacket over his padded chair to claim it. He asks the nurses who monitor his vitals if there is a bed, only to be told not yet. He feels hungry and is given a sandwich, but he is unable to eat. He gets by on juice and water and oxygen and prayer.

Sol wa deb so la ma chen re zig,

Sol wa deb so yi dam chen re zig …

Tuesday becomes Wednesday.

Finally, Dawa is led to a room on the third floor. He sheds his stale clothes for a gray hospital gown and eases into the comfort of a bed for the first time in four days.

His roommate, a man with the same virus, speaks only Spanish. Still, they exchange encouragement with simple gestures. A nod. A thumbs-up. A peace sign.

A gray Chrysler minivan makes its daily rounds. Its driver listens to anything that distracts, from sports to hip-hop to Johnny Cash. He drinks Gatorade now instead of coffee; he has enough trouble sleeping.

This is Tom Habermann, 34, manager and resident mortician of the Guida Funeral Home. Thin and exhausted, he wears jeans and a sweater instead of his normal work attire of somber black. Death is too common for any formality.

He spends these days driving from hospital to hospital, collecting bodies. There is no time for embalming, or choosing floral arrangements, or assembling pallbearers. There is only the sliding of body bags into the minivan’s hold, again and again.

The Guida Funeral Home, a family-owned anchor of Corona for more than a century, usually handles 100 or so deaths a year; it will nearly match that number in just eight weeks this spring. An answering service has been retained to handle the many calls from people begging for help, now that some parlors are refusing to accept virus victims or are too busy to even answer the phone.

Mr. Habermann and Eddie Guida Jr., the funeral home’s owner and his best friend from high school, do what they can. They see themselves as performing a grim but necessary duty at a time when the rituals of mourning have been upended. The last responders.

But the volume is too great. Hospitals and funeral homes do not have enough room for all the bodies; crematories and cemeteries do not have enough time. A local crematory recently offered: You can come next Friday — but bring only two.

Mr. Guida, 34, stocky and tattooed, has relied on his many connections. An uncle has a friend on Long Island who has provided a 54-by-8-foot refrigerated truck, and one of his cousins owns an empty lot nearby. That is where the parked truck now hums, the temperature set at 32 degrees.

Soon it will hold nearly 50 bodies.

Mr. Guida feels the pressure of stewardship for his family’s funeral home, which is old enough to have handled deaths during the 1918 influenza pandemic. He worries that the parlor will not be able to keep up with demand.

But Mr. Habermann is the one who has to collect the bodies. He then has to set the facial features of the dead for simple headshots that allow for both positive identification and some closure for families who have been denied wakes and viewings.

He drives his minivan to Elmhurst Hospital. To Flushing Hospital. To Coney Island Hospital. To Mather Hospital out on Long Island. Back to the funeral home. Then to the truck.

Sometimes Mr. Habermann listens to the radio as he drives. Sometimes he thinks about the apartment renovations that he and his wife never seem able to finish. Sometimes he wonders when death will become normal again.

Sometimes, at the end of the day, the professional facade cracks, and the mortician cries.

The news on this overcast day is not merely bad, announces the governor, Mr. Cuomo. It is terrible. New York State has just recorded its highest single-day death toll as a result of the coronavirus: 779. As more losses are counted in the coming months, the number will change slightly. But this span of days will remain a dark milestone: the virus’s deadliest time in New York.

The city has also released some new, disturbing statistics. The virus is killing Black and Latino people at twice the rate of white people.

“Every number is a face,” the governor says.

Since the outbreak began a little more than a month ago, the state has counted 6,268 fatalities. Mr. Cuomo notes that this is more than twice the number of lives lost in the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center.

But, he says, there is also “good news.”

The very concept seems so removed from life in Queens, where the only sounds during this somber Holy Week, when Christians commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus, seem to be ambulance sirens and the chirping birds of early spring. But city and state health officials have gleaned a pinhole of light in the enveloping gloom:

Daily admissions to intensive care units are down. Daily intubations are down. Hospitalizations are beginning to flatten.

The twinning of two simple words — good news — gives oxygen to hope.

Tracking these same trends is Israel Rocha Jr., the chief executive at Elmhurst Hospital, whose life has been a round-the-clock churn of crisis management and personal prayer. He all but lives in a conference room where the latest statistics are shared, the latest plans proposed, the latest worries expressed.

The hospital is testing well over 200 patients a day for the virus, with positive results climbing to an astounding 80 percent. At the same time, scores of its own workers are testing positive.

But Mr. Rocha, 42, has seen statistics similar to the ones informing the governor’s encouraging words. Sitting in his office, where an artwork on the wall declares that “Queens is the Future,” he has pored over reports showing that positivity rates at Elmhurst have plateaued.

For the first time in more than a month, it becomes slightly easier for the head of Elmhurst Hospital to breathe.

Evening approaches, the clouds part and a Covid patient at Elmhurst prepares to leave. Dawa, the Uber driver who was once a Buddhist monk, has spent the last nine nights in the hospital.

As he recovered, his roommate, who always returned his thumbs-up encouragement, had declined. One morning Dawa awakened beside an empty bed.

He sheds his hospital gown for his street clothes and signs the discharge papers. He considers walking, but realizes he hasn’t the strength. He takes an Uber the half-mile home.

A small stage materializes in a parking lot beside El Trio restaurant in Corona. Its scarlet cloth backdrop shields an old Chevy van from view. Headless mannequins in gowns of black and fuchsia stand like bodyguards at an exclusive outdoor affair.

A memorial celebration is being held for Yimel Alvarado, who created those gowns for her cabaret performances in the restaurant’s upstairs lounge, where she would lip-sync songs of love.

Close friends, the Familia Alvarado, have adorned the stage with vivid bouquets that offset the pavement’s gray. They recite the rosary and raise drinks in toast. Many wear face masks to guard against what might linger in the hot evening air.

While the coronavirus continues its indiscriminate spread across the country, here in New York it has taken an uneasy summertime pause, allowing for an approximation of normal life. Allowing Yimel’s family and friends to gather in her honor, albeit outdoors.

But the great metropolis remains shaken by the virus’s lethal supremacy; by tonight, health officials will have counted 18,787 confirmed deaths. And no corner of New York has felt its wrath more than the interlocking Queens neighborhoods of Corona, East Elmhurst, Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Woodside.

Tens of thousands are out of work. People stand in long food pantry lines while trying to maintain a safe distance. Many who are undocumented, and therefore ineligible for benefits, have turned to hawking wares from the sidewalks: tacos, pork rinds, flavored ices, face masks.

Most everyone knows someone who has died. In this eight-square-mile patch of Queens, about 1,400 people will have died from the coronavirus by the end of July. In just one elementary school in Elmhurst, nearly 90 students have already lost a parent or guardian.

Absence is everywhere.

In a crowded apartment in Corona, the Lema family mourns not one death, but two. Days after a funeral service on Staten Island for Vicenta, the family’s matriarch, her husband, José, died of the virus before being told of his wife’s death.

Two small urns containing their ashes sit on a chipped dresser in the bedroom they shared, with a statue of the Virgin Mary between them. Their pregnant daughter Rosa plans to take the urns back to Ecuador. She is waiting for the necessary paperwork — and the birth of her son.

In Woodside, Joe Farris continues to adjust to life without his partner, Jack Wongserat. For a few weeks he slept on the living room couch, unable to enter their bedroom, much less remove the chair that medics had tossed on the bed while tending to Jack.

Jack’s many pairs of sneakers still fill the shoe rack near the front door, and the pieces of china for the restaurant he never opened sit in a glass case. The Buddha-figurine gold necklace that Jack wore the day he died rests in a place of honor.

But Joe is making progress. He plays Buddhist meditation music, practices forms of stress reduction and sleeps in the bed he no longer shares.

Many recovered. Some experienced minor symptoms. Some endured what seemed like an especially bad flu. Some came so close to dying that they will feel the breath knocked out of them for months.

After being discharged from Elmhurst Hospital, Dawa Sherpa spent weeks recuperating. Now, while his wife works, he cares for their three sons — the youngest cartwheels through the apartment — and volunteers at the United Sherpa Association, preparing care packages for those still in need.

He has not returned to driving for Uber.

Shamsul Chowdhury, the bank officer from Bangladesh who became a taxi driver in Queens, has also recovered, but his family has not gone unscathed. Three relatives died, and every other member of his household fell ill: his wife; their daughter, Mahdia; and two sons.

So many of his taxi-driving colleagues were lost to the virus that there is talk of a memorial. But Shamsul, too, has given up driving for hire; soon he will have a new job as a mail handler for the United States Postal Service.

Mahdia is now working as an unpaid intern for a state senator’s office — her tasks include helping constituents apply for unemployment insurance — and will return to Cornell in the fall.

The virus has brought about other changes. Elmhurst Hospital has held virtual meetings to reassure residents and dispel misconceptions. It has improved ways of providing updates on patients’ conditions, and helped to establish the clinical protocols for treating Covid, forged in the hellish days of March.

Not that those days are forgotten. Here and there are modest tributes: a photo of a well-liked mechanic outside a bicycle-repair shop; a black ribbon in a bakery window; a votive candle’s quivering flame.

But as the city anticipates a resurgence of the virus, one that will approach frightening levels by late fall, the worry is whether the warnings have been heeded. Will the lesson — that overcrowding helped make Queens an epicenter of the worst pandemic in a century — have been learned?

Up and down Roosevelt Avenue, fliers taped to the elevated subway columns advertise rooms newly available in basements, in subdivided apartments, in dwellings within dwellings. They flutter in the city breeze.

Outside El Trio on this hot and humid July evening, the rosaries have been said, a mariachi band has performed, and a black box containing Yimel’s ashes has been placed on the red-cloth stage.

Her younger sister Olivia, the last family member to see her alive, wears a T-shirt depicting Yimel as an angel in a fabulous red gown. Olivia has lost her job at the dry cleaners; her arms are now tanned from selling bottled water in a park.

She calls her mother, Concepción Alvarado, in Mexico. Soon the gray-haired woman appears on the cellphone screen, beside the altar she has set up in Yimel’s honor outside a cinder-block house. There, on a plate, sits her daughter’s favorite pastry.

The mother cries, and wipes her tears with a rag.

As the sky-blue evening gives in to the cerulean night, grief cedes ground. Members of the Familia Alvarado disappear, only to return in sequined gowns and caftans. Elevated by their platform shoes, they vamp and sing of love and defiance.

Shots of tequila are raised up and knocked back, as people erupt in shouts of Que viva Yimel! The celebration of life in a drab parking lot in Queens continues well past midnight, into the hope and uncertainty of another day.





No.58 article:
As Premier League Gates Reopen, a Soothing Soundtrack Returns

The return of a few thousand fans to Premier League stadiums was a reminder that it’s not only their roars that we’ve missed.

LONDON — The stillness spoke volumes. There were 12 minutes left to play, but the game was over. Manchester United’s players were swarming around Marcus Rashford, scorer of his team’s third goal, the one that had settled matters. West Ham’s were staring blankly at the turf, unsure of quite how things had slipped away from them.

In the Billy Bonds stand, though, nobody moved. In ordinary circumstances, more than a handful would have picked themselves up with a shake of the head and a flash of anger, and made their way to the exits. A bitterly cold evening, a long trudge away from the stadium ahead, most reasonable hope extinguished. Why put yourself through any more?

But, of course, this was not an ordinary circumstance. It has been 271 days since fans were allowed to watch a Premier League game in the flesh. The 2,000 West Ham supporters inside the London Stadium were the first to attend a game since March 9: another season, another world. These were the lucky few. Their reward was to sit and endure seeing their team beaten, 3-1.

There is a fairly brutal metaphor there, a reminder that sports is not a game of guarantees. There is no guarantee you will leave satisfied. There is no guarantee that your support will have any effect. As this game proved for at least half an hour — before West Ham came to life and scored the opening goal and before Manchester United, belatedly, decided to join in — there is no guarantee that this form of entertainment will even be entertaining.

Perhaps, though, there is one exception. Soccer’s past nine months have been marked, indelibly, by absence: first, for two months, of the sport as a whole, and then, for far longer, of the sport as it ought to be, not just a game but a spectacle, a conduit for contact and community and family and all those other things that have been lost, have been sacrificed, in far more significant ways over the course of this year.

Soccer has found a way through, to its credit, playing games in empty stadiums with vast banners draped over vacant seats and artificial soundtracks piped onto television feeds. It has made it work, as it had to do. But every goal that has been scored has brought a sense of regret, too, a sense that something was missing, a sense that nothing was the same.

To witness the return of fans, though, was to realize how much deeper the absence ran. Fans are, in a sincere but intangible way, the meaning of soccer, the meaning of sports. It is fans who define and determine what all of this means. In a more immediate sense, though, they provide the texture of the occasion that bring all of this to life in vivid Technicolor.

The roar after a goal, of course, is the clearest example, but the soundscape is far richer, far more diverse than that, and often not necessarily especially logical. The loudest cheer here on Saturday was not, for example, the one that greeted Tomas Soucek’s goal that put West Ham ahead. It was for a tackle by Declan Rice on Rashford.

Then there are all the sounds that are so much a part of the tableau that they are easily forgotten — the ripple of applause after a well-executed cross-field pass; the mocking jeer that accompanies a wayward touch; the raucous applause for a throw-in — and the noises that no algorithm or soundboard could hope to capture: the ebb and flow of excitement as a player dallies on the ball and an attack breaks down; the switch from cheer to groan as the referee halts a counterattack because of a supposed injury. It is only when you hear them all again that you realize how much has been missing.

This is not the end of the journey, of course. Two thousand fans in a stadium that can hold 30 times that number can still be easily lost; the noise they generate is less a thunderclap and more a rain squall.

The Premier League has been lobbying the British government for months, insisting it has protocols in place that can safeguard far more fans than this. (It might, if it wishes to strengthen its case, point out that the vast mall that sits adjacent to the London Stadium was packed with Christmas shoppers on Saturday evening, making the most of the capital’s exit from the country’s most onerous lockdown restrictions this week.)

Those who had been allocated tickets to United’s visit in West Ham’s random lottery were greeted outside the stadium by staff members handing out free face masks — adorned with an antiracism message — and welcoming them back to the club. There were temperature checks on the way in, one-way systems in place to move around the arena, all those things that might once have been so alien but are now ruefully familiar.

The hope, of course, is that these early games will provide proof that the numbers of fans allowed inside can grow, gradually and carefully, though seeing places like this full again remains a distant prospect.

Only four of this weekend’s nine Premier League fixtures will be played in front of any fans at all; the fact that the 10th game, Newcastle’s trip to Aston Villa, was postponed after an outbreak of the coronavirus among Newcastle’s players and staff members offers a warning that the road ahead is not a straight one.

That at least one game this weekend — at Millwall, not too far from this part of east London — was marred by fans’ booing the sight of players taking the knee, part of soccer’s continuing response to the Black Lives Matter movement, is a troubling reminder that every silver lining risks attracting a cloud.

But this is, without question, a start. After 271 days, fans are finally back in Premier League stadiums. The game feels just a little more real, a little more like its old self again. It has missed them and they, in turn, have missed it. Nobody moved when Rashford scored Manchester United’s third. That is the lot of the fan: There are no guarantees that you will like what you see. But sometimes, just seeing it is enough.





No.59 article:
Dolly Parton Likes to Read by the Fire in Her Pajamas

What books are on your night stand? 

The Bible, of course; a daily devotional book; and a charming book called “The Midnight Library,” by Matt Haig.

What’s the last great book you read? 

You know I am shameless and am always selling something so of course the answer is my new book, “Dolly Parton, Songteller,” in stores everywhere! LOL!

Are there any classic novels that you only recently read for the first time? 

I worked on a Christmas show last year so to get into the spirit of things I read Charles Dickens’s “A Christmas Carol” and last summer I read “The Grapes of Wrath.”

Describe your ideal reading experience (when, where, what, how). 

My ideal reading experience is any minute I have free in my music room, but especially on a rainy day off with a fire blazing, wearing my PJs and sitting in a comfy chair.

What’s your favorite book no one else has heard of? 

Not enough folks know what a great book “Kindred,” by Octavia E. Butler, is. It’s kind of tricky to describe but somehow it all works — it’s about race relations and there’s time travel and romance. It’s powerful.

What book should everybody read before the age of 21? 

“To Kill a Mockingbird.”

What book should nobody read until the age of 40? 

Any of those AARP instruction manuals or any book about aches and pains!

Which writers — novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets — working today do you admire most? 

I love Lee Smith, Rick Bragg and Diana Gabaldon. Also anybody deserves credit who can sit down and type thousands of pages. I don’t have that skill.

Have any books influenced your artistic development as a songwriter or a musician? 

Everything I came in contact with influenced me as a songwriter. I have to keep my eyes and heart open to all of life, so in some way, all the books I have read have touched me in one way or another.

Who are your favorite musician-writers? Your favorite memoir by a musician? 

Right now, it’s “Simple Dreams,” by Linda Ronstadt. She both writes and sings like an angel.

What are the best books about music you’ve read? 

This will sound odd but the thesaurus! I’m always looking for new ways to rhyme and a good thesaurus has proven to be a great asset to me.

What moves you most in a work of literature? 

I’m a total sap — love and romance, of course, and anything involving children gets me every time. I guess given the songs I’ve written, that answer is not a big surprise!

Which genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid? 

I love historical fiction with a touch of romance — writers like Lee Smith or Diana Gabaldon. I avoid horror.

How do you organize your books? 

There is always one in my hand and I give the rest away to family and friends. I have book bags everywhere, shelves at every house, and I exchange books with friends and family all the time.

What book might people be surprised to find on your shelves? 

All of my friends know that I love to read so I am given every kind of book imaginable. I’m sure that if you looked, something would surprise you.

What’s the best book you’ve ever received as a gift? 

I was given my mother’s pocket Bible after she died, something I treasure. It’s the best book I ever got.

Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain? 

My favorite hero is the Little Engine That Could. My favorite villain would be the banker in “Auntie Mame,” by Patrick Dennis.

What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most? 

When I was a little kid, my dad didn’t want us to have library books around the house because the younger kids would ruin them and he couldn’t afford to replace them. I have always loved “The Little Engine That Could,” so I started my Imagination Library with it to show kids that they can do anything. I’m really proud that we’ve given away over 145,000,000 books to kids and have more than 1.7 million children registered around the world — in fact, last September was our highest enrollment of children yet. Books were a lifeline to me as a child — I know they make a difference.

What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?

I don’t really embarrass very easily, so I can’t say that’s ever happened. But I am often surprised that something has not crossed my path. When you get to be a certain age, you feel like you’ve seen everything and I learn every day that I’m just starting this journey.

You’re organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers, dead or alive, do you invite? 

First would be James Patterson because, since we are both in entertainment, we could write it off as a business expense. (Ha!) Second would be Fannie Flagg — she’s a friend and a very funny author, so I know she would be a guaranteed good time. Third would be Maya Angelou because she would definitely have wonderful stories and spoke and wrote so poetically. As a bonus, I’d ask Charles Dickens to join us — for the street cred.





No.60 article:
Why Melinda Gates Spends Time ‘Letting My Heart Break’

As the valedictorian of her Dallas high school, Melinda Gates delivered a graduation speech that included a quote attributed to Ralph Waldo Emerson. “To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived,” she told her classmates, “this is to have succeeded.”

Decades later and billions of dollars wealthier, Ms. Gates says the quote is still ringing in her ears. “That’s been my definition of success since high school,” she said. “So if I have an extra dollar, or a thousand dollars, or a million dollars, or in my case, which is absurd, a billion dollars to plow back into making the world better for other people, that’s what I’m going to do.”

As the wife of Bill Gates, the Microsoft co-founder, Ms. Gates now has the capital, clout and connections to have an impact however she pleases. She is one of the richest people in the world, a leading voice in global health and an advocate for women’s economic empowerment. As a face of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, she is also a lightning rod for critics who say billionaires have too much sway over public policy, as well as for conspiracy theorists who harbor darker fantasies.

The Gateses have been sounding the alarm about infectious diseases — and the need to fund vaccination efforts — since the late 1990s. That was when, during travels in Africa and India, the extreme poverty they saw prompted them to reflect on how they might use their wealth to make a difference.

“We just kept saying: ‘What’s going on here? Why isn’t the infrastructure here for roads? Why aren’t we seeing more people who are doing well economically? What’s happened?’” Ms. Gates said. “We started to think about what philanthropy’s role might be and realized that the best place to intervene, if you want somebody to live a full and productive life, was to start with health.”

Since then, the Gates Foundation has given away more than $55 billion, much of it directed at efforts to eradicate disease in the developing world. It has helped to all but wipe out polio, and has poured money into programs aimed at ensuring that poor countries have easy access to vaccines.

When the coronavirus pandemic hit, the foundation turned its attention to the vast and complex project of developing vaccines for the new virus, and ensuring that they could be widely distributed. So far, the foundation has contributed nearly $500 million to coronavirus response efforts. Earlier investments by the foundation are paying off as well — one of the drugmakers it previously funded, BioNTech, has developed a successful Covid-19 vaccine with Pfizer.

Ms. Gates is more optimistic today than she was a couple months ago. Vaccines that appear to be safe and effective are beginning to be deployed. Treatments for the virus have improved. And President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has made beating back the pandemic his top priority.

“The Biden administration will re-enter the global stage and be a participant in making sure the whole world gets vaccines,” Ms. Gates said. She added that the virus team assembled by Mr. Biden was “a very strong, eminent group who are wise and thoughtful and very reasonable.”

Yet Ms. Gates was realistic about the challenges ahead. Vaccine hesitancy is on the rise, disinformation is running rampant on social media, many Americans still refuse to wear masks, and cases are surging again.

“We still have a stretch of very dark months ahead of us,&quot; she said.

This interview was condensed and edited for clarity.

You and Bill have been warning about the risk of pandemics for a long time. How has the last year diverged from your expectations?

You can project out and think about what a pandemic might be like or look like, but until you live through it, it’s pretty hard to know what the reality will be like. So I think we predicted quite well that, depending on what the disease was, it could spread very, very, very quickly. The spread did not surprise us.

What did surprise us is we hadn’t really thought through the economic impacts. What happens when you have a pandemic that’s running rampant in populations all over the world? The fact that we would all be home, and working from home if we were lucky enough to do that. That was a piece that I think we hadn’t really prepared for.

What do you think should have been done earlier at the start of the pandemic?

We can look at how this disease traveled around the world and see that the countries who locked down first, they’re doing better. Many African countries saw it coming and locked it down early. Their replication rate just never got as high as many other countries. And that is a good thing.

We should have said sooner that if you’re going to go out, wear a mask. I mean, the fact we’re even still debating that in the United States makes zero sense. Most people get in a car today and know that to save their own life, they ought to wear a seatbelt. Most people would agree that having drunken drivers on the road is a bad thing, not only individually but for us as a society, because it causes more deaths.

Well, masks are just the right thing to do right now. It is insane that we’re at this point in this pandemic, in the United States, and we’re still debating whether people should wear a mask when they go in a store to buy their groceries.

What do you believe are going to be the most serious challenges to conducting an effective and comprehensive vaccination campaign in this country and around the world?

We do know how to get the vaccine out, even in very remote circumstances. Some of the vaccines will be much harder than others and require very substantial cold chains, so those will be hard to get out around the globe. But there are vaccines coming right behind those, so I’m quite optimistic.

The disinformation has been incredibly harsh, and it affects people’s lives. But I’m also hopeful that as the vaccine comes out and people see that it’s safe and efficacious, they will start to take it so that they can go out and return to normal.

To what do you attribute the rise in vaccine hesitancy? Is it as simple as disinformation?

I think, quite honestly, the advent of social media. If you’re a conspiracy theorist and you get connected to somebody else who maybe has heard of the autism problem that didn’t really exist, those things start to connect, and then those conspiracies start to replicate. We’re at a point of a lot of distrust in the country and all over the world. We know people are more polarized. Disinformation is just too easy to spread, and that’s going to cost people their lives.

Say I start to believe PizzaGate and I start clicking all the theories of PizzaGate. What I’m going to get served up on my social media channel is lots more things about conspiracy theories. And if I don’t have anybody pushing back on that, and I’m going down that wormhole, I’m going to start to believe more and more and more disinformation. That’s just not good for society. Between social media and people’s own anxiety and the polarized nature of our country, all these pieces have combined to make sort of a perfect storm around vaccine hesitancy.

Are there some people who will never get vaccinated, never wear a mask? Yes. We’re already seeing that in places in the country. But I think the more important question is: Will there be a broad set of people that will take this vaccine? And I think the answer to that will be yes.

You and Bill have been subject of conspiracy theories, too. Why do you think they’ve targeted you specifically?

I don’t know. I just think that fear is there, and so people are looking to point to somebody or some thing or some institution. And then once it lands on that person or institution, you get sort of a pile-on effect because of social media, and it’s deeply, deeply concerning for society. Our democracy depends on facts, and we depend on having real facts out there to keep ourselves safe and healthy.

Do you believe that the Trump administration’s politicization of the vaccine development process is contributing to that hesitancy?

Absolutely. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was set up to give scientific information and guidance to health commissioners in every region of the United States. That agency needs to be left to do its job in terms of real scientific fact. And same thing with the Food and Drug Administration. The F.D.A. is our gold standard. It’s how we know our vaccines are safe and efficacious. So they need to be independent organizations and left as independent so that we can trust them. Unfortunately, the opposite of that has happened during this current administration.

Do you believe the United States will be able to recover its leadership position in public health?

People are looking to the U.S. and saying: “What’s happened? What’s going on?” But I do believe our F.D.A. will hold. I do believe our C.D.C. will hold. I do believe the institutions we have will hold over the long term. I’ve traveled to many different countries and seen where they don’t have good governance or good institutions, or they don’t have a free press. We are lucky to have those things in the United States. And, yes, they have been eroded to some extent, some of them, and, yes, our position in global leadership has people scratching their heads. Can it be built back? Yes. Definitely.

Do you believe it’s appropriate for drug makers to profit from the sale of vaccines in the midst of a pandemic?

I think they should make a small profit, because we want them to stay in business. And at the end of the day, they are beholden to their shareholders. The question is how much profit. And I think during a pandemic like this, it should only be slightly above the marginal cost of the vaccine.

Do you accept the line of criticism that says big philanthropy has too much power right now, that individuals, not governments, are making decisions that shape educational policy and public policy?

I think that’s a critique that is well worth listening to and looking at. In our philanthropic work, there isn’t a single thing that we don’t work on in partnership with governments. Because at the end of the day, it is governments that scale things up and that can help the most people. There is a healthy ecosystem that needs to exist between government, philanthropy, the private sector and civil society. And when you get that ecosystem working at its best, no one party in that ecosystem has too much power.

You know, if Bill and I had had more decision-making authority in education, maybe we would’ve gotten farther in the United States. But we haven’t. Some of the things that we piloted or tried got rejected, or didn’t work, and I think there’s a very healthy ecosystem of parents and teachers’ unions and mayors and city councils that make those education decisions. I wish the U.S. school system was better for all kids.

Do you believe the tax code should be changed in ways that address some of the enormous economic disparities in this country?

Bill and I completely agree if you’re wealthy in this country, you benefited from the system, you benefited from the amazing infrastructure of the United States, and so you have an obligation to give back. And we don’t have a tax policy that is appropriately taxing the wealthiest. I’m not an expert on tax policy, but I will say this: A lot of wealthy people are making a lot off of their capital gains, versus their ordinary income. And I think that’s one place we ought to look at tax policy.

How do you reconcile the enormous privilege that you have with the acute suffering that so many people are experiencing right now?

It’s something I’ve pondered a lot. There’s no explanation how you get to be in this situation of privilege. There’s just none. But I spend a lot of my waking hours, when we’re not in a pandemic, traveling and meeting other people and doing what I call letting my heart break. I’ve worked in Mother Teresa’s home for the dying. I’ve slept on people’s farms in Africa. I do meditation every morning, and I’ve had days of tears thinking about people I know who’ve lost a loved one. It’s going to those places where your heart really hurts for everybody, not just your own sense of loss.

And so I cry a lot, and then I come back and I say, “How do I take what that person shared with me and what I learned, and how do I plow that back into the work to try and make the world better, or to convince a global leader that they ought to give more money to malaria, or care about people getting a vaccine on the other side of the world, or care about a child not getting a proper education in certain cities in the United States?” I just try to constantly remember that it’s a privilege.





No.61 article:
Biden Wants America to Lead the World. It Shouldn’t.

U.S. “leadership” is a favorite trope of the foreign policy establishment. It’s outdated and dangerous.

There’s a lot we still don’t know about how President-elect Joe Biden and his foreign policy team will approach the world. But this much is clear: They believe in American “leadership.”

In a 2015 speech, Antony Blinken, Mr. Biden’s choice to be secretary of state, employed some version of the word 21 times. This spring, Mr. Biden wrote an essay in Foreign Affairs titled “Why America Must Lead Again.” Last week, when he introduced his national security nominees, he said that “America is back, ready to lead the world.”

Let’s hope not. In the post-Trump age, “leadership” is a misguided, and even dangerous, vision for America’s relationship with the rest of the globe.

For the past four years, foreign policy elites have trumpeted American “leadership” as the safe, bipartisan and benign alternative to the Trump administration’s belligerent America First nationalism. But look up the word “lead” in a dictionary and you’ll find definitions like “the first or foremost place,” being “at the head of” and “to control a group of people.” Leadership doesn’t mean motherhood and apple pie. It means being in charge.

Mr. Biden has offered two justifications for why America deserves this privileged role. The first is hereditary: “For 70 years,” he wrote in Foreign Affairs, “the United States, under Democratic and Republican presidents, played a leading role in writing the rules” that “advance collective security and prosperity.” In other words, America should lead the world now because it has done so effectively in the past.

Between 1945 and 1989, according to Dov H. Levin’s book “Meddling in the Ballot Box,” the United States interfered in foreign elections 63 times. So Mr. Biden’s cheery history of American Cold War leadership leaves a lot out. But even if you romanticize the post-World War II era, it is long gone.

Seventy years ago, as James Goldgeier and Bruce W. Jentleson recently noted, the United States accounted for roughly half of the world’s gross domestic product. It now accounts for just over one-seventh. Collectively, the European Union’s G.D.P., adjusted for purchasing power parity, is almost as large as the United States’. China’s is already larger, and the coronavirus pandemic is likely to only widen the gap. The phrase “leadership” assumes a power hierarchy that, at least economically, no longer exists.

Mr. Biden’s second justification is moral. As he wrote in 2017, “other nations follow our lead because they know that America does not simply protect its own interests, but tries to advance the aspirations of all.” But it’s hard to survey America’s behavior in recent decades and glean some special commitment to global welfare. According to a study by Brown University’s Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, America’s post-9/11 wars have displaced 37 million people. And even before Donald Trump entered the White House, the United States had refused to ratify international treaties that ban land mines, cluster bombs and nuclear tests, regulate the global sale of arms, protect the oceans, enable prosecution of genocide and war crimes, and safeguard the rights of women, children and people with disabilities. Most countries on earth have ratified all or nearly all of these agreements. No other nation has spurned every single one.

Mr. Trump has added to this litany of noncompliance by withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, the Iran nuclear deal, the World Health Organization, the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the United Nations Human Rights Council, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Treaty on Open Skies and the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. This isn’t the record of a country that has earned the right to global leadership. It’s the record of a country that should work on global membership first.

Unfortunately, even Mr. Biden’s advisers — who are multilateralists by American standards — have trouble imagining cooperation without dominance. “Whether we like it or not, the world simply does not organize itself,” Mr. Blinken has said. But the United States has discovered what happens “when some other country tries to take our place or, maybe even worse, no one does, and you end up with a vacuum that is filled by bad events.”

But it’s not true that international cooperation collapses without America calling the shots. After the United States announced that it was leaving the Paris climate agreement, not a single other signatory followed it out the door. To the contrary, the European Union, China, Japan and South Korea have recently pledged to make their economies carbon-neutral by at least 2060. This summer, after the Trump administration threatened to leave the World Health Organization, France and Germany promised to increase their contributions.

The point isn’t that American participation in common global efforts is unnecessary. To the contrary — it’s vital. But most of the time, America best serves these efforts less by dictating the rules than by agreeing to them.

Choosing partnership over leadership may strike some as un-American. But it’s what most Americans want. For 20 years, Gallup has been asking Americans whether the United States should play “the leading role,” a “major role,” a “minor role” or “no role at all” in world affairs. By large margins, “major role” always comes in first. This September, when the Chicago Council on Global Affairs asked Americans whether they preferred the United States to play a “dominant” or a “shared” leadership role, “shared” prevailed by almost three to one.

It’s not ordinary Americans who believe the United States must “sit at the head of the table,” as Mr. Biden said last week. It is foreign-policy elites, who often slander public opposition to American primacy as isolationism. But there is a dissident foreign-policy tradition, often championed by those at the forefront of America’s domestic struggles for justice. In his 1967 speech opposing the Vietnam War, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. called the United States government “the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today.” Such a government, he insisted, should not pretend “it has everything to teach others and nothing to learn from them.” Rather than seeking to dominate the world, Dr. King argued, the United States should show “solidarity” with it: first, by curbing its own contributions to global misery and second, by joining with others to battle “poverty, insecurity and injustice.”

The Biden team should make solidarity — not leadership — its watchword for approaching the world. In so doing, it would acknowledge that while the United States can do much to help other nations, its first obligation — especially after the horrors of the Trump era — is to stop doing harm.





No.62 article:
Celebrating Three of America’s Most Beloved Divas

I had just begun writing this letter when my downtown Manhattan neighborhood erupted in sound: people yelling, cars honking, noisemakers blowing. It was Nov. 7, 2020, and the presidential election had finally been called for Joe Biden.

It felt that the joy and relief of that moment weren’t just in celebration of their candidate, however; they were to acknowledge the end of a period of waiting. This entire year has been defined by waiting: for greater clarity about the pandemic, for lockdowns to end, for borders to reopen, for financial relief to arrive, for a turn in the grocery store, for supplies to be delivered, for a vaccine to be approved. These new waits joined old ones, throwing them into sharper relief even for people who for many years were able to ignore them — the wait for racial and economic justice; the wait for equality. That some were still waiting for these fundamental rights after decades of struggling made waiting enraging; that they were waiting amid this new set of existential challenges was almost too much to bear. Would the fates be so cruel as to make us wait for the results of this presidential election, too? Apparently, they were.

When we began planning this issue in the late spring, we intended it as a treat for everyone who has had no choice but to persist through this year. How better to reward ourselves than by honoring three of our most beloved divas, each of whom has brought us so much delight through her music, acting and sheer force of personality? And yet, reading the stories about Patti LaBelle, Dolly Parton and Barbra Streisand, one is struck anew by how much waiting they all had to do themselves; as women in their 70s who entered show business in the early 1960s, they fought for creative control and respect over decades in which women were often denied equity — every female entertainer is in their debt. Along the way, they each became synonymous with an iconic American musical style: the Broadway show tune (Streisand), country (Parton) and soul (LaBelle). The fact that they persevered with both grit and good grace is as much a part of their legacy as are their musical catalogs.

Those qualities are also what the rest of the world has long admired about America — at our best, all of us have persevered with grit and good grace. This doesn’t excuse the fact that some of us have had to persevere for far too long — the fight shouldn’t be this difficult. But these women are a welcome reminder of what this country can produce: people who, against the odds, open their mouths, and still the world with their voice.





No.63 article:
The Children of Pornhub

This article contains descriptions of sexual assault.

Pornhub prides itself on being the cheery, winking face of naughty, the website that buys a billboard in Times Square and provides snow plows to clear Boston streets. It donates to organizations fighting for racial equality and offers steamy content free to get people through Covid-19 shutdowns.

That supposedly “wholesome Pornhub” attracts 3.5 billion visits a month, more than Netflix, Yahoo or Amazon. Pornhub rakes in money from almost three billion ad impressions a day. One ranking lists Pornhub as the 10th-most-visited website in the world.

Yet there’s another side of the company: Its site is infested with rape videos. It monetizes child rapes, revenge pornography, spy cam videos of women showering, racist and misogynist content, and footage of women being asphyxiated in plastic bags. A search for “girls under18” (no space) or “14yo” leads in each case to more than 100,000 videos. Most aren’t of children being assaulted, but too many are.

After a 15-year-old girl went missing in Florida, her mother found her on Pornhub — in 58 sex videos. Sexual assaults on a 14-year-old California girl were posted on Pornhub and were reported to the authorities not by the company but by a classmate who saw the videos. In each case, offenders were arrested for the assaults, but Pornhub escaped responsibility for sharing the videos and profiting from them.

Pornhub is like YouTube in that it allows members of the public to post their own videos. A great majority of the 6.8 million new videos posted on the site each year probably involve consenting adults, but many depict child abuse and nonconsensual violence. Because it’s impossible to be sure whether a youth in a video is 14 or 18, neither Pornhub nor anyone else has a clear idea of how much content is illegal.

Unlike YouTube, Pornhub allows these videos to be downloaded directly from its website. So even if a rape video is removed at the request of the authorities, it may already be too late: The video lives on as it is shared with others or uploaded again and again.

“Pornhub became my trafficker,” a woman named Cali told me. She says she was adopted in the United States from China and then trafficked by her adoptive family and forced to appear in pornographic videos beginning when she was 9. Some videos of her being abused ended up on Pornhub and regularly reappear there, she said.

“I’m still getting sold, even though I’m five years out of that life,” Cali said. Now 23, she is studying in a university and hoping to become a lawyer — but those old videos hang over her.

“I may never be able to get away from this,” she said. “I may be 40 with eight kids, and people are still masturbating to my photos.”

“You type ‘Young Asian’ and you can probably find me,” she added.

Actually, maybe not. Pornhub recently was offering 26,000 videos in response to that search. That doesn’t count videos that show up under “related searches” that Pornhub suggests, including “young tiny teen,” “extra small petite teen,” “tiny Asian teen” or just “young girl.” Nor does it necessarily count videos on a Pornhub channel called “exploited teen Asia.”

The issue is not pornography but rape. Let’s agree that promoting assaults on children or on anyone without consent is unconscionable. The problem with Bill Cosby or Harvey Weinstein or Jeffrey Epstein was not the sex but the lack of consent — and so it is with Pornhub.

I came across many videos on Pornhub that were recordings of assaults on unconscious women and girls. The rapists would open the eyelids of the victims and touch their eyeballs to show that they were nonresponsive.

Pornhub profited this fall from a video of a naked woman being tortured by a gang of men in China. It is monetizing video compilations with titles like “Screaming Teen,” “Degraded Teen” and “Extreme Choking.” Look at a choking video and it may suggest also searching for “She Can’t Breathe.” 

It should be possible to be sex positive and Pornhub negative.

Pornhub declined to make executives available on the record, but it provided a statement. “Pornhub is unequivocally committed to combating child sexual abuse material, and has instituted a comprehensive, industry-leading trust and safety policy to identify and eradicate illegal material from our community,” it said. Pornhub added that any assertion that the company allows child videos on the site “is irresponsible and flagrantly untrue.”

At 14, Serena K. Fleites was an A student in Bakersfield, Calif., who had never made out with a boy. But in the eighth grade she developed a crush on a boy a year older, and he asked her to take a naked video of herself. She sent it to him, and this changed her life.

He asked for another, then another; she was nervous but flattered. “That’s when I started getting strange looks in school,” she remembered. He had shared the videos with other boys, and someone posted them on Pornhub.

Fleites’s world imploded. It’s tough enough to be 14 without having your classmates entertain themselves by looking at you naked, and then mocking you as a slut. “People were texting me, if I didn’t send them a video, they were going to send them to my mom,” she said.

The boy was suspended, but Fleites began skipping class because she couldn’t bear the shame. Her mother persuaded Pornhub to remove the videos, and Fleites switched schools. But rumors reached the new school, and soon the videos were uploaded again to Pornhub and other websites.

Fleites quarreled with her mother and began cutting herself. Then one day she went to the medicine cabinet and took every antidepressant pill she could find.

Three days later, she woke up in the hospital, frustrated to be still alive. Next she hanged herself in the bathroom; her little sister found her, and medics revived her.

As Fleites spiraled downward, a friend introduced her to meth and opioids, and she became addicted to both. She dropped out of school and became homeless.

At 16, she advertised on Craigslist and began selling naked photos and videos of herself. It was a way to make a bit of money, and maybe also a way to punish herself. She thought, “I’m not worth anything any more because everybody has already seen my body,” she told me.

Those videos also ended up on Pornhub. Fleites would ask that they be removed. They usually would be, she says — but then would be uploaded again. One naked video of her at 14 had 400,000 views, she says, leaving her afraid to apply for fast-food jobs for fear that someone would recognize her.

So today Fleites, 19, off drugs for a year but unemployed and traumatized, is living in her car in Bakersfield, along with three dogs that have proved more loyal and loving than the human species. She dreams of becoming a vet technician but isn’t sure how to get there. “It’s kind of hard to go to school when you’re living in a car with dogs,” she said.

“I was dumb,” she acknowledged, noting that she had never imagined that the videos could be shared online. “It was one small thing that a teenager does, and it’s crazy how it turns into something so much bigger.

“A whole life can be changed because of one little mistake.”

The problem goes far beyond one company. Indeed, a rival of Pornhub, XVideos, which arguably has even fewer scruples, may attract more visitors. Depictions of child abuse also appear on mainstream sites like Twitter, Reddit and Facebook. And Google supports the business models of companies that thrive on child molestation.

Google returns 920 million videos on a search for “young porn.” Top hits include a video of a naked “very young teen” engaging in sex acts on XVideo along with a video on Pornhub whose title is unprintable here.

I asked the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to compile the number of images, videos and other content related to child sexual exploitation reported to it each year. In 2015, it received reports of 6.5 million videos or other files; in 2017, 20.6 million; and in 2019, 69.2 million.

Facebook removed 12.4 million images related to child exploitation in a three-month period this year. Twitter closed 264,000 accounts in six months last year for engaging in sexual exploitation of children. By contrast, Pornhub notes that the Internet Watch Foundation, an England-based nonprofit that combats child sexual abuse imagery, reported only 118 instances of child sexual abuse imagery on its site over almost three years, seemingly a negligible figure. “Eliminating illegal content is an ongoing battle for every modern content platform, and we are committed to remaining at the forefront,” Pornhub said in its statement.

The Internet Watch Foundation couldn’t explain why its figure for Pornhub is so low. Perhaps it’s because people on Pornhub are inured to the material and unlikely to report it. But if you know what to look for, it’s possible to find hundreds of apparent child sexual abuse videos on Pornhub in 30 minutes. Pornhub has recently offered playlists with names including “less than 18,” “the best collection of young boys” and “under- - age.”

Congress and successive presidents have done almost nothing as this problem has grown. The tech world that made it possible has been mostly passive, in a defensive crouch. But pioneering reporting in 2019 by my Times colleagues has prodded Congress to begin debating competing strategies to address child exploitation.

Concerns about Pornhub are bubbling up. A petition to shut the site down has received 2.1 million signatures. Senator Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican, called on the Justice Department to investigate Pornhub. PayPal cut off services for the company, and credit card companies have been asked to do the same. An organization called Traffickinghub, led by an activist named Laila Mickelwait, documents abuses and calls for the site to be shut down. Twenty members of Canada’s Parliament have called on their government to crack down on Pornhub, which is effectively based in Montreal.

“They made money off my pain and suffering,” an 18-year-old woman named Taylor told me. A boyfriend secretly made a video of her performing a sex act when she was 14, and it ended up on Pornhub, the police confirmed. “I went to school the next day and everybody was looking at their phones and me as I walked down the hall,” she added, weeping as she spoke. “They were laughing.”

Taylor said she has twice attempted suicide because of the humiliation and trauma. Like others quoted here, she agreed to tell her story and help document it because she thought it might help other girls avoid suffering as she did.

Pornhub is owned by Mindgeek, a private pornography conglomerate with more than 100 websites, production companies and brands. Its sites include Redtube, Youporn, XTube, SpankWire, ExtremeTube, Men.com, My Dirty Hobby, Thumbzilla, PornMD, Brazzers and GayTube. There are other major players in porn outside the Mindgeek umbrella, most notably XHamster and XVideos, but Mindgeek is a porn titan. If it operated in another industry, the Justice Department could be discussing an antitrust case against it.

Pornhub and Mindgeek also stand out because of their influence. One study this year by a digital marketing company concluded that Pornhub was the technology company with the third greatest-impact on society in the 21st century, after Facebook and Google but ahead of Microsoft, Apple and Amazon.

Nominally based in Luxembourg for tax reasons, Mindgeek is a private company run from Montreal. It does not disclose who owns it, but it is led by Feras Antoon and David Tassillo, both Canadians, who declined to be interviewed.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada calls himself a feminist and has been proud of his government’s efforts to empower women worldwide. So a question for Trudeau and all Canadians: Why does Canada host a company that inflicts rape videos on the world?

Mindgeek’s moderators are charged with filtering out videos of children, but its business model profits from sex videos starring young people.

“The goal for a content moderator is to let as much content as possible go through,” a former Mindgeek employee told me. He said he believed that the top executives weren’t evil but were focused above all on maximizing revenue.

While Pornhub would not tell me how many moderators it employs, I interviewed one who said that there are about 80 worldwide who work on Mindgeek sites (by comparison, Facebook told me it has 15,000 moderators). With 1.36 million new hours of video uploaded a year to Pornhub, that means that each moderator would have to review hundreds of hours of content each week.

The moderators fast forward through videos, but it’s often difficult to assess whether a person is 14 or 18, or whether torture is real or fake. Most of the underage content involves teenagers, the moderator I spoke with said, but some comes from spy cams in toilets or changing rooms and shows children only 8 to 12.

“The job in itself is soul-destroying,” the moderator said.

Pornhub appears to be increasingly alarmed about civil or criminal liability. Lawyers are circling, and nine women sued the company in federal court after spy cam videos surfaced on Pornhub. The videos were shot in a locker room at Limestone College in South Carolina and showed women showering and changing clothes.

Executives of Pornhub appear in the past to have assumed that they enjoyed immunity under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which protects internet platforms on which members of the public post content. But in 2018 Congress limited Section 230 so that it may not be enough to shield the company, leading Mindgeek to behave better.

It has doubled the number of moderators in the last couple of years, the moderator told me, and this year Pornhub began voluntarily reporting illegal material to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. After previously dragging its feet in removing videos of children and nonconsensual content, Pornhub now is responding more rapidly.

It has also compiled a list of banned content. I obtained a copy of this list, and it purports to bar videos with terms or themes like “rape,” “preteen,” “pedophilia” and “bestiality” (it helpfully clarifies that this “includes eels, fish, octopus, insects”). Diapers are OK “if no scatophilia.” Mutilation depends on context but “cannot depict severing parts of the body.”

So while it is now no longer possible to search on Pornhub in English using terms like “underage” or “rape,” the company hasn’t tried hard to eliminate such videos. A member called “13yoboyteen” is allowed to post videos. A search for “r*pe,” turns up 1,901 videos. “Girl with braces” turns up 1,913 videos and suggests also trying “exxxtra small teens.” A search for “13yo” generates 155,000 videos. To be clear, most aren’t of 13-year-olds, but the fact that they’re promoted with that language seems to reflect an effort to attract pedophiles.

Moreover, some videos seem at odds with the list of banned content. “Runaway Girl Gets Ultimatum, Anal or the Streets” is the title of one Pornhub video. Another user posts videos documenting sex with teenage girls as they weep, protest and cry out in pain.

While Pornhub is becoming more careful about videos of potentially litigious Americans, it remains cavalier about overseas victims. One Indonesian video is titled “Junior High School Girl After Class” and shows what appears to be a young teenager having sex. A Chinese sex video, just taken down, was labeled: “Beautiful High School Girl Is Tricked by Classmates and Taken to the Top of a Building Where She Is Insulted and Raped.”

“They’re making money off the worst moment in my life, off my body,” a Colombian teenager who asked to be called Xela, a nickname, told me. Two American men paid her when she was 16 for a sexual encounter that they filmed and then posted on Pornhub. She was one of several Pornhub survivors who told me they had thought of or attempted suicide.

In the last few days as I was completing this article, two new videos of prepubescent girls being assaulted were posted, along with a sex video of a 15-year-old girl who was suicidal after it went online. I don’t see how good-faith moderators could approve any of these videos.

“It’s always going to be online,” Nicole, a British woman who has had naked videos of herself posted and reposted on Pornhub, told me. “That’s my big fear of having kids, them seeing this.”

That’s a recurring theme among survivors: An assault eventually ends, but Pornhub renders the suffering interminable.

Naked videos of Nicole at 15 were posted on Pornhub. Now 19, she has been trying for two years to get them removed.

“Why do videos of me from when I was 15 years old and blackmailed, which is child porn, continuously [get] uploaded?” Nicole protested plaintively to Pornhub last year, in a message. “You really need a better system. … I tried to kill myself multiple times after finding myself reuploaded on your website.”

Nicole’s lawyer, Dani Pinter, says there are still at least three naked videos of Nicole at age 15 or 16 on Pornhub that they are trying to get removed.

“It’s never going to end,” Nicole said. “They’re getting so much money from our trauma.”

Pornhub has introduced software that supposedly can “fingerprint” rape videos and prevent them from being uploaded again. But Vice showed how this technology is easily circumvented on Pornhub.

One Pornhub scandal involved the Girls Do Porn production company, which recruited young women for clothed modeling gigs and then pushed them to perform in sex videos, claiming that the videos would be sold only as DVDs in other countries and would never go online. Reassured that no one would ever know, some of the women agreed — and then were shattered when the footage was aggressively marketed on Pornhub.

Girls Do Porn was prosecuted for sex trafficking and shut down. But those videos continue to surface and resurface on Pornhub; last time I checked, videos of six victims of Girls Do Porn were on Pornhub, which continues to profit from them.

One of the Girls Do Porn women I saw on Pornhub is now dead. She was murdered at 20, allegedly by an angry ex-boyfriend who is about to go on trial. I’m not disclosing her name because she should be remembered as a vibrant college athlete, and not for a sex video that represented her most mortifying moment.

So what’s the solution?

I had expected the survivors to want to shut down Pornhub and send its executives to prison. Some did, but others were more nuanced. Lydia, now 20, was trafficked as a child and had many rape videos posted on the site. “My stomach hurts all the time” from the tension, she told me, but she doesn’t want to come across as hostile to porn itself.

“I don’t want people to hear ‘No porn!’” Lydia told me. “It’s more like, ‘Stop hurting kids.’”

Susan Padron told me that she had assumed that pornography was consensual, until a boyfriend filmed her in a sex act when she was 15 and posted it on Pornhub. She has struggled since and believes that only people who have confirmed their identities should be allowed to post videos.

Jessica Shumway, who was trafficked and had a customer post a sex video on Pornhub, agrees: “They need to figure out who’s underage in the videos and that there’s consent from everybody in it.”

I asked Leo, 18, who had videos of himself posted on Pornhub when he was 14, what he suggested.

“That’s tough,” he said. “My solution would be to leave porn to professional production companies,” because they require proof of age and consent.

Right now, those companies can’t compete with mostly free sites like Pornhub and XVideos.

“Pornhub has already destroyed the business model for pay sites,” said Stoya, an adult film actress and writer. She, too, thinks all platforms — from YouTube to Pornhub — should require proof of consent to upload videos of private individuals.

Columnists are supposed to offer answers, but I struggle with solutions. If Pornhub curated videos more rigorously, the most offensive material might just move to the dark web or to websites in less regulated countries. Yet at least they would then not be normalized on a mainstream site.

More pressure and less impunity would help. We’re already seeing that limiting Section 230 immunity leads to better self-policing.

And call me a prude, but I don’t see why search engines, banks or credit card companies should bolster a company that monetizes sexual assaults on children or unconscious women. If PayPal can suspend cooperation with Pornhub, so can American Express, Mastercard and Visa.

I don’t see any neat solution. But aside from limiting immunity so that companies are incentivized to behave better, here are three steps that would help: 1.) Allow only verified users to post videos. 2.) Prohibit downloads. 3.) Increase moderation.

These measures wouldn’t kill porn or much bother consumers of it; YouTube thrives without downloads. Siri Dahl, a prominent porn star who does business with Pornhub, told me that my three proposals are “insanely reasonable.”

The world has often been oblivious to child sexual abuse, from the Catholic Church to the Boy Scouts. Too late, we prosecute individuals like Jeffrey Epstein or R. Kelly. But we should also stand up to corporations that systematically exploit children. With Pornhub, we have Jeffrey Epstein times 1,000.

If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.

HOLIDAY-GIVING UPDATE: Many thanks to my readers, who have donated more than $4.2 million to the three organizations in my annual holiday giving guide column two weeks ago. One of the nonprofits sends girls to school in sub-Saharan Africa; another helps low-income American students finish high school and begin college; and a third restores sight to people with cataracts in Asia and Africa. More information is at KristofImpact.org.





No.64 article:
The Week in Business: The Future of Chicken, and More Stimulus Chatter

A big step for lab-grown meat. A smaller step toward stimulus talks. And a sprint to stop vaccine misinformation.

It’s officially the holiday season, and you’d better get your online shopping done early — the overworked United States Postal Service slapped temporary shipping limits on retailers like Gap and Nike, a sign that delivery systems are bursting at their seams. Here’s what else you need to know about business and tech for the week ahead. 

For months, lawmakers have lectured one another on the need for more pandemic stimulus but have done nothing about it. Now it seems that negotiations are gearing up again — but if we’ve learned anything from the past few months, it’s this: Be skeptical. Congressional Democrats put forth a $908 billion proposal from a bipartisan group of lawmakers as the basis for talks with Republicans and the White House. (That’s lot of money, sure, but still less than half of what Democrats initially proposed — a major concession.) The proposal puts new pressure on Senate Republicans to broker a deal by the end of the year. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who’s made stimulus a cornerstone of his economic recovery plan, called the measure “urgent” on Friday.

Google fired four employees last year after they got involved with labor organizing at the company. Now a federal agency says that two of the firings violated federal labor laws against union-busting. Google will likely settle the case out of court, but if not, it will go before a judge, who could compel the company to rehire the two workers and give them back pay for the months since they were dismissed. In related news, a Google researcher came forward this week and said she was fired for criticizing the company’s approach to minority hiring and for calling attention to biases in its artificial intelligence systems.

The government’s Paycheck Protection Program was meant to funnel aid to millions of small businesses so that they could pay their bills during the coronavirus pandemic. But new data shows what many applicants already suspected: Most of the funding went to a tiny fraction of those who needed it. A report from the Small Business Administration revealed that 1 percent of the program’s 5.2 million borrowers received more than a quarter of the $523 billion that was distributed. As for the other 99 percent? Many businesses received much less than what they applied for, and have struggled all the more since the program ended in August.

Staring down a long, potentially locked-down winter, it seems like the coronavirus vaccine can’t get here fast enough. And with several promising candidates on deck, it’s just a matter of weeks before the first batch becomes available. The next challenge: convincing Americans to trust the vaccine. Facebook said this week it would start removing posts that contain claims about the vaccines that have been debunked by public health experts, such as rumors that they contain microchips. It’s an aggressive step for the platform, which has previously dealt with falsehoods by making them harder to share — not taking them down altogether. In other Facebook news, the company has been accused by the Justice Department of discriminating against American workers and favoring immigrant visa-holders instead.

If you weren’t familiar with the messaging tool Slack before the pandemic, chances are your work-from-home days are now filled with it. And the tech conglomerate Salesforce now wants to capitalize on its ubiquity: The company announced this week that it would buy Slack for $27.7 billion in cash and stock. If the deal goes through, it will end Slack’s short run as an independent publicly traded company (it went public in mid-2019), and mark Salesforce’s largest acquisition since it was founded 21 years ago.

A San Francisco company that makes “cultured meat” (i.e. grown from animal cells in a lab, not on farms) has received approval to sell its chicken product in Singapore. It’s a big step for the lab-grown meat industry, which is small but has big ambitions to create more sustainable food sources with a lower carbon footprint. Livestock accounts for almost 15 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions, about the same percentage as the transportation industry (including planes, ships and cars). If the chicken catches on — and that’s a big if — other countries may follow Singapore’s example.

Warner Bros. will make its entire 2021 film slate (17 movies) available to stream on HBO Max on the same day that they come out in theaters — a major shift in how Hollywood normally does business, and a sign of how the pandemic has forced the entertainment industry to adapt.

Jobs data from November showed that the unemployment rate declined to 6.7 percent, from the previous month’s rate of 6.9 percent. But that number doesn’t tell the whole story, as it doesn’t include people who have dropped out of the labor force (say, to provide child care) and are not actively searching for work. Unemployment claims did drop last week for the first time in a month, but that could be because the Thanksgiving holiday delayed the filing of claims.





No.65 article:
Corrections: Dec. 6, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Sunday, Dec. 6, 2020.

Because of a transcription error, an article last Sunday about cannabis farms facing a devastating wildfire season misidentified the location of Sweet Creek Farm. It is in Guerneville, Calif., not Greenville.

The hardcover fiction best-seller list and the combined print and e-book fiction list last week, using information from the publisher, misstated in some issues the title of a mystery that plays a role in Anthony Horowitz’s new thriller, “Moonflower Murders.” It is “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case,” not “Atticus Pund Takes the Cake.”

An article last Sunday on Indigenous podcasts referred incorrectly at several points to the podcast host Sterlin Harjo. He is a man. An article in the same issue about the new rules for this year’s ski season misstated the price of renting out the entire Eagle Point resort in Utah. It is $15,000 a day, not $10,000. Another article in the issue, about writing a form of poetry called a cento, misstated the century that the word cento came into use. It was the third century, not the 16th. And an article about bar trivia games moving online misspelled the name of a founder of the Learned League trivia site. He is Shayne Bushfield, not Busfield.

An article on Nov. 26 by Pope Francis misidentified the source of a quoted line by Friedrich Hölderlin. It is “Patmos,” not “Hyperion.”

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





