No.1 article:
Patients of a Vermont Hospital Are Left ‘in the Dark’ After a Cyberattack

A wave of damaging attacks on hospitals upended the lives of patients with cancer and other ailments. “I have no idea what to do,” one said.

At lunchtime on Oct. 28, Colleen Cargill was in the cancer center at the University of Vermont Medical Center, preparing patients for their chemotherapy infusions. A new patient will sometimes be teary and frightened, but the nurses try to make it welcoming, offering trail mix and a warm blanket, a seat with a view of a garden.

Then they work with extreme precision: checking platelet and white blood cell counts, measuring each dosage to a milligram per square foot of body area, before settling the person into a port and hooking them up to an IV.

That day, though, Ms. Cargill did a double-take: When she tried to log in to her work station, it booted her out. Then it happened again. She turned to the system of pneumatic tubes used to transport lab work. What she saw there was a red caution symbol, a circle with a cross. She walked to the backup computer. It was down, too.

“I wasn’t panicky,” she said, “and then I noticed my cordless phone didn’t work.” That was, she said, the beginning of the worst 10 days of her career.

Cyberattacks on America’s health systems have become their own kind of pandemic over the past year as Russian cybercriminals have shut down clinical trials and treatment studies for the coronavirus vaccine and cut off hospitals’ access to patient records, demanding multimillion-dollar ransoms for their return.

Complicating the response, President Trump last week fired Christopher Krebs, the director of CISA, the cybersecurity agency responsible for defending critical systems, including hospitals and elections, against cyberattacks, after Mr. Krebs disputed Mr. Trump’s baseless claims of voter fraud.

The attacks have largely unfolded in private, as hospitals scramble to restore their systems — or to quietly pay the ransom — without releasing information that could compromise an F.B.I. investigation.

But they have had a devastating and long-lasting effect, particularly on cancer patients, said workers and patients from Vermont’s largest medical system. Its electronic medical record system was restored on Sunday, nearly a month after the cyberattack.

In the interim, clinicians were forced to send away hundreds of cancer patients, said Olivia Thompson, a nurse at the cancer center.

The staff fell back on written notes and faxes, leafing through masses of paper to access vital information. They tried to reconstruct complex chemotherapy protocols from memory.

And while the hospital has taken pains to reassure patients that most care could proceed, some staff members worry that the full damage of the October attack is not well understood.

“To recover from something like this is going to take months and months and months,” Ms. Thompson said. “It feels like we are all alone and no one understands how dire this is.”

Elise Legere, a nurse at the cancer center, said she could compare the past weeks to only one experience — working in a burn unit after the Boston Marathon bombing — and has often found herself wondering about the motivation behind the cyberattack.

“It’s like asking what’s the point of putting a bomb in an elementary school, what is the point?” she said. “There is a lot of evil in the world. Whoever did orchestrate this attack knows a lot about how devastating it is.”

The latest wave of attacks, which hit about a dozen hospitals in the United States, was believed to have been conducted by a particularly powerful group of Russian-speaking hackers that deployed ransomware via TrickBot, a vast network of infected computers used for cyberattacks, according to security researchers who are tracking the attacks.

The hackers typically work for profit. The F.B.I. estimated that the cybercriminals, who use ransomware called “Ryuk,” took in more than $61 million in ransom over a period of 21 months in 2018 and 2019, a record.

The attacks slowed last spring, when cybercriminals agreed among themselves to avoid hacking hospitals amid the pandemic, security researchers said. But just ahead of the presidential election, the groups resumed.

“In the past, they targeted organizations all over the world, but this time they were very specifically aiming for hospitals in the United States,” said Alex Holden, the chief executive of Hold Security, a Milwaukee firm.

The F.B.I. says it will not comment on the attacks, citing ongoing investigations.

Mr. Holden and other cybersecurity experts say that the targets and the timing — just weeks after the United States targeted TrickBot — suggest that one possible motivation could be retaliation.

In late September and October, fearing that cybercriminals could use ransomware to disrupt the election, the Pentagon’s Cyber Command started hacking TrickBot’s systems. Microsoft pursued the systems in federal court, successfully dismantling 94 percent of TrickBot’s servers.

The takedowns relegated TrickBot’s operators to “a wounded animal lashing out,” Mr. Holden said. His firm captured online messages sent among the group, including a list of 400 American hospitals they planned to target, and informed law enforcement.

“We expect panic,” one hacker wrote, in Russian.

U.S. officials warned hospitals about a “credible threat” of attacks on Oct. 23, and then an unusual cluster of attacks on hospitals took place. Several hospital networks — including The University of Vermont Health Network and the St. Lawrence County health system in New York — have said they received no ransom note.

Others reported ransom demands “in eight figures, which is just not something that regional health care systems can do,” said Allan Liska, an analyst with Recorded Future, a cybersecurity firm. These unusual demands, combined with the coordination of the attacks, make “it seem that it was meant to be a disruptive attack” rather than a profit-seeking one, he said.

Mr. Holden said many of the health systems opted to negotiate with their extortionists, even as ransoms jump into the millions.

“A great number of victims are dealing with these attacks on their own,” he said.

In Vermont, the damage radiated out through a sprawling network, hitting especially hard in the cancer center.

“My really good friends are I.C.U. nurses, and they’re like, no big deal, all we have to do is paper charting,” Ms. Cargill, the charge nurse, said. But the cancer center was badly set back for weeks, able to serve only about one in four of its normal chemotherapy patients.

Ms. Cargill spent the rest of the day turning away patients, an experience she cannot relate without beginning to cry, nearly a month later.

“To look someone in the eye, and tell them they cannot have their life-extending or lifesaving treatment, it was horrible, and totally heart-wrenching,” she said. The very first person she turned away, a young woman, burst into tears.

“She said, ‘I have to get chemo, I am the mother of two young kids,’” Ms. Cargill said. “She was so fearful, and the fear was tangible.”

In the days that followed, clinicians attempted to prioritize patients and recreate chemotherapy protocols from memory, gradually aided by backup chart information, said Ms. Legere, a nurse navigator in the unit.

“They were trying to remember everything they knew about a patient, but none of that is accurate,” she said. “Our brains are not designed to be electronic medical records. That’s not safe, and we all know it.”

Patients, she said, “feel very in the dark about when they will get treated,” and many cancer patients who live in rural areas do not have the resources to drive four hours to Boston for treatment.

“Vermont feels intentional, it feels scouted in the sense that it would cause a ton of panic,” she said. “The federal and statewide response is where I’m feeling very deserted. Maybe there’s stuff I don’t see.”

Lawmakers have also accused the Trump administration of marring the federal response.

In an email to The New York Times, Senator Gary Peters, a Democrat of Michigan and member of the Homeland Security Committee, called the president’s firing of Mr. Krebs unacceptable, adding that it caused instability at his agency as it tried to mitigate the hospital attacks amid a surging pandemic.

Administrators at the University of Vermont Health Network acknowledge that restoring services proved far more challenging than they expected.

“If you look at what some other hospitals have gone through, it was days, not weeks,” said Al Gobeille, the system’s executive vice president for operations. “We thought that was what this would be. And we were wrong.”

He said a large number of professionals on information technology — 300 hospital employees, plus 10 members of the National Guard — were deployed to rebuild and clean 1,300 servers and 5,000 laptops and desktop computers. A team of seven F.B.I. investigators was on site for two days after the shutdown, he said, but has had little to no contact with administrators since then.

With the restoration of the electronic patient record system, he said, the hospital’s systems are 75 to 80 percent recovered.

The motivation behind the attack remains unclear. At a news conference last month, Dr. Stephen Leffler, the president of the medical center, said he had received no request for ransom. Since then, though, at the request of the F.B.I., administrators have carefully avoided discussing the matter of ransom, or confirming Dr. Leffler’s statement.

Dr. Leffler, he said, “was saying what he knew at the time,” Mr. Gobeille said.

“The F.B.I. has asked us not to talk about that part of the investigation, and I haven’t said either way,” he said. “I’m a pretty transparent person, so it’s odd to say the F.B.I. has asked me not to talk about it. It’s not who we are. But in this case, I understand why.”

Some patients have complained that they were left dangling, uncertain when their treatment would resume.

Sean McCaffrey, 37, who was scheduled to see a cardiologist on the afternoon of the cyberattack — he had been suffering from chest pains — said he had never been contacted to reschedule the appointment.

“It’s really troublesome because I have lost some faith in my local hospital,” he said. “I was told I’d get a call. It’s been three weeks, and I have no idea what to do.”

Others say they are still waiting to gain access to critical scans. Two days before the shutdown, Damian Mooney, 47, had received a radiologist’s notes on an M.R.I. of his shoulder, which suggested that an aggressive bone cancer may have returned.

The scans have been unavailable since the cyberattack, so no doctor has been able to say whether the radiologist was correct, said his wife, Kat.

“For 26 days, we’ve been sitting here going, ’We don’t know whether this recurred or not,’” she said.

It will be difficult, both for patients and staff members, to regain their sense of security, said Jennifer Long, an outpatient nurse at the medical center.

She and her colleagues, she said, sometimes wonder aloud what allowed the hackers to get into the system: “Is it the kid down the street? Is it someone in another country? Was it an email I sent? Was it the last page I opened?”

“You’re left with that feeling — it’s kind of sickening, it’s very impersonal — knowing that this was a deliberate attack, without any regard for the consequences, and the potential for harm,” she said. “It really stings. It’s really hard to sit with it.”





No.2 article:
A Mother, Her Son — and Their 1,500-Mile Search for Home

BOGOTÁ, Colombia — A little boy charges along the highway, his red plastic shoes glowing in the twilight. The suitcase he pulls weighs almost as much as he does. A truck throttles by, threatening to blow him off his feet. But Sebastián Ventura, who at just 6 has already taken on the role of family cheerleader, urges his family on.

“To Venezuela!” he shouts.

His mother, four months pregnant, rushes to keep up. There are hundreds of people on the highway that night, all Venezuelans who had fled their country’s collapse before the pandemic and found refuge in Colombia. Now, after losing their jobs amid the economic crash that followed the virus, they are trying desperately to get back home, where at least they can rely on family.

The global health crisis wrought by the coronavirus has played out most visibly in hospitals and cemeteries, its devastating toll clocked in cases and deaths, its aftermath tracked in lost work and shuttered businesses.

But a second, less visible aspect of the catastrophe has unfolded on the world’s highways, as millions of migrants — Afghans, Ethiopians, Nicaraguans, Ukrainians and others — have lost work in their adopted countries and headed home.

The fortunate ones have found a haven upon return. But many have run out of money along the way, have been rejected at border crossings or have arrived in war-torn countries only to find their past lives burned to the ground.

And so they have kept on moving.

International aid groups have begun to call these people the pandemic’s “stranded migrants” — men, women and children who have been trying to get home since the virus began to spread. The International Organization for Migration said recently there are at least 2.75 million of them.

Among the most affected have been Venezuelans, who even before the pandemic formed one of the largest migration waves in the world. As the oil-rich nation crumbled in the grip of its authoritarian leader, Nicolás Maduro, hunger became widespread and nearly five million people fled.

But when the virus hit, Venezuelans living abroad were often the first to lose jobs in their adopted nations, the first to be evicted from pay-per-day apartments in cities like Lima, Quito, and Bogotá, Colombia’s capital.

In the first months of the pandemic, more than 100,000 Venezuelans left Colombia, according to immigration authorities. Others poured out of neighboring countries.

Over six months, Sebastián and his mother, Jessika Loaiza, traveled more than 1,500 miles, nearly all of it on foot — first from Colombia to Venezuela, and then, unable to find a safe harbor, to Colombia again.

They began their journey in Bogotá in early May, headed to the small home they owned in northern Venezuela.

Jessika, 23, said they had left Venezuela the year before, escaping the violence that had consumed her neighborhood. Local criminals had killed her husband, she said, leaving her a widow at 22.

In Bogotá, she found work at a florist, making bouquets for weddings and parties. She loved it.

“I had an excellent job,” she says. “From now on, I want this to be my art.”

Sebastián started school and began to learn to read.

But when the pandemic hit, the shop closed, and she lost her work. They began sleeping on the street.

Jessika didn’t want to leave Colombia. But she hoped that, back home, she could live rent free, rely on government help and outrun the cascading effects of a spreading pandemic.

Pausing on the side of the highway on one of her first nights on the road, her eyes dart toward the growing darkness, then to her son.

She is worried about where they will sleep.

“Let’s walk,” she says.

Her family follows. With her and Sebastián is her new partner, Javier; her mother, Peggy; her brother, Jesús; and her sister-in-law, Grelymar, also pregnant.

Cars roar past. Sebastián’s suitcase scrapes the uneven pavement, the soundtrack to his new life.

They have been on the road since dawn, but he is buoyant, racing along the shoulder like a Boy Scout on his first adventure, eager to show off what he knows, to question what he doesn’t.

“This is the place where the train passes,” he says, stopping on a bridge above the tracks, leaning perilously over a ledge, trying to understand where the train comes from — and where it is going.

He knows that they are escaping something bad, he says. “The virus,” he explains, “it kills people.”

They must be headed to something better, he reasons. Right?

Each day, they walk until their feet turn numb, beg for meals, camp on the roadside, hide from the police patrolling for quarantine breakers.

And each night, Jessika scans the horizon for a safe place to sleep — a covered porch, a thicket in the forest — refusing to stop until they find one.

It is June — 32 days and 250 miles since they left — and Jessika’s T-shirt stretches thin over her balloon of a belly. Sebastián is skinnier, browned by the sun.

They are in Bucaramanga, 120 miles from the Venezuelan border. Hundreds of families — all pandemic migrants — crowd the edge of a park, anxious to get home. Smugglers offer rides to the border in exchange for telephones, clothing.

There, Jessika’s mother, Peggy, makes a call and learns that their house in Venezuela has been taken over by the same criminals that ran them out the year before. Peggy begins to cry.

“We can’t go back,” she says.

Stuck now between two countries and two lost homes, they decide to press on, handing the money they have left, $30, to a smuggler. When he tells them it’s not enough, Jessika’s brother, Jesús, removes his shoes. He hands those over, then scrambles barefoot into a crowded cargo truck, with the others.

It is after midnight when the truck begins its climb into the mountains. It speeds over a frigid pass. Passengers vomit. At dawn, they pull to a stop by a river, a six-hour walk from the border.

“Get out,” yells the smuggler. “This is as far as we go.”

Sebastián stretches his short legs. They are back on the road.

Jessika’s hopes swell as they near the border — her country! — then shatter the moment they cross.

In Venezuela, she learns the government has been using its repressive security apparatus to try to control the virus. In the border town of San Antonio del Táchira, officials corral her and her family into a detention center. They are given coronavirus tests and cots in a tent with 600 others. There, they sleep under military guard for days.

Each morning, Sebastián’s concern is what they will eat. Meal lines are long, and there’s never enough. There are no forks or knives, and so they feed themselves with their identity cards, cutting with the sharp side, spooning with the flat side.

Sebastián’s anxiety hits a fever pitch. He asks his grandmother constantly where they will live, what they will eat and when he can return to his classroom.

On Day 17 of detention, men in white begin calling names of returnees who have tested positive for the virus. “Jesús Loaiza!” one announces. As the men take Uncle Jesús away, Sebastián begins to scream.

After a month, the Venezuelan government lets them go. Jesús rejoins the family and they head to Grelymar’s grandmother’s home, with its pink walls and flower-print curtains, in the city of San Felipe.

They soon discover a Venezuela in far worse condition than the one they left. With quarantines in place, jobs are scarce and gasoline is almost impossible to find. Mr. Maduro has consolidated power in recent months; the prospect of a political transition, of any sort of change, feels more distant than ever.

One morning, the refrigerator holds two eggs, a piece of cheese and a bit of rice.

Desperate, Jessika, her partner, Javier, and Sebastián move in with Javier’s mother, on a small farm in the town of Sabaneta — the birthplace of Hugo Chávez, the father of Venezuela’s socialist-inspired revolution. There are 15 of them, including Javier’s brothers, their wives and children.

Sebastián’s legs have turned to sticks. He tries to play with the other children, but breaks away to plead to his mother.

“Mom, I’m hungry,” he tells her. “Mom, there’s nothing here.”

Jessika begins to replay the events of the past few months. All that walking, all those days in the rain, the cold, had amounted to nothing. Venezuela is in free fall.

At least in Colombia there is the chance of a recovery.

Jessika is eight-and-a-half months pregnant. She calls her mother to tell her she is going to walk the 600 miles back to Bogotá.

“With that belly?” her mother says.

“I came like this,” she responds, “and I’ll return like this.”

It is September. On the road, Sebastián recovers some of his old buoyancy. And once again, the highway is filled with Venezuelans.

The Colombian economy is on edge, coronavirus cases are rising and unemployment has surged. Officially, the border between the two countries is closed. But thousands of Venezuelans are streaming back to Colombia on illegal paths, having seen the conditions at home and hoping against many odds that they will find work in the cities they left behind.

Colombian officials say they expect 80 percent of those who left early in the pandemic to return. When the border reopens, they predict, 200,000 Venezuelans will enter Colombia in the first three months alone.

“What we’re searching for is a future,” says Javier.

They are once again in Bucaramanga, 250 miles from Bogotá, sharing a brick-walled room with a single bed, when Jessika’s water breaks and she begins to bleed. Javier hustles her up a steep hill, to a hospital. After weeks of bravery, Jessika is terrified.

Why is there so much blood? What has all that walking done to her child?

Doctors wheel her into the operating room, and, just after midnight, deliver her baby boy. Josnaiber Xavier Morillo Loaiza is underweight — barely five pounds — but healthy.

Outside the hospital, Javier is worried. They have no home, no jobs, not even money for the alcohol Jessika will need to clean the incision on her belly from the cesarean section.

“Could it be that I will never have a home?” Javier says. “That I will never be able to rest?”

But Jessika is unwavering. Hours after giving birth, she says she plans to wait until the doctor removes her stitches. “Then I’ll get up and keep on walking.”

Six months after leaving Bogotá, Jessika, Javier and Sebastián step off a bus at the city’s Salitre terminal. The driver, seeing the infant, had given them a ride.

Jessika, just days from her 24th birthday, hugs Josnaiber to her chest. Javier’s bag is so broken that it is held together by string. Sebastián’s shoes are worn nearly through their plastic soles.

But he bounces through the terminal, electrified by their return.

Colombia’s economy has begun to reopen. In the morning, they’ll message the florist, and Jessika will ask for her job back. But that evening, with nowhere else to go, they curl up to sleep under a footbridge, inches from an eight-lane highway, homeless for one more night.





No.3 article:
Midnight Ruling Exposes Rifts at a Supreme Court Transformed by Trump

The justices issued six opinions, several of them unusually bitter, in upholding challenges from churches and synagogues to state pandemic restrictions on religious services.

WASHINGTON — A few minutes before midnight on Wednesday, the nation got its first glimpse of how profoundly President Trump had transformed the Supreme Court.

Just months ago, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. was at the peak of his power, holding the controlling vote in closely divided cases and almost never finding himself in dissent. But the arrival of Justice Amy Coney Barrett late last month, which put a staunch conservative in the seat formerly held by the liberal mainstay, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, meant that it was only a matter of time before the chief justice’s leadership would be tested.

On Wednesday, Justice Barrett dealt the chief justice a body blow. She cast the decisive vote in a 5-to-4 ruling that rejected restrictions on religious services in New York imposed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to combat the coronavirus, shoving the chief justice into dissent with the court’s three remaining liberals. It was one of six opinions the court issued on Wednesday, spanning 33 pages and opening a window on a court in turmoil.

The ruling was at odds with earlier ones in cases from California and Nevada issued before Justice Ginsburg’s death in September. Those decisions upheld restrictions on church services by 5-to-4 votes, with Chief Justice Roberts in the majority. The New York decision said that Mr. Cuomo’s strict virus limits — capping attendance at religious services at 10 people in “red zones” where risk was highest, and at 25 in slightly less dangerous “orange zones” — violated the First Amendment’s protection of the free exercise of religion.

Wednesday’s ruling was almost certainly a taste of things to come. While Justice Ginsburg was alive, Chief Justice Roberts voted with the court’s four-member liberal wing in cases striking down a restrictive Louisiana abortion law, blocking a Trump administration initiative that would have rolled back protections for young immigrants known as Dreamers, refusing to allow a question on citizenship to be added to the census and saving the Affordable Care Act.

Had Justice Barrett rather than Justice Ginsburg been on the court when those cases were decided, the results might well have flipped. In coming cases, too, Justice Barrett will almost certainly play a decisive role. Her support for claims of religious freedom, a subject of questioning at her confirmation hearings and a theme in her appellate decisions, will almost certainly play a prominent role.

Democrats had feared, and Mr. Trump had predicted, that Justice Barrett’s vote might be crucial in a case arising from the presidential election. But there is no case on the court’s docket or on the horizon that has a realistic potential to alter the outcome.

It is not clear how Justice Barrett will vote in the latest challenge to the Affordable Care Act, which was argued this month. But, judging from the questioning, the act is quite likely to survive however she votes.

Chief Justice Roberts is fundamentally conservative, and his liberal votes have been rare. But they reinforced his frequent statements that the court is not a political body. The court’s new and solid conservative majority may send a different message.

That said, the court’s dynamics can be complicated, and not all decisions break along predictable lines. For instance, while Chief Justice Roberts has lost his place at the court’s ideological center, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, who was the second of Mr. Trump’s three court appointments, values consensus and may turn out to be an occasional ally.

On Wednesday, Justice Kavanaugh issued a conciliatory concurring opinion emphasizing that he agreed with much of what Chief Justice Roberts had written in dissent. 

“I part ways with the chief justice,” he wrote, “on a narrow procedural point.” That point — whether the court should act immediately, notwithstanding Mr. Cuomo’s decision to lift the challenged restrictions for the time being — was, however, enough to decide the case.

The majority opinion was unsigned, but Ross Guberman, an authority on legal writing and the author of “Point Taken: How to Write Like the World’s Best Judges,” said he suspected that its principal author was the newest justice.

“My money is on Justice Barrett,” Mr. Guberman said, pointing to word choices that echoed her opinions on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Among them, he said, was “the concession that justices ‘are not public health experts,’” and “the taste for ‘And,’ ‘But,’ and ‘show.’”

The unsigned opinion was mild and measured, which is also characteristic of Justice Barrett’s judicial work. It took issue with what it said were Mr. Cuomo’s unduly harsh restrictions, which had been challenged by, among others, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and two synagogues, the latter of which had argued that Mr. Cuomo had “singled out a particular religion for blame and retribution for an uptick in a societywide pandemic.”

The majority opinion said less restrictive measures would work.

“Among other things, the maximum attendance at a religious service could be tied to the size of the church or synagogue,” the opinion said. “It is hard to believe that admitting more than 10 people to a 1,000-seat church or 400-seat synagogue would create a more serious health risk than the many other activities that the state allows.”

The opinion said the state had treated secular businesses more favorably than houses of worship.

“The list of ‘essential’ businesses includes things such as acupuncture facilities, camp grounds, garages, as well as many whose services are not limited to those that can be regarded as essential, such as all plants manufacturing chemicals and microelectronics and all transportation facilities,” the opinion said.

The most notable signed opinion came from Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, Mr. Trump’s first appointee. His concurrence was bitter, slashing and triumphant, and it took aim at Chief Justice Roberts, whose concurring opinion in the California case in May had been relied on by courts around the nation to assess the constitutionality of restrictions prompted by the pandemic.

The chief justice’s basic point was that government officials, in consultation with scientific experts, were better positioned than judges to make determinations about public health. But Justice Gorsuch wrote that the opinion, in South Bay Pentecostal Church v. Newsom, was worthless.

“Even if the Constitution has taken a holiday during this pandemic, it cannot become a sabbatical,” he wrote. “Rather than apply a nonbinding and expired concurrence from South Bay, courts must resume applying the Free Exercise Clause. Today, a majority of the court makes this plain.”

“We may not shelter in place when the Constitution is under attack,” Justice Gorsuch wrote. “Things never go well when we do.”

Chief Justice Roberts responded, in a tone suggesting that his patience was being tested, that there was no need to act because Mr. Cuomo had, for the time being, lifted the restrictions.

“Numerical capacity limits of 10 and 25 people, depending on the applicable zone, do seem unduly restrictive,” he wrote. “And it may well be that such restrictions violate the Free Exercise Clause. It is not necessary, however, for us to rule on that serious and difficult question at this time.”

The court’s three liberal members were to varying degrees prepared to support the restrictions. Chief Justice Roberts made a point of defending his colleagues from Justice Gorsuch’s attacks, saying they were operating in good faith.

“To be clear,” the chief justice wrote, quoting from Justice Gorsuch’s concurring opinion, “I do not regard my dissenting colleagues as ‘cutting the Constitution loose during a pandemic,’ yielding to ‘a particular judicial impulse to stay out of the way in times of crisis,’ or ‘sheltering in place when the Constitution is under attack.’ They simply view the matter differently after careful study and analysis reflecting their best efforts to fulfill their responsibility under the Constitution.”

In a separate dissent, Justice Sonia Sotomayor, joined by Justice Elena Kagan, said the majority was being reckless. “Justices of this court play a deadly game,” she wrote, “in second-guessing the expert judgment of health officials about the environments in which a contagious virus, now infecting a million Americans each week, spreads most easily.”





No.4 article:
Cuomo Attacks Supreme Court, but Virus Ruling Is Warning to Governors

The court signaled that if unconstrained religious observance and public safety are sometimes at odds, then religious freedom should win out.

ALBANY, N.Y. — As the coronavirus pandemic has deepened and darkened in recent months, the nation’s governors have taken increasingly aggressive steps to curb the current surge of infections, with renewed and expanded restrictions reaching into people’s homes, businesses, schools and places of worship.

Many of these rules, often enacted by Democratic officials and enforced through curfews, closures and capacity limits, have been resisted by some members of the public, but largely upheld by the courts.

Late Wednesday night, though, the U.S. Supreme Court forcefully entered the arena, signaling that it was willing to impose new constraints on executive and emergency orders during the pandemic, at least where constitutional rights are affected.

In a 5-4 decision, the court struck down an order by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that had restricted the size of religious gatherings in certain areas of New York where infection rates were climbing. The governor had imposed 10- and 25-person capacity limits on churches and other houses of worship in those areas.

The decision seemed to signal that some governmental efforts to stem the pandemic had overreached, impinging on protected freedoms in the name of public health. If unconstrained religious observance and public safety were sometimes at odds, as the governor and other public officials maintained, the court ruled that religious freedom should win out.

Mr. Cuomo accused the court of partisanship, suggesting the ruling reflected the influence of the three conservative justices who have been nominated by President Trump in the past four years.

“You have a different court, and I think that was the statement that the court was making,” Mr. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, said on Thursday. “We know who he appointed to the court. We know their ideology.”

The decision represented something of a Thanksgiving gift for Catholic and Orthodox Jewish leaders, who had blasted Mr. Cuomo’s rules as a profound and unfair restriction on the freedom of religion.

“I have said from the beginning the restrictions imposed by Governor Cuomo were an overreach that did not take into account the size of our churches or the safety protocols that have kept parishioners safe,” Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio of Brooklyn said on Thursday morning, noting that Catholics had adhered to coronavirus safety protocols at Mass since the virus first emerged in New York in March.

Mr. Cuomo insisted that the decision “doesn’t have any practical effect” because the restrictions on religious services in Brooklyn, as well as similar ones in Queens and the city’s northern suburbs, were eased after positive test rates in those areas declined.

The case’s immediate impact was narrow, setting aside two specific restrictions on attendance at houses of worship — regardless of denomination — that Mr. Cuomo enacted in early October. Those rules were put in place after a surge of cases in several Orthodox Jewish communities in Brooklyn, Queens and two suburban counties.

Mr. Cuomo maintains that those outbreaks have since been brought under control, in large part by the measures that the court struck down. Mr. Cuomo has issued dozens of executive orders since the state’s first reported case in March, and those remain untouched, including other restrictions on religious gatherings.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. noted in a dissenting opinion that none of the governor’s most strict restrictions were currently in force.  While the governor’s capacity limits on houses of worship might have violated the First Amendment, Justice Roberts wrote that it was not necessary for the court “to rule on that serious and difficult question at this time.”

“The Governor might reinstate the restrictions. But he also might not,” Justice Roberts wrote, saying it is “a significant matter to override determinations made by public health officials.”

Critics of the court’s decision contended that Mr. Cuomo’s actions had not infringed on religious freedom and that the Supreme Court’s ruling could have dangerous public health consequences.

“The freedom to worship is one of our most cherished fundamental rights, but it does not include a license to harm others or endanger public health,” said Daniel Mach, the director for the American Civil Liberties Union’s freedom of religion and belief program.

Less stringent 25-person capacity restrictions, also rejected by the Supreme Court’s decision, are still in place in six other counties, including Richmond County on Staten Island.

Legal experts say the court’s ruling could be used to challenge those and other rules elsewhere. “The decision is applicable to people in similar situations,” said Norman Siegel, a constitutional lawyer and former leader of the New York Civil Liberties Union. “It’s applicable to any synagogue, any church, to any mosque, to any religious setting.”

Still, Beth Garvey, Mr. Cuomo’s counsel, said that the state believed the court’s opinion affected only the now-lapsed restrictions in Brooklyn, and that the rules in the other six zones would remain intact.

She said that officials would “be looking around the state at the other zones” while also suggesting the state would continue to argue its case in the lower courts.

The Supreme Court’s decision was welcomed by Orthodox Jewish leaders, whose communities had been a focal point of the restrictions last month.

Rabbi Chaim Dovid Zwiebel, executive vice president of Agudath Israel of America, an ultra-Orthodox umbrella group which had also sued to overturn the rules, called the decision historic, saying it “will ensure that religious practices and religious institutions will be protected from government edicts that do not treat religion with the respect demanded by the Constitution.”

The governor’s restrictions had led to angry protests in some Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods and even became an issue in the presidential race, when Mr. Trump suggested on Twitter that the unrest and the police response was emblematic of the “radical left.” On Thursday, the president tweeted a report about the Supreme Court’s decision, with a two-word, all-caps message: “HAPPY THANKSGIVING!”

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn requested an injunction from the Supreme Court on Nov. 9, after losing challenges at lower federal levels, saying that Mr. Cuomo’s order ran “roughshod over” the rights of Catholic parishioners.

In particular, the diocese had asked the courts for relief from so-called “red zones,” where houses of worship were limited to 10 people or 25 percent of the building’s capacity, whichever number was less. They also successfully sought an injunction on “orange zones,” where a 25-person cap — or a 33 percent of capacity limit — was implemented by Mr. Cuomo.

Last week, Bishop DiMarzio said that the rules effectively closed churches in red and orange zones — some of which can accommodate hundreds of parishioners — a concern that was also expressed by Jewish leaders regarding their synagogues. 

Mr. Cuomo, a Catholic, asked for understanding from the church and Jewish organizations, saying that the restrictions were necessary to stem the second wave of the virus.

In recent weeks, the governor has also announced a ban on gatherings of more than 10 people in private residences and has imposed a statewide curfew of 10 p.m. for bars, restaurants and gyms.

Still, the second wave has arrived in New York, where nearly 34,000 people have already died. On Thursday, the state had more than 3,000 people in the hospital with Covid-19 and tallied 67 deaths, the highest daily toll since mid-June.

The legal dispute between the state and religious leaders has been animated by tensions dating to March over what secular officials consider to be an important service at a time of crisis.

“We are essential to the spiritual health of people,” Bishop DiMarzio said last week. “Bodily health is important, but we are essential also, and we’re being considered not essential. And that’s why these restrictions were put on us.”





No.5 article:
Confused by the College Football Playoff Rankings? We Can Help

The first rankings are out, and the debates have begun. Here are some talking points about the country’s best teams.

The first College Football Playoff rankings for this pandemic-disrupted season were revealed Tuesday. Then came all sorts of righteous and ritualistic self-regard and fury. The coming days will bring games that will feed the cycle.

But that cycle — a staple of a sport that has thrilled generations of fans with weekly offerings of the predictable and the downright ridiculous — is more fragile than ever because of the coronavirus pandemic.

“Win out” may not prove a surefire route to a berth in semifinals at the Sugar Bowl or the Rose Bowl. Games could vanish from the schedule with only hours of warning, new matchups might be added, and postponed showdowns might be resurrected. A team might miss a chance to play for a conference title because of a viral outbreak.

If the season lasts, the final rankings are expected on Dec. 20, soon after many top teams play for league championships and just a year after a Playoff slate that drew few complaints.

In the meantime, that sound you hear, besides some cousin’s bumbling over a video chat or the smoke detector announcing that the marshmallow-topped sweet potatoes are burning, may just be the birthright bickering of college football fans. Here are the top teams they’re arguing over because, well, not everything is different in 2020.

Remaining games: No. 22 Auburn, at Arkansas

Nick Saban needs one more national championship at Alabama to equal Bear Bryant’s six titles with the Crimson Tide. Saban, for years one of the country’s finest defensive minds, has a path to it this season with the best scoring offense in the Power 5 leagues and third over all. Quarterback Mac Jones has entered the mix in the race for the Heisman Trophy, and Najee Harris is a human highlight reel of a tailback. But never sleep on the Iron Bowl game against Auburn, planned for Saturday in Tuscaloosa. Saban, however, will not be on the sideline: On Wednesday, Alabama said Saban, 69, had tested positive for the virus.

Remaining games: at No. 19 North Carolina, Syracuse, at Wake Forest

The Fighting Irish, who are playing in the Atlantic Coast Conference this year, cleared their biggest test of the regular season this month when they defeated an undermanned Clemson. Keep an eye on Kyren Williams, the sophomore running back, especially on Friday when Notre Dame’s Brian Kelly and North Carolina’s Mack Brown will face each other for the first time. And remember that Notre Dame’s dealings with Clemson may not be over: The Tigers just might be waiting for the Irish in the A.C.C. championship game.

Remaining games: Pittsburgh, at Virginia Tech

No matter what the Clemson faithful may claim, no serious person ignores or disrespects a program that has reached the national championship game in four of the last five seasons. This year, Travis Etienne became the A.C.C.’s career rushing leader, and Clemson nearly beat Notre Dame, even when Trevor Lawrence, its star quarterback, was sidelined after a brush with the virus. The defense is allowing about 305 yards a game, far better than some top teams, like Alabama and Georgia, with defensive-minded coaches at the top. Coach Dabo Swinney is sometimes the subject of harsh criticism — he drew ire this week for his remarks after Florida State refused to play Clemson because of virus concerns — but he has proved more than able to direct his team on the biggest stages.

Remaining games: at Illinois, at Michigan State, Michigan

Ohio State wanted to play this fall and with good football reason. After narrowly missing out on an appearance in last season’s national championship game, the Buckeyes are positioned to make it through the regular season undefeated: Their remaining opponents have a collective record of 5-9. Indiana tested Ohio State’s passing defense last weekend, but Justin Fields directs the best offense in the Big Ten and has one of the highest quarterback ratings in the country.

Remaining games: Louisiana State, at No. 22 Auburn, at Tennessee

Coach Jimbo Fisher’s team could have been left for dead after Alabama walloped the Aggies, 52-24, in October. Then Texas A&amp;M upset Florida, beat Mississippi State and Arkansas and humiliated South Carolina. The question for Texas A&amp;M is whether two virus-related postponements after that run will upend its momentum when it hosts Louisiana State this weekend. Isaiah Spiller has rushed for 643 yards this season, placing him among the country’s elite, and the Aggies’ defense is surrendering the fewest yards of any team in the Southeastern Conference.

Remaining games: Kentucky, at Tennessee, L.S.U.

A coronavirus outbreak slowed the Gators but did not stop them, mostly because Kyle Trask has continued his blossoming into a star at quarterback. Injuries cost him games early in his career, but he took over the Florida offense last season after Feleipe Franks, now at Arkansas, was hurt and eventually led the team to a victory in the Orange Bowl. So far this season, Trask tops the country with 31 passing touchdowns. Wide receiver Kadarius Toney has more catches than any other Gator, but Kyle Pitts, a tight end, is making the most of his 24 receptions and averaging about 17 yards per catch. And Florida has already crushed Georgia, its nearest rival in the SEC’s East Division.

Remaining game: at No. 25 Tulsa

No team from outside a Power 5 league has ever earned such a high playoff ranking. Now Cincinnati, a member of the American Athletic Conference, has a viable chance of reaching the semifinals, having impressed the committee with its national rankings in scoring offense and scoring defense. Desmond Ridder, the quarterback, has been the conference’s offensive player of the week in four of the last five weeks, helped by an offensive line that has given up only nine sacks. (Alabama, by contrast, has surrendered 11.) But in a reminder of how chaotic this season is, Cincinnati announced Wednesday morning that this weekend’s game at Temple had been canceled because of the pandemic.

Remaining games: at Michigan State, at Minnesota, Illinois

Talk about a team that has come back from last year. The Wildcats, who went 3-9 in 2019, have been perfect but not dominant. Their wins have rarely been blowouts — only one, a 43-3 pummeling of Maryland on Oct. 24, was by more than 10 points — but Northwestern has already beaten Wisconsin, the preseason favorite in the Big Ten’s West Division. The Northwestern defense, which made life miserable for Wisconsin when the Badgers were on third down, has been the difference, allowing fewer than 13 points a game. Brandon Joseph, a defensive back from College Station, Texas, has five interceptions, the most in the Power 5.

Remaining games: at South Carolina, Vanderbilt

Georgia has two losses, but they were to Alabama and Florida. The trouble for the Bulldogs is that Florida has to stumble for them to reach the SEC’s championship game, and the Gators don’t exactly have a frightening schedule. Whether Georgia can get something going partly hinges on JT Daniels, a redshirt sophomore quarterback who only last week made his first start as a Bulldog. It went well — he threw for 401 yards and four touchdowns — but Georgia still beat Mississippi State (2-5) by only a touchdown.

Remaining games: at Wake Forest, No. 19 North Carolina, Georgia Tech

Much like Northwestern, Miami has rebounded after a disappointing 2019 in which the Hurricanes, a great national power of decades past, posted a 6-7 record. D’Eriq King, a redshirt senior playing his first season at Miami, has passed for 2,086 yards and 17 touchdowns. But Miami had toggled between huge wins — think a 52-10 rout of Florida State — and narrower margins, like a 25-24 win over Virginia Tech.





No.6 article:
N.B.A. Free Agency Frenzy: 5 Takeaways

A player was traded three times, and the Lakers and Clippers jockeyed for each other’s stars. But Milwaukee is still waiting for a big decision from its biggest star: Giannis Antetokounmpo.

The veteran forward Trevor Ariza was traded three times last week — from Portland to Houston to Detroit and ultimately to Oklahoma City. It was perhaps the best illustration that an expected transactional frenzy, after nine mostly dormant months for N.B.A. roster moves, had lived up to billing.

One player agent at the heart of the chaos described it to me as three months’ worth of business crammed into 10 days leading into next week’s scheduled start of training camps. From the many trades and free-agent signings that also had the N.B.A. draft wedged in between them, these are the five most important takeaways:

If Rob Pelinka finishes anywhere close to seventh in next season’s executive of the year balloting, as he did in 2019-20, it would represent peak pettiness from the voters (who, remember, are fellow executives rather than members of the media).

Pelinka’s Lakers are the early leaders in the race for best off-season honors. They:

The Lakers also beat out their Staples Center co-tenants in a head-to-head showdown for Markieff Morris, preventing the Clippers from signing both Morris, who spent last season with the Lakers, and his twin brother, Marcus. Throw in a re-signed Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, and it’s a lock that the Lakers, with a more dynamic supporting cast to surround LeBron James and Anthony Davis, will start the new season as clear-cut title favorites for the first time in James’s time in Hollywood.

The Clippers, though, haven’t folded. They went into the off-season determined to make dramatic chemistry changes after a humbling second-round playoff exit to Denver. They upgraded from Harrell — who team officials quietly decided had to go — by luring Serge Ibaka away from Toronto. The additions of Ibaka and Luke Kennard (via trade with Detroit) are just the beginning; many rival teams also expect the Clippers to trade Lou Williams in their quest to create a fresh-start environment after they blew a 3-1 series lead to the Nuggets.

How Paul George rebounds from a poor postseason and how much influence an all-new coaching staff led by Tyronn Lue wields are key factors in the Clippers’ ability to stay in the same orbit as a Lakers roster widely deemed stronger than the championship group of 2019-20. Yet just knowing that the Clippers will keep trying ensures that Los Angeles, as it was in the first 72 hours of free agency, will remain one of the league capitals of intrigue.

The ceiling on a four-year deal for Hayward was widely projected in the $100 million range after his myriad injury woes in Boston, where he had a player option for the coming season. Mark Bartelstein, his agent, extracted $120 million over four years from the Charlotte Hornets, whose $63 million offer sheet to Hayward in 2014 when he was a restricted free agent was matched by the Utah Jazz.

Spending nearly twice as much to land Hayward six years later is earning Michael Jordan, Charlotte’s owner, no shortage of consternation, but that’s not Hayward’s concern (or Bartelstein’s). We detailed in last week’s newsletter that the Hornets would probably be interested in trading for Houston’s Russell Westbrook if they missed out on LaMelo Ball in the draft. After the Hornets were able to select Ball at No. 3, they pivoted to overpaying Hayward rather than absorbing the remaining three seasons and nearly $133 million left on Westbrook’s contract.

So we’re about to find out if Jordan comes off worse for spending big compared with last summer, when he decided not to pay to retain the All-Star Kemba Walker. Adding to the disconcerting math for Jordan: Hayward will essentially cost $39 million for the first three seasons of his contract, if Charlotte’s only way to create sufficient cap room is to eat and pay out the remaining $27 million on Nicolas Batum’s contract over the next three seasons. Although it’s true that the small-market Hornets have never been a free-agent destination, they could have used their cap space in trades to try to bring in a marquee name on a shorter deal (like, say, Detroit’s Blake Griffin) rather than make such a long commitment to Hayward.

The Knicks, for the record, were in the Hayward chase throughout. After the Knicks weighed their own trade for Westbrook, they pursued Hayward much harder, with Coach Tom Thibodeau serving as lead admirer. The Knicks eventually decided to increase their offer to four years from two to compete with sign-and-trade interest from Indiana and Charlotte, but the Hornets went to a financial level for Hayward that no rival was willing to match.

Silly as it sounds to say out loud, teams are looking for shooters (and keen to reward the best).

Illustration No. 1: Joe Harris, who was struggling to stay in the league through his first two seasons in Cleveland, has blossomed in Brooklyn beyond all reasonable projections and just landed a four-year, $72 million contract (with an additional $3 million in unlikely bonuses) from the Nets.

Illustration No. 2: Washington’s Davis Bertans elected not to play in the N.B.A. bubble to guard against injury after an offensive breakout in his fourth N.B.A. season, then duly agreed to a five-year deal with the Wizards worth up to $80 million on the first day of free agency.

Practice your shooting, kids. Obvious as it sounds.

Miami made a wholly unexpected trip to the N.B.A. finals and improved its roster through the acquisitions of Avery Bradley and Moe Harkless. Milwaukee will remain a contender for the league’s best regular-season record, and presumably be a better playoff team after acquiring Jrue Holiday, even after the Bogdan Bogdanovic fiasco.

Boston lost Hayward but agreed to add the bruising Tristan Thompson to fill a clear need in the frontcourt on a team-friendly contract. Toronto will certainly miss Ibaka and Gasol but has re-signed Fred VanVleet and hopes Aron Baynes can step into the center void.

Daryl Morey has been decisive upon arrival in Philadelphia by shipping out the ill-fitting Al Horford and bringing in two needed shooters: Danny Green and Seth Curry. The Nets are poised to acquire the sharpshooting Landry Shamet from a draft-night trade and, beyond re-signing Harris, should finally have both Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in uniform.

The jockeying among those six teams is going to be heated and unpredictable. The rest of the West’s ability to prevent the Lakers and the Clippers from delivering the conference finals showdown they still owe us, by contrast, is questionable given that Denver, Houston and Utah have nudged their rosters forward only marginally — if at all. Golden State’s loss of Klay Thompson to a season-ending Achilles’ tendon tear likewise scuttles the Warriors’ expected surge back into contention. Portland and especially Phoenix, through Chris Paul’s arrival, have strengthened, but Dallas will have to overcome a late start to the season for Kristaps Porzingis as he recovers from knee surgery.

The Milwaukee Bucks have until Dec. 21 to persuade Antetokounmpo to sign a five-year, $230 million so-called supermax contract extension. If he signs it, Milwaukee’s failure to acquire Bogdanovic after it was portrayed as a done deal will become a footnote.

If Antetokounmpo elects not to sign it by then, his contract situation will hang over the franchise like an ominous cloud all season, especially if the Bucks incur damaging penalties from the N.B.A.’s investigation into whether the team violated anti-tampering rules by engaging with Bogdanovic days before the start of free agency.

Milwaukee responded to the Bogdanovic deal collapse by striking deals to bring in a clutch of useful role players — the guards D.J. Augustin and Bryn Forbes and the forwards Bobby Portis and Torrey Craig — but this triage work can only be assessed with the context of the only reaction that matters: Antetokounmpo’s.

For two weeks before it appeared that the Bucks had a deal to bring in Bogdanovic alongside Holiday, there had been promising rumblings in league circles that Antetokounmpo was prepared to sign the extension. A belief was building that Antetokounmpo was likely to opt for immediate financial security by signing before the season and quietly reserving the right to try to force a trade later if he was unhappy, as George did one season after re-signing in Oklahoma City.

Now? Bogdanovic — someone Antetokounmpo, by all accounts, was eager to play with — has joined the Atlanta Hawks, while Milwaukee is enveloped by eerie silence. The Bucks can only wait for Antetokounmpo’s return from an off-season trip to Greece and then, they hope, his signature.

If Antetokounmpo withholds that signature, Milwaukee is in for the longest and most uncomfortable season with a pending free agent since Durant’s final season in Oklahoma City in 2015-16.

You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure “Corner Three” is in the subject line.)

Q: The media narrative of “giving up too much” in a trade is so much different when it’s not the Lakers. — @ikeonic_ from Twitter

Stein: The inference here is that the Bucks have been celebrated for swinging a trade for Jrue Holiday whereas the Lakers were roundly criticized for surrendering too much by sending an array of draft picks and young talent to New Orleans for Anthony Davis. I would submit that the truth is firmly in the proverbial middle.

The Lakers had to hear it constantly from naysayers — until they won the championship. The Bucks are probably in for the same sort of second-guessing until Giannis Antetokounmpo signs a contract extension. Milwaukee’s package for Holiday: Eric Bledsoe and George Hill combined with three future first-round picks and two pick swaps.

Maybe the Lakers were subjected to louder negativity, but that’s largely because A) they’re the Lakers and have the league’s highest profile, and B) Davis’s very public trade demand had essentially left the Lakers as the only team New Orleans could trade Davis to in July 2019. Davis’s narrow trade market, more than anything, is what made people question why the Pelicans’ haul was so big.

Now people around the league are wondering if the Bucks have gone too far, especially after a proposed sign-and-trade for Sacramento’s Bogdan Bogdanovic collapsed. That deal, before it fell apart, helped fuel a wave of Bucks optimism since it so closely followed the revelation of an agreement for the Holiday trade.

The truth is that the Bucks did give up too much for Holiday — unless it works. If that was the deal that persuades Antetokounmpo to commit his long-term future to Milwaukee, and so long as Holiday doesn’t bolt when he enters 2021 free agency, this all-in approach will be redeemed no matter how lopsided it may look today.

Q: We know Tim Duncan made his living on bank shots (and all-time great defense), but do we know how many points he actually scored with bank shots? Also: Is he the bank-shot leader or is there someone else more prolific in scoring off the glass? — PK (Gdansk, Poland)

Stein: As noted in this April piece on Duncan after his selection to the Basketball Hall of Fame’s class of 2020, bank-shot data has only been tracked in the N.B.A. since the 2003-4 season. So a comprehensive answer to your question, sadly, is practically impossible.

What I can tell you, thanks to some typically priceless research from my former ESPN teammate @MicahAdams13 is that Duncan converted 945 bank shots (good for 1,890 points) over the final 13 seasons of his career, shooting 59.1 percent on bankers over that span.

Q: You forgot Lawrence Frank! — Michael Oruch

Stein: Michael’s email arrived in response to the item in last week’s newsletter about the three former Nets head coaches who now hold jobs as assistant coaches in Los Angeles: Kenny Atkinson with the Clippers and Jason Kidd and Lionel Hollins with the Lakers.

We didn’t “forget” Lawrence Frank because Frank is not an assistant coach. Perhaps he should have been mentioned because of his Nets ties, too, but Frank is the Clippers’ president of basketball operations after moving out of the coaching ranks.

Golden State’s Klay Thompson last week became the fourth player who was selected to the 2018 All-Star Game to tear his Achilles’ tendon. The others in an unfortunate run of star players succumbing to the league’s most dreaded injury: DeMarcus Cousins, John Wall and Kevin Durant.

Marcus Morris of the Los Angeles Clippers landed a four-year contract worth $64 million in free agency — more than $60 million higher than his twin brother, Markieff, came away with by settling for a one-year veteran minimum deal to stay with the Lakers. Early in their careers, in 2014, when Markieff Morris was the more established N.B.A. player, they signed deals with the Phoenix Suns worth a combined $52 million that the brothers were told they could split however they wanted. Markieff Morris took $32 million over four years, with Marcus receiving $20 million over the same span.

Last week’s draft was the 11th in a row in which a college freshman was selected No. 1 over all: Georgia’s Anthony Edwards by the Minnesota Timberwolves. The last non-freshman to be drafted with the No. 1 pick was the Oklahoma sophomore Blake Griffin in 2009.

Obi Toppin, the Knicks’ draft selection at No. 8, led the nation with 107 dunks last season at Dayton.

Last week’s draft was also the N.B.A.’s first in 45 years, dating to the 1975 draft, that was not held in June.

Hit me up anytime on Twitter (@TheSteinLine) or Facebook (@MarcSteinNBA) or Instagram (@thesteinline). Send any other feedback to marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com.





No.7 article:
Brexit Is Nipping at London’s Role as a Financial Powerhouse

Britain and the European Union don’t trust each other much, and global banks are caught in the middle.

LONDON — For Britain, its exit from the European Union is supposed to be the start of a new era as a “Global Britain,” an open, inviting and far-reaching country. For the European Union, Brexit is an opportunity to repatriate some business from across the English Channel and further bolster the continent’s economic standing in the world.

And for the City of London, a large hub for international banks, asset managers, insurance firms and hedge funds, Brexit is a political headache. Britain’s financial center has been caught in the middle of these two agendas, leaving the future of the City’s relationship with the rest of Europe fractured and uncertain.

Britain left the free trade bloc at the end of January but immediately entered into an 11-month transition period that has kept everything unchanged. What comes after Dec. 31, when this transition period expires, is being negotiated down to the wire. Hanging in the balance are things like fishing quotas, long lines for customs checks at ports and disruption to automakers and other manufacturers that have fine-tuned a “just in time” supply chain.

But the global financial firms with big operations in London already know they will lose the biggest benefit of Britain’s E.U. membership: the ability to easily offer services to clients across the region from a single base, known as passporting. This has allowed a bank in London to provide loans to a business in Venice or trade bonds for a company in Madrid.

After Jan. 1, that won’t be so simple. The ability of firms in Britain to offer financial services in the European Union will depend on whether E.U. policymakers determine that Britain’s new regulations are close enough to their own to be trusted — a critical concept known as equivalence.

The problem is that some very common banking activities — taking deposits and making loans to companies and individuals, for example — don’t qualify for equivalence. The result will be a patchwork arrangement with large holes. That’s why thousands of people, primarily Brits, living in Europe who have British bank accounts have recently been told their accounts will be closed.

To ease the transition Britain decided to copy some of the European Union’s regulations. In turn, it hoped that the European Union would allow firms in Britain to keep doing business in the bloc. In early November, Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer said his government would accept the E.U. rules in a number of areas, including capital requirements and credit ratings agencies.

But the European Union hasn’t reciprocated. The bruised feelings raised by Britain’s divorce from the bloc continue to influence relations between the two. Officials in Brussels say they are wary that, over time, Britain will exploit its independence and weaken the restrictions on risk and other rules that banks don’t like.

That lack of a deal “should not be the starting gun for a race to deregulate,” Joachim Wuermeling, who is in charge of bank supervision at the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, said last month.

This has led to a political stalemate, in which London and Brussels remain at odds on several key pieces of financial regulation and unwilling to give market access to each other.

One such rule allows investment firms to offer their services and trade financial securities across borders to clients in the European Union, under a piece of regulation called Mifid II. The bloc is updating its rules for cross-border securities trading and won’t grant Britain a stamp of approval until the revision is completed in the middle of next year.

That stance spurred an outraged response from none other than the governor of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey, who in September complained to members of Parliament about Brussels’s behavior.

“I just do not see how we can have an equivalence process where the E.U. essentially says, ‘We’re not even going to judge equivalence at the moment, because our rules are going to change,’” Mr. Bailey said. “What does that mean, really? It means that they think this is a rule‑taking process.” (The accusation of “rule-taking” is often the ultimate put-down in these talks, meaning that one side is dictating rules to the other.)

The disharmony is underscored by the fact that, unlike the rules that governed pre-Brexit, these regulatory decisions are made unilaterally and can be revoked with short notice.

The lack of agreements mean London will lose financial jobs as a result of Brexit. Even before the year-end deadline, E.U. regulations are compelling banks to shift workers, and capital, to the continent. The movement of decision makers is important: In the event of a crisis, Europe’s bank overseers don’t want critical people to be somewhere offshore, even if it’s London.

Overall, since mid-2016, financial firms have shifted $1.6 trillion in assets out of Britain, according to EY.

But the process hasn’t been completed. It has been delayed by the pandemic, which has made it difficult for people to move and some corporate clients have been more concerned with keeping their business afloat than signing new contracts.

“Some banks and their customers apparently want to wait until the last minute to make the actual transfers,” Mr. Wuermeling of the Bundesbank said. “They would be well advised to act now.”

JPMorgan has asked about 200 employees to move from London to other European cities, mainly Paris and Frankfurt, before the end of the year. Another 100 workers are expected to move next year. JPMorgan also plans to move about 200 billion euros in assets to Frankfurt. Goldman Sachs plans to transfer between $40 billion and $60 billion from its British operations to its German subsidiary by the end of the year. That unit held just $3.6 billion at the end of 2019, according to company filings.

All told, lenders with German licenses will move assets worth about 400 billion euros, or $475 billion, to the Continent because of Brexit, according to the Bundesbank. That will more than double the banks’ assets in the European Union.

The Bundesbank expects banks that have sought German licenses because of Brexit to bring in 2,500 employees, some of whom may be located in other cities like Milan or Amsterdam. That’s hardly the mass migration to the continent predicted a few years ago. (Estimates reached as high as 75,000 jobs relocating out of London to the rest of Europe.)

Still, the moves keep alive a question that has been posed since the Brexit vote in 2016: Could another European capital unseat London as the region’s dominant financial center?

So far there has been no single big winner. Money has scattered to Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Dublin and Paris.

“London will remain by far the most dominant player,” said Michael Grote, a professor at the Frankfurt School of Finance &amp; Management who has studied the effect of Brexit on financial services.

Regulators are confident that financial stability won’t be put at risk come January, because firms have taken the prudent approach of preparing for the worst. But, they say, there could still be some market volatility as the transition period ends.

Next year, Britain’s financial sector is still expected to be one of the largest in the world: The amount of money it manages is about 10 times the size of the British economy. The business that actually relates to clients in the European Union, and would be threatened by regulatory discord, is relatively small.

“Not that much business in London and the United Kingdom’s financial center actually depends on equivalence,” Alex Brazier, the Bank of England’s head of financial stability strategy and risk, told members of Parliament in September. About 10 percent of the City’s £300 billion in annual revenue from finance and insurance comes from clients in the European Union, he said. Of that about a third, or £10 billion, is from activities that could continue under equivalence rules, he added. 

While London won’t lose its status as the financial capital of Europe, its primacy will be eroded. The market for financial services will become more fragmented.

Andrew Gray, the head of Brexit at PwC, said that dispersal of financial services around the Continent would create more friction in the system, adding to costs. “There is economy of scale of having it in London,” he said. “You lose that economy of scale.”





No.8 article:
E.U. Border Agency Accused of Covering Up Migrant Pushback in Greece

Frontex is under fire for letting Greece illegally repel migrants as the agency expands to play a more central role at the bloc’s external borders.

BRUSSELS — Mounting evidence indicates that the European Union’s border agency has been complicit in Greece’s illegal practice of pushing back migrants to Turkey, according to documents obtained by The New York Times and interviews with officials.

In at least one case, Frontex, as the E.U. border agency is known, is accused of having helped cover up the violations, when a crew said it was discouraged by agency officials from reporting that they had seen the Greek authorities setting a boatload of migrants adrift in Turkish waters.

The case is currently being investigated by Frontex. But it has fueled suspicions that the agency, newly boosted in its role as upholder of the rule of law at E.U. borders, is not just sporadically aware of such abuses, but that it plays a role in concealing them.

“We are seeing an erosion of the rule of law at the E.U. borders which is willful,” said Gerald Knaus, a migration expert. “This is deeply worrying because it is eroding the refugee convention on the continent on which it was created.”

Throughout this year, The New York Times and others have reported on growing operations by the Greek Coast Guard to repel migrants from Greek waters back to Turkey, reports the Greek authorities deny amount to breaches of international laws.

But revelations that Frontex has witnessed pushbacks have thrown the agency into a governance crisis that threatens to further blight the European Union’s liberal values, once again calling into question the bloc’s commitment to upholding its own laws on refugees.

The cases have also highlighted a conundrum at the core of E.U. ambitions to tighten external borders by pooling resources and involving the bloc in the sensitive, zealously shielded work of sovereign border guards.

Frontex is the European Union’s best-funded agency, with a budget of over $500 million, and will soon deploy the first uniformed officers in the bloc’s history. It has been built up specifically to help in migrant-rescue operations as the burden of policing Europe’s borders has fallen most heavily on its peripheral states, like Greece.

It was also intended as a deterrent to the kind of mass arrival of refugees that sowed political crises across Europe after 2015, and fanned nationalist and populist movements.

Yet Frontex is not empowered to stop national border guards from committing violations, and it is not clear how it can play a role as standard-bearer of E.U. laws when informing on national forces risks the working relationships on which its operations depend.

Refugee arrivals to the European Union peaked five years ago and have dropped drastically since, but thousands of asylum seekers, many fleeing the wars in Afghanistan and Syria, still attempt the crossing. Unlike in the past, Greeks and their government have turned hostile to the new arrivals, exhausted by years in which asylum seekers have been bottled up in overrun camps on Greek islands.

There is also a growing belief in the Greek and several other European governments that aggression at the borders and poor conditions at migrant camps will make the attempt to reach Europe less attractive for asylum seekers.

Earlier this year, an analysis by The Times showed that the Greek government had secretly expelled more than 1,000 asylum seekers, often by sailing them to the edge of Greek territorial waters and abandoning them in flimsy inflatable life rafts in violation of international laws.

The Greek Coast Guard has rescued thousands of asylum seekers over the years but has become much more aggressive this year, especially as Turkey used migrants to provoke Greece by encouraging them to cross the border.

The Greek government has denied it is doing anything illegal in repelling migrant boats from its national waters, characterizing the operations as robust border guarding. But Mr. Knaus said “the denials are not serious,” and the practices are effectively happening in the open — under the eyes of E.U. border patrols.

The documents obtained by The Times describe, in Coast Guard vernacular littered with acronyms, codes, time-stamps and coordinates, a seemingly incessant Ping-Pong of migrant dinghies between Greek and Turkish waters, with Frontex crews on vessels or aircraft in observer status.

Four officials with direct knowledge of Frontex operations said that agency officials have been discouraging crews from filing reports on pushback incidents, and, in some cases, have stopped initial alerts of violations from being filed as “serious incident reports,” at times after consulting with the Greek authorities.

They all spoke on condition of anonymity because they were concerned about losing their jobs, or were not authorized to brief the press.

The Frontex spokesman, Chris Borowski, said the agency took the reporting of violations very seriously. “Pushbacks are illegal under international law,” Mr. Borowski said.

In the latest case to come to light, a Swedish Coast Guard crew on deployment under Frontex witnessed a pushback to Turkish waters of a boat full of migrants by the Greek authorities on Oct. 30 off the Greek island of Chios.

The Swedish crew was later advised by a Frontex officer to not report it, documents reviewed by The Times show. The Swedish representative to the management board of Frontex described the incident, and the suppression of the attempt to report it, at a meeting on Nov. 10 — the first known case of an E.U. member state reporting active interference by Frontex officials.

The Swedish government did not comment. A spokesman for Frontex said the agency wouldn’t comment because of an “ongoing procedure.”

Frontex has been working in Greece for more than a decade, providing sea, land and aerial surveillance and rescue capabilities and deploying crews from other member states under its command.

The details now emerging push the agency deeper into a governance crisis which began in October when a consortium of news organizations, including the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel, reported a number of occasions when Frontex crews witnessed pushbacks in Greece.

The European Commission, which is part of the Frontex oversight system but does not control the agency, pushed for a special inquiry into these allegations and, at an emergency agency board meeting on Nov. 10, asked its leadership to answer detailed questions in writing.

The answers arrived with a four-day delay, just 15 hours before the start of another meeting to discuss the problems on Wednesday. Yet another emergency meeting has been called in December, mounting pressure on the agency.

Frontex has promised internal investigations but also quickly dismissed allegations, saying for example, in a letter seen by The Times, that it would look into the Swedish case, but that it had so far found no evidence that it happened.

How these investigations shake out will matter a great deal for the future of Frontex, which was once little more than a back-office operation in Warsaw but now finds itself on the front lines of the nettlesome issue of migration that has the potency to make or break governments.

Apart from helping member states with asylum-seeker arrivals, Frontex’s role as an E.U. agency by law is to respect fundamental rights, and bring up human-rights standards across national E.U. border agencies, which often don’t have a strong culture of upholding them.

But claims that Frontex does not take fundamental rights seriously enough are growing. This year, only one million euros in its budget of 460 million euros — about $548 million — was allocated to rights monitoring.

The agency was supposed to hire 40 fundamental-rights officers by Dec. 5 but the jobs have not yet been advertised. The agency is currently hiring for their boss, after years of staffing issues around that position. A Frontex spokesman said the delays stemmed from the coronavirus pandemic.

Documents seen by The Times laid out how in one episode the Greek authorities were consulted before a report was made, and were able to suppress it. On Aug. 10, a German crew deployed by Frontex reported that a Greek Coast Guard vessel “took up border control measures prohibiting the landing to Samos.”

The expression refers to maneuvering and making waves around a dinghy to repel it. The event was not recorded as a “serious incident,” because, the document said, the Greek Coast Guard argued the activities “do not provide any ground” to initiate such a report.

Another incident, which a Frontex aerial crew observed and reported in detail to its headquarters, took place on the evening of April 18 to 19 off the coast of Lesbos, and lasted more than five hours.

A dinghy was detected by the Greek authorities and approximately 20 migrants were rescued and put on board a Greek Coast Guard vessel shortly after midnight, their empty dinghy towed by the Coast Guard toward the island.

But instead of being taken to shore, at 2:45 a.m., the migrants were put back on their dinghy and tugged to Turkish waters by the Greek Coast Guard, the Frontex aerial crew reported.

As events unfolded, the Greek command center twice asked the Frontex aircraft to change its flight path, directing it away from the incident.

“At 03:21 Frontex Surveillance Aircraft communicates that the rubber boat has no engine and it is adrift. Greek assets are departing the area leaving the rubber boat adrift,” the document said.

The internal Frontex report detailing this incident and categorizing it as a fundamental-rights violation was “dismissed,” the document shows.





No.9 article:
Ravens Game Against Steelers Is Moved Again, to Tuesday Night

Lamar Jackson, the N.F.L.’s 2019 M.V.P., was among more than a dozen Baltimore players to have reportedly tested positive for the virus.

For the second time this week, the N.F.L. has rescheduled the matchup between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Baltimore Ravens, moving it to Tuesday night from Sunday, after the coronavirus outbreak in the Ravens’ clubhouse spread further on Thursday, the original day of the game.

It will be the second N.F.L. game of this season to be held on a Tuesday night; the Titans beat the Bills on Oct. 13. Because the Ravens are now playing on Tuesday, their following game, scheduled for just two days later against the Dallas Cowboys, will now be played on Monday, Dec. 7, assuming the outbreak in Baltimore does not spread further.

The league shifted more than a dozen games in September and October, when many teams still had bye weeks remaining, which gave the schedule makers wiggle room in the 16-game season to accommodate postponements. If more games have to be postponed, the league may add an extra week to the 17-week regular season to allow for makeup games. The start of the playoffs would then be pushed back a week.

The Steelers and the Ravens were supposed to play on Thanksgiving night, but a rash of positive tests forced Baltimore to shut its practice facility on Monday and Tuesday, and the game was moved to Sunday afternoon. On Thanksgiving, though, Lamar Jackson, 23, the Ravens quarterback and the league’s reigning most valuable player, was among those who tested positive for the coronavirus  as cases spread to more than a dozen players on the team, according to several media outlets.

Like other players and staff members who test positive, Jackson must isolate for 10 days, which means he will be unable to play on Tuesday.

 On Wednesday, the team announced that it had disciplined a staff member for “conduct surrounding” the cases that had affected the players and other team employees. The Ravens did not identify the staff member or elaborate on the nature of the misconduct.

It was not clear whether Jackson had shown any symptoms of the virus, which sidelined New England Patriots quarterback Cam Newton earlier in the season.

Jackson played last Sunday against the Tennessee Titans in a home loss for the Ravens.

In contrast to some of the other major North American professional sports leagues, the N.F.L. opted not to use a so-called bubble model during the pandemic, with teams playing games in isolation at one or two locations. So far, more than 200 players and other team employees across the league have tested positive for the virus.

Earlier this month, the N.F.L. fined the Las Vegas Raiders $500,000 and their head coach, Jon Gruden, an additional $150,000 for repeated violations of the league’s coronavirus protocols. The league also docked the team a late-round draft pick. And earlier this season, the league fined several coaches for not wearing masks on the sidelines.

Now, the league is grappling with a worsening outbreak that could reverberate well beyond the Ravens.

On Monday, Baltimore’s starting running back, Mark Ingram II, was one of three players added to the Ravens’ Covid-19 reserve list. On Wednesday, the team’s starting defensive tackle, Calais Campbell, was one of three more players added to the list.

JuJu Smith-Schuster, the Steelers wide receiver, complained on Twitter about the rescheduling of the Thanksgiving night game against the Ravens and noted that it was the second time that Pittsburgh’s schedule had been changed this season. The Steelers are undefeated.

“First the NFL takes away our bye week because another team can’t get their Covid situation together, now they take away our Thanksgiving prime time game for the same reason,” Smith-Schuster wrote on Twitter.

Now the Steelers will still play in prime time, only on a Tuesday night.





No.10 article:
In Argentina, Maradona’s Death Sets Off a Vivid Display of Public Grief

For many Argentines, Diego Maradona, who died on Wednesday, was no mere soccer superstar. “I feel like a member of my family just died,” said one.

BUENOS AIRES — People laid flowers and lit candles below the mural of Diego Maradona outside the stadium here that bears his name. A man cried inconsolably. 

At the Obelisk in central Buenos Aires, another man waved a banner depicting Mr. Maradona that read, “God Is Argentine.”

There was a sense of incredulity in Argentina on Wednesday as word spread that the soccer star had died that morning at his home in Tigre, north of Buenos Aires. The government decreed three days of mourning.

Often called one of the game’s best players, Mr. Maradona was revered by his fellow Argentines — not just for his prowess on the field, but for his rise from poverty to global stardom. He stayed a national hero even as his personal life, which included long spates of drug and alcohol abuse, made him tabloid fodder around the world.

As people gathered across the country to honor the man often simply referred to “El Diego,” some chose the Buenos Aires stadium where he got his start in 1976, as a young player in the Argentinos Juniors club, and which was later renamed for him.

“The first time I saw him I couldn’t believe it,” said Hugo Daniel Santiuste, 66, who said he saw Mr. Maradona’s second-ever match at the stadium. “I had never seen anything like it.”

But even Argentines born too late to see him play in person were mourning.

“I feel like a member of my family just died,” said Joaquín López Castan, 19. “My entire life I wanted to play soccer like Maradona.”

Mr. Maradona underwent brain surgery earlier this month, and he had had numerous medical problems in the past. But his death, which a spokesman said was from a heart attack, still came as a shock to many.

“He was Maradona, he always managed to pull through,” said João Dejtiar, 19.

Several places around Buenos Aires became outdoor mourning spaces for fans, including the morgue where officials brought his body; his humble onetime home in Villa Fiorito, the impoverished area where he grew up; and La Bombonera stadium, where he once played as a member of the Boca Juniors club.

Hundreds also gathered in downtown Buenos Aires as the government planned what was expected to be a massive wake at the presidential palace on Thursday.

At 10 p.m., people applauded from their balconies in honor of Mr. Maradona, who wore the traditional No. 10 jersey of a playmaker.

As Wednesday turned into Thursday, people seemed in no hurry to get home. Hundreds chanted and sang songs for Mr. Maradona outside the presidential palace as some started to line up for the wake.

“Of course, Maradona was the greatest soccer player this country has ever seen, but that doesn’t tell the full story. There is something that makes him much more than that,” said Alejandro Wall, a sports journalist. 

“Diego is the great narrator of Argentina,” he said.

Mr. Maradona is invariably remembered for leading Argentina to victory in the 1986 World Cup. In the infamous quarterfinal against England, he scored one of the most beautiful goals in the game’s history, as well as an illegal hand goal. (“It was scored a little bit with the head of Diego and a little with the hand of God,” he later said of that goal.)

The English were furious, but in Argentina — still suffering the humiliation of its 1982 defeat by Britain in the short war over the Falkland Islands, which Argentina calls Malvinas and claims as its own — Mr. Maradona was lauded.

“A narrative is created that the goal wasn’t illegal because in reality it was God doing justice after the defeat in the 1982 war,” said Lívia Gonçalves Magalhães, a historian at Federal Fluminense University in Brazil who studies the intersection of soccer and politics in South America.

“It was the happiest moment of my life,” said Juan José Azcurra, 67, his tears giving way to a smile as he recalled the goal. “I will never forget it.”

That World Cup was doubly sweet because “no one had faith in the team and in the end everything they did was marvelous,” said Veronica Moreira, an anthropologist who studies sport at the National Scientific and Technical Research Council, an Argentine government agency. Argentina’s victory in the final against West Germany cemented Mr. Maradona’s position as the leader who took the underdog team to victory.

Beating the odds was a constant theme in Mr. Maradona’s life story. His rise from poverty was one reason that many Argentines continued to identify with him even as he became a world celebrity.

“He never stopped being part of the people,” said Gastón Tescusinsky, 44, who has a tattoo of Mr. Maradona on his arm. “He was always the kid from Fiorito.”

Mr. Maradona wore his leftist politics on his sleeve, and Ms. Magalhães noted that he would publicly criticize the leaders of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, “without worrying about repercussions.” 

“Maradona was a contradictory character who garnered a lot of empathy,” said Rodrigo Daskal, a professor who is a researcher at the Sports Study Center at the San Martín National University. “Maradona was always authentic and never tried to dress up any part of his life.”

Mr. Maradona’s candor about his struggles with alcohol and drugs was appreciated by many of his fans, especially those who had experience with addiction. “My old man had problems with drugs, who am I to judge Maradona?” said Pablo Neyret, 42, whose eyes welled up with tears.

Songs were written in Mr. Maradona’s honor, and some of his phrases entered Argentines’ everyday lexicon. One was “they cut off my legs,” which he said after being kicked out the 1994 World Cup for doping.

Victoria Fassa, 43, called Mr. Maradona “a rebel who was passionate above all else and said what he thought without caring about the consequences.” 

She added, “He was 100 percent Argentine.”





No.11 article:
Argentina, and Latin America, Mourn Maradona as a Man of the People

Known for siding with leftist leaders and causes, the soccer legend’s life, and his politics, never strayed far from his impoverished roots, and his fans loved him for it.

BUENOS AIRES — The tens of thousands of fans who gathered on Thursday to pay their last respects to Diego Armando Maradona, Argentina’s soccer legend, as he lay in state in the presidential palace were often the first to say their idol was a genius with the ball, but he wasn’t perfect. He never pretended to be.

He was a boy from the poor outskirts of Buenos Aires who led his country to glory in the soccer field, but he also had a chaotic existence, known for his public battles with drug addiction, his defiance of authority, the children he fathered whom he only recognized later in life.

Despite his fame, he remained, always, the “pibe,” the kid from Argentina’s rough streets. His life and his politics never strayed from his roots, and his fans loved him for it, in Argentina and around Latin America, where he was known for siding with leftist leaders and causes.

Hebe Nelli, 35, who took her 9-year-old son, Caetano, to downtown Buenos Aires on Thursday, said Mr. Maradona was particularly loved “in countries that suffered colonialism” because “he stood up to the powerful and chose to stand on the uncomfortable side of life.” 

So perhaps the defiance and confusion that erupted at his funeral when his fans were told that Maradona’s family had decided to conclude the ceremony, and that they wouldn’t all have a chance to say goodbye, was in keeping with the rebellious way Mr. Maradona had lived, and with his drive to bend the world to his will rather than accept a fate predetermined by his humble origins.

As officials prepared to take the coffin to the cemetery, people climbed onto the gates of the presidential palace, many of them chanting the five words that have become a mantra since Mr. Maradona died Wednesday morning: “Diego belongs to the people.”

This time they added three more: “Let us in!”

But suddenly, the hearse carrying Mr. Maradona’s coffin left from a back door of the presidential palace accompanied by a caravan of police motorcycles.

Thousands of Argentines crowded highways and bridges to wave their last goodbye as the hearse sped off to a cemetery 25 miles away, where Mr. Maradona would be buried next to his parents. Outside the cemetery there were renewed clashes between police and rowdy fans eager to get as close as possible to their idol.

Mr. Maradona’s tendency to confront the powerful, including targeting soccer executives early in his career, turned more political after his retirement, when he moved to Cuba to treat his drug addiction in the early 2000s.

There, he befriended Cuban dictator Fidel Castro, and through the following years, went on to become a visible ally of a generation of leftist leaders who were then just beginning to transform Latin America, like Hugo Chávez in Venezuela and Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva in Brazil.

Even as the power of this generation of presidents, known as the pink tide, faded in recent years, Mr. Maradona remained loyal to them.

On Wednesday, Brazil’s leftist former president Dilma Rousseff thanked him for supporting her in 2015, when her impeachment proceedings began.

Celso Amorim, who had been Mr. da Silva’s foreign minister, remembered Mr. Maradona’s support when the former president, Mr. da Silva, was arrested on corruption charges.

“He was an important figure not only for what he did in soccer, but for the positions he took,” he said. “He was a symbol to all of us.”

Norberto Ferrera, an Argentine historian at the Fluminense Federal University in Brazil, said Mr. Maradona’s connections to Latin American leaders were more affectionate than strategic.

“His death also closes the cycle of a certain kind of Latin American left,” he said. “And it coincides with the emergence of a new left that is less utopian, and more realist.”

Mr. Maradona’s support for the left meant befriending some of the region’s most controversial leaders. He treated Castro as a father figure, and never stopped visiting Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuelan leader, even as he drove his country deeper into a humanitarian crisis.

On Wednesday, Mr. Maduro made a national televised address to mourn Mr. Maradona’s death: “Diego Armando Maradona was loyal to our friendship, to our cause, to the people of Venezuela. ”

That same day, the governor of Carabobo state in Venezuela, Rafael Lacava, one of Mr. Maduro’s top allies, organized a rally to pay tribute to Mr. Maradona. Hundreds of people showed up to pay their respects — and to collect food donations for distribution.

“The best soccer player in history and a great revolutionary has died,” he told the crowd from a stage, receiving halfhearted claps in return.

But to Mr. Ferrera, the historian, Mr. Maradona’s political activism was more closely related to the iconoclast image he had built for himself, trying to stay true to his origins, than any attempt to advance a political agenda.

“He had strong political opinions,” he said. “But he was also always putting himself in the shoes of the little guy.”

And it was that sentiment, as well as reverence for his talent with the ball, that drew the fans who gathered in lines 20 blocks deep to say goodbye to “El Diego,” as he was known. The government had planned to have him lying in state for three days, but cut that down to one at the request of the family.

After Mr. Maradona’s body arrived at the presidential palace early in the morning, members of his family got a few hours to mourn him with an open coffin, in private, before it was closed and visitors were allowed inside.

Once the procession of mourners began, many tossed flowers, cards and jerseys into a pile as they shuffled by the wooden coffin covered in the Argentine flag and several soccer jerseys.

Cries of “thank you, Diego” and “Goodbye, god” rang out amid the silence. Fans almost uniformly respected the family’s wishes and refrained from taking photos.

All the people packed in tightly was a stark sight in a country that has been under strict Covid-19 restrictions for months. For those who were there, saying goodbye was worth the risk.

“He’s my idol,” explained Juan Medina, a 57-year-old shopkeeper who traveled 100 miles with three friends to participate in the ceremony. “How could I not? He’s been making me happy since I was 15.”

Cristian Cuevas, a 36-year-old lawyer, summed up the feeling of many in the crowd.

“We’re all in Diego’s debt for all the happiness he gave us,” he said.





No.12 article:
James D. Wolfensohn, Who Led the World Bank for 10 Years, Dies at 86

He was a force on Wall Street before taking the reins of the bank in 1995, then proceeded to shake it up. He did the same at both Carnegie Hall and the Kennedy Center.

James D. Wolfensohn, who escaped a financially pinched Australian childhood to become a top Wall Street deal maker and a two-term president of the World Bank, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86.

His daughter Naomi Wolfensohn confirmed the death.

Mr. Wolfensohn was a force on Wall Street for years, helping to rescue the Chrysler Corporation while working for Salomon Brothers and running his own thriving boutique firm, before President Bill Clinton nominated him to lead the World Bank, the world’s largest economic development institution.

But he was more than a financier. He led fund-raising efforts as chairman of Carnegie Hall and headed a revival of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. An accomplished cellist under the tutelage of the renowned Jacqueline du Pré, he performed at Carnegie Hall on his milestone birthdays. And as a university fencing champion, he was part of Australia’s 1956 Olympic team, competing in front of his fellow Australians in Melbourne.

But his main legacy was his stewardship of the World Bank, to which President Clinton nominated him in 1995 after he had given up his Australian citizenship 14 years earlier to qualify for the job, only to be passed over.

Arriving at the bank’s Washington headquarters to begin his first five-year term, he found life there too comfortable and its staff members demoralized — a professional malaise, he said, that had them denigrating the bank to their families and even to the news media.

He immediately attacked the bank’s “complacency and insularity,” as he put it. He found that the bank’s emphasis on technocratic, market-based reforms was inhibiting its central mission: aiding the world’s poorest countries.

“I was throwing a grenade into an entrenched culture,” he wrote in his 2010 memoir, “A Global Life: My Journey Among Rich and Poor, From Sydney to Wall Street to the World Bank.”

A priority for Mr. Wolfensohn was to make field visits to poor nations less ceremonial than his predecessors had, and to listen to poor people themselves describe their governance, history and culture. He mounted a campaign against corruption in World Bank projects, breaking what he called “a wall of silence” on the subject. His efforts led to stepped-up audits and put the issue higher on the agendas of developing countries.

“He made it acceptable to talk about corruption,” said Hazel Denton, then a senior project economist for the bank. “Until his time in office, we tended to sweep the topic under the carpet in the interest of getting projects ‘done’ and getting loans disbursed.”

Another Wolfensohn initiative was to shift the bank’s policy on debt incurred by its mostly impoverished African and South American client countries. Instead of insisting on repayment, he sought to write off much of the debt.

“How, I reasoned, could you have a lending business to borrowers of low credit and then pretend that you would be repaid 100 percent on every loan?” he wrote. “I thought that any system that relied on this logic was doomed.”

Catching something of a popular wave, including support from Pope John Paul II (who cited the absolving of debt in Leviticus), World Bank directors in 1996 approved $500 million for a relief trust fund; three years later, they relaxed eligibility for faster and deeper debt relief.

Mr. Wolfensohn said he was particularly proud of having installed a high-speed communications network linking affiliates in 80 countries, allowing interactive video conferencing and distance learning. “Modest, he wasn’t,” declared Fauzia S. Rashid, a staff member who worked with him.

James David Wolfensohn was born on Dec. 1, 1933, and grew up in Sydney, Australia, where his parents, Hyman and Dora Wolfensohn, had moved from London in 1928. The family, which included an older sister, Betty, was always in financial stress even though his father had at one time moved in the upper echelons of British society: He had met James Armand de Rothschild in the British Army and then served as his private secretary, before having a falling-out that the elder Mr. Wolfensohn never explained.

The family’s failure to establish itself in Australia weighed heavily on young James from about the age of 7, producing an obsession with monetary insecurity that carried long into his adult life.

As a child Mr. Wolfensohn“was always doing contingency planning in my head.” he recounted in his memoir. “I remember thinking that if I could have just 10 pounds, my life would be safe. As I grew older I would do calculations on scraps of paper and work out how long I could live on 100 pounds if I only ate cheese and bread.”

After early academic failures related to grade levels beyond his years — he entered the University of Sydney at 16 — Mr. Wolfensohn suddenly began to thrive under the intense mentorship of a renowned professor, Julius Stone, a friend of his father’s. He graduated in 1954.

During law school Mr. Wolfensohn obtained a clerkship with a top Sydney firm, Allen Allen &amp; Hemsley, where a colleague introduced him to fencing. Preferring the épée to the saber despite not being tall and lean, he did well against world-class Italian and British competitors in the Melbourne Olympics before, by his account, becoming distracted and losing.

“The most exciting moment in his life was when he made the Olympics” as a confidence-lacking “colonial kid,” his wife, Elaine Wolfensohn, put it in an interview for this obituary in January. “It had an enormous impact on who he was, who he became.”

With full legal credentials, Mr. Wolfensohn worked on a major antitrust case involving American companies and then decided to apply to Harvard Business School. He eventually flew to attend the school free of charge because of his service in the Royal Australian Air Force Reserve.

While studying there he met Elaine Botwinick, a Wellesley senior who had grown up in Manhattan and New Rochelle, N.Y. They married in 1961 and had three children, Sara, Naomi and Adam.

Ms. Wolfensohn died in August at 83. An advocate for education and the arts, she was an adviser to many boards of directors, including those of American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and Teachers College at Columbia University. Thursday would have been the Wolfensohns’ 59th wedding anniversary.

Mr. Wolfensohn is survived by his children and by seven grandchildren.

After a brief stint with a Swiss cement company, Mr. Wolfensohn returned to Australia to work for a number of banks, including J. Henry Schroder, which sent him to its headquarters in London and then to run its New York office. But when passed over in London for the chairmanship of Schroder, a blue-blood bastion — he said the rejection had “shattered” his fragile sense of security — he sought out Salomon Brothers.

“I was being thrown into the deep end of the toughest business in New York,” he recounted.

After his modest British salary, he said, the idea of earning $2 million to $3 million a year “was both scary and exhilarating,” because this was his first job without what he called a financial safety net.

Mr. Wolfensohn reorganized and built Salomon’s corporate department and helped rescue the Chrysler Corporation through a huge government bailout in 1979 — the largest in American history at the time. Some partners at the firm thought he had spent too much time on the Chrysler deal, however, and his relationship with Salomon soured.

He left the firm after Robert S. McNamara, the head of the World Bank, told him that he had put Mr. Wolfensohn’s name on a list of people who might succeed him. To qualify for the post, Mr. Wolfenson quickly became an American citizen, only to see the job go to Alden W. Clausen. (Mr. Wolfensohn later regained his Australian citizenship.)

Seizing the chance to fulfill a lifelong dream of owning his own business, he opened James D. Wolfensohn Inc., a boutique Wall Street adviser that immediately thrived.

One prominent deal came after Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chief executive of IBM and a board member of The New York Times Company, called to ask if Mr. Wolfensohn would assist in The Times’s purchase of The Boston Globe.

“I felt proud that he had picked us from among all the Wall Street firms, not because I had approached him but because of our reputation for skill and integrity,” Mr. Wolfensohn wrote in his memoir. “With the help of our distinguished neighbor and friend, Arthur (‘Punch’) Sulzberger, the chairman and publisher of The New York Times, and his immensely competent team, we made a successful transaction.”

Twenty years later, however, in a period of downsizing, The Times sold The Globe and other New England media properties for $70 million, far below the $1.1 billion it had paid.

Mr. Wolfensohn became chairman of Carnegie Hall in 1980 and helped raise about $60 million to renovate it after donating $1 million of his own. Ten years later he was invited to help rescue the financially ailing John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, also as chairman. As he wrote in his memoir, he found the Kennedy Center to be a “white elephant” badly in need of physical repairs and more energetic programming.

He also worked for decades on behalf of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.

Mr. Wolfensohn was made an honorary officer of the Order of Australia in 1987 and received an honorary knighthood of the Order of the British Empire in 1995.

At a dinner party one evening, Mr. Wolfensohn, who was 42 at the time, impulsively said that he had always wanted to learn to play the cello. Ms. du Pré had one delivered the next day and agreed to give him lessons on the condition that he would play a concert on his 50th birthday.

Seven years later, Daniel Barenboim, the pianist and conductor (and Ms. du Pré’s husband), reminded him of his pledge and told him that a private performance would not suffice. The concert would be chamber music at Carnegie Hall, Mr. Barenboim said, insisting that Mr. Wolfensohn, who had never played chamber music and never played in public, perform there. The hall was reserved; the date would be Dec. 1, 1983, his birthday.

A year of intense practice ensued, sometimes in hotel rooms around the world — all leading to a Walter Mitty-like performance before an audience of hundreds. Onstage with him were the violinist Isaac Stern, the pianist Vladimir Ashkenazy and other music royalty; the program consisted of works by Haydn and Schumann.

Similar concerts followed on Mr. Wolfensohn’s 60th and 70th birthdays, at the Library of Congress as well as at Carnegie Hall.

On joining the World Bank in 1995, Mr. Wolfensohn divested his stake in his Wall Street firm, where he had recruited Paul A. Volcker to join after Mr. Volcker had retired as chairman of the Federal Reserve. When his partners sold the firm for $210 million to the Bankers Trust Company, Mr. Wolfensohn invoked a clause in his own sale agreement to pocket $45 million in the bank’s stock, half of which he and his wife gave to a family foundation to support the arts, culture and health care.

Ten years later, when he stepped down from the World Bank, Mr. Wolfensohn formed Wolfensohn &amp; Company, another boutique advisory.

His last major undertaking was in the mid-2000s as a special envoy for a diplomatic group known as the Quartet — made up of the United Nations, the United States, the Russian Federation and the European Union — which was seeking an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal in which Israel would disengage from the Gaza Strip. If the deal were struck, he was to help coordinate revitalization efforts once the Palestinian authorities had taken over the area, the U.N. said at the time.

However, the negotiations failed.

“The Middle East,” Mr. Wolfensohn grimly observed, ”turned out to be my mission impossible.”





No.13 article:
Here’s What the Thanksgiving Parade Looked Like in Pandemic New York

The holiday ritual was limited to a block, with parts pretaped for television and barricades to keep people away. Still, a few curious spectators showed up.

It’s a yearly Thanksgiving Day tradition: Millions of spectators crammed onto long city blocks, hanging over barricades and balconies or pressed against the windows of towering office buildings to watch giant balloons, depicting cartoon characters like Pikachu, hovering just a few feet above the street.

But this year, as with everything in 2020, the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade, a ritual marker of the holiday, was drastically different.

Because of the threat of the coronavirus, much of the parade in Manhattan was scaled down and pretaped for the television airing. The route was reduced from two miles to a single block down 34th Street, near the flagship department store.

There were no high school bands. Instead of the usual 2,000 balloon handlers there were only about 130.

Warnings from officials to stay home because of the pandemic kept millions indoors this year, and police barricades were put in place to ensure nobody got too close.

Still, some spectators were curious and showed up anyway.

On 34th Street and Fifth Avenue, Karin Schlosser, 52, stood behind one of the barricades taking photos of the floats and balloons. The balloons this year included the characters Boss Baby and Red Titan from ‘Ryan’s World.’

“I felt like it would be a big adventure to just come on down here and see what I could see — and I actually saw much more than I expected to see,” said Ms. Schlosser, who is from California but is living in New York City for a month while working from home. “This is so amazing.”

“I think people still really need some sense of normalcy,” she added. “Everyone I’ve talked to is very aware of the pandemic. They want to be safe. They’re wearing masks, but they still want to connect with other people.”

Dozens gathered at the same corner shortly after 9 a.m. taking photos with their cellphones. A man with a woman snapped a selfie with Christmas floats in the background. Absent in the photograph was the usual crowd of thousands.

Across the street, a building remained boarded up from the days when owners had braced for unrest after the election results. Police barricades kept the public at least two blocks away from the staging area. The streets beyond the parade route remained largely empty.

Henry Danner, of the Bronx, recalled going to the parade with his family as a child and watching his cousins perform in marching bands. This year, Mr. Danner, 34, a freelance photographer and journalism student at Columbia University, said he was most interested in witnessing and documenting what it was like to attend a parade during a pandemic.

“The Thanksgiving parade is a staple in New York history,” Mr. Danner said. “I came to see what story I could capture. I knew New York was going to be New York and still come out.”

But much about the annual event was different, he said. “The energy is very somber. It’s usually upbeat.”

Kaitlin Lawrence, 31, and Zeev Kirsh, 40, tried to inject the event with a little levity when they decided to attend the parade in turkey costumes. Ms. Lawrence, merged her two favorite holidays: Thanksgiving and Christmas. She dressed as a turkey-Santa.

“We are die-hard New Yorkers and we want to keep the magic alive,” Ms. Lawrence said.

The couple said they first met before the pandemic and later bumped into each other again while cheering on hospital workers at N.Y.U. Langone Health. Their love blossomed during quarantine, they said.

Ms. Lawrence, an actress, recently became a drama teacher after her acting jobs disappeared months ago. “Doing little things like this has really kept us going,” she said.

On the corner of 36th Street and Sixth Avenue, a crowd gathered and cheered as handlers prepared to lift the Boss Baby balloon from the ground. A conductor counted to three and then used a hand-held whistle to guide the handlers down the block. A woman on a FaceTime call angled the phone in the direction of the balloons.

Carolina Capitanio, 37, had traveled from Miami to New York for the holidays with her husband and their two young daughters. Ms. Capitanio said she wanted her children “to see something, but it’s not easy.” Her daughters peered through a row of metal barricades, trying to see the balloons down the street.

Others had similar difficulties.

“I saw half of a balloon,” said Jovan Williams, 43. “If I stayed home I would have seen more of the parade. I couldn’t even tell it started.”

In a normal year, handlers walk to the beat of marching bands and the sound of a roaring crowd.

“That energy was missing,” said Susan Tercero, executive producer of the Macy’s parade.

But Ms. Tercero said she still hoped that viewers enjoyed this year’s production.

“This parade means a lot to a lot of people and to New Yorkers,” Ms. Tercero said. “In a difficult year, it feels good to be able to deliver a little bit of happiness on Thanksgiving.”





No.14 article:
‘Hillbilly Elegy’ Review: I Remember Mamaw

Glenn Close and Amy Adams star in Ron Howard’s Hollywoodized version of J.D. Vance’s best seller.

Early in “Hillbilly Elegy,” Ron Howard’s adaptation of J.D. Vance’s best-selling memoir, J.D. (Gabriel Basso), a Yale law student, attends a fancy dinner with representatives from top firms who are scouting young legal talent. Bewildered at the silverware arrayed around his plate — so many forks! — he calls his girlfriend, Usha (Freida Pinto), a fellow Yalie, who gives him a quick tutorial in the theory and practice of formal table-setting.

An oddly shaped knife, she explains, is used for fish. The scene is meant to emphasize that J.D., a former U.S. Marine with an undergraduate degree from Ohio State and a family rooted in rural Appalachia, is a fish out of water in the Ivy League. The awkward silence when he mentions his background, the casual snobbery about “state schools” and “rednecks,” the smugness that hangs like a fine mist in the New Haven air — all of that brings home a solid, blunt point about the class condescension baked into so many American elite institutions.

Including Hollywood, for all its small-d democratic fantasies. Later, J.D.’s sister, Lindsay (Haley Bennett), will bring him a fried bologna sandwich and wash a sinkful of plastic forks, but this version of “Hillbilly Elegy” (available on Netflix in time for Thanksgiving) has more in common with that Yale soiree than with Lindsay’s backyard cookout.

The intentions are admirable: the filmmakers want to make room for J.D. at the table (Vance is credited as an executive producer) and to give his family story a fair hearing. But it can be hard to figure out what story the filmmakers think they should be telling. Howard and his producing partner, Brian Grazer, along with the screenwriter Vanessa Taylor, have laid the table with heavy silver — a blue-chip cast, a plush orchestral score (by David Fleming and Hans Zimmer), a high-gloss look that gestures toward realism without quite delivering it — and proceeded to mix up the forks.

The narrative zigzags through time and space, starting out in Kentucky, where J.D. spends summers as a boy (played by Owen Asztalos) among his extended family. The older J.D. is called back home to Middletown, Ohio, when his mother, Bev (Amy Adams), overdoses on heroin. Her addiction and general instability while J.D. is growing up, balanced by the benevolent influence of Bev’s mother, Bonnie, universally known as Mamaw (Glenn Close), provide a dramatic structure, or at least an explanation for the regular explosions of drama.

At one point Bev, behind the wheel and suddenly enraged at J.D., floors the accelerator and threatens to crash the car. Adams plays every scene with the pedal to the metal, clocking zero to howling frenzy in 10 or 15 seconds. Close, for her part, lets out a steady barrage of grandmotherly wisdom, obscenity, threats (“I’ll cancel your birth certificate!”) and football-coach-style encouragement. Partnered with Madea in a Tyler Perry movie, Mamaw would be a pop-culture force to be reckoned with. Like Madea, she is an exuberantly profane, slyly self-aware character, but the movie traps Mamaw, and Close, in a sticky web of piety and sincerity. Her individuality is circumscribed by the need to treat her as a symbol — a figure at once cautionary and inspiring, an example of a sociological rule and also the prime exception to it.

A younger Mamaw (Sunny Mabrey) is shown in a carefully tinted flashback leaving Kentucky on Highway 23 as a pregnant teenager, heading to Middletown. In the middle decades of the 20th century, the steel mills there, along with factories in other Midwestern and mid-Atlantic cities, were magnets for Appalachian migrants, and this history is part of the background of Vance’s book.

His aim wasn’t only to recount his mother’s struggles with addiction and celebrate his grandmother’s grit. “Hillbilly Elegy,” published in June of 2016, attracted an extra measure of attention (and controversy) after Donald Trump’s election. It seemed to offer a firsthand report, both personal and analytical, on the condition of the white American working class.

And while the book didn’t really explain the election — Vance is reticent about his family’s voting habits and ideological tendencies — it did venture a hypothesis about how that family and others like it encountered such persistent household dysfunction and economic distress. His answer wasn’t political or economic, but cultural.

He suggests that the same traits that make his people distinctive — suspicion of outsiders, resistance to authority, devotion to kin, eagerness to fight — make it hard for them to thrive in modern American society. Essentially, “Hillbilly Elegy” updates the old “culture of poverty” thesis associated with the anthropologist Oscar Lewis’s research on Mexican peasants (and later with Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s ideas about Black Americans) and applies it to disadvantaged white communities.

Howard and Taylor mostly sidestep this argument, which has been widely criticized. They focus on the characters and their predicaments, and on themes that are likely to be familiar and accessible to a broad range of viewers. The film is a chronicle of addiction entwined with a bootstrapper’s tale — Bev’s story and J.D.’s, with Mamaw as the link between them.

But it sacrifices the intimacy, and the specificity, of those stories by pretending to link them to something bigger without providing a coherent sense of what that something might be. The Vances are presented as a representative family, but what exactly do they represent? A class? A culture? A place? A history? The louder they yell, the less you understand — about them or the world they inhabit.

The strange stew of melodrama, didacticism and inadvertent camp that Howard serves up isn’t the result of a failure of taste or sensitivity. If anything, “Hillbilly Elegy” is too tasteful, too sensitive for its own good, studiously unwilling to be as wild or provocative as its characters. Such tact is in keeping with the moral of its story, which is that success in America means growing up to be less interesting than your parents or grandparents. The best thing I can say about this movie is also the most damning, given Mamaw’s proud indifference to anyone’s good opinion of her. It’s respectable.





No.15 article:
Quotation of the Day: ‘Love Letter to Detroit,’ on Vellum and Chrome

“So often the art was hiding in plain sight, within 20 miles of the museum. I was knocking on doors in suburban Detroit, and the sketches were coming out of dusty boxes.”

BENJAMIN W. COLMAN, associate curator for American art at the Detroit Institute of Arts, on the museum’s show featuring cars and their design sketches.





No.16 article:
Dena Dietrich, Who Found TV Fame as Mother Nature, Dies at 91

In a long acting career she was best known for wreaking havoc in a series of margarine commercials, warning, “It’s not nice to fool Mother Nature.”

Dena Dietrich, the kindly face and fearsome power of Mother Nature to American television viewers in the 1970s, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 91.

The death was announced by SAG-AFTRA, the actors’ union.

Ms. Dietrich was in her early 40s in 1971 when she filmed the first of the television commercials that made her image famous. Dressed as a goddess in a diaphanous white gown, wearing fresh flowers in her hair, she strolled serenely through forests and fields, stopping to dip her pinkie into a small bowl for a taste of “my sweet, creamy butter.”

When an offscreen voice informed her that what she was tasting was actually Chiffon margarine, the goddess snapped, declaring in a quiet but threatening voice, “It’s not nice to fool Mother Nature.” She then raised her outspread arms, thunder roared, lightning bolts flashed and — in some versions of the commercial — wild animals stampeded.

The ad campaign, created by Cunningham &amp; Walsh, ran for almost a decade. When the commercials ended, Ms. Dietrich’s career as a character actress roared on.

During the 1980s and ’90s, she had guest roles on dozens of series, including the comedies “Murphy Brown,” “Mad About You” and “Life With Lucy” and the dramas “NYPD Blue” and “Thirtysomething.” She was a prison guard on “Trapper John, M.D.” (1981) and a self-important psychic conducting séances on “All My Children” (1994).

In a two-part episode of “The Golden Girls” in 1991, she was Bea Arthur’s visiting sister, who has a brief affair with the ex-husband of Ms. Arthur’s character.

By the time Ms. Dietrich found her favorite role, on the legal drama “Philly” (2001-2002), she had white hair. She played a tough judge who liked to bring her snarly pet dog to the courtroom.

“Yes, baby, yes,” she murmurs to the animal in one scene. “All these bad people.”

Deanne Frances Dietrich was born on Dec. 4, 1928, in Pittsburgh, the daughter of Mahlon Lloyd Dietrich, an electrician, and Helen (Wilson) Dietrich. After graduating from West View High School, she studied acting at HB Studios and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.

She appeared in a variety of Off Broadway productions, among them “The Rimers of Eldritch” (1967), a murder drama by Lanford Wilson, at the Cherry Lane Theater.

What would have been her Broadway debut — “The Freaking Out of Stephanie Blake” (1967), a generation-gap comedy — closed in previews, reportedly because its Hollywood star, Jean Arthur, was ill. Ms. Dietrich’s first official Broadway appearance was also brief: “Here’s Where I Belong,” a musical based on John Steinbeck’s “East of Eden,” opened and closed on March 3, 1968.

Then her luck changed. Ms. Dietrich played a sensible older sister in Mike Nichols’s Broadway production of Neil Simon’s “The Prisoner of Second Avenue” (1971). The play, starring Peter Falk and Lee Grant as Manhattanites struggling through a bad economy, ran for almost two years and won two Tony Awards.

Live theater was a long-running facet of Ms. Dietrich’s career. She often told the story of being the understudy for Lillian Roth, who was playing Fanny Brice’s mother, in a national tour of “Funny Girl” in 1965. Ms. Roth made a habit of disappearing shortly before curtain time — or during intermission. Sometimes she came back. Ms. Dietrich learned to make quick costume changes.

In 2005, Ms. Dietrich was a Russian grandmother in “At the Beach House,” a drama by Aram Saroyan, in Los Angeles. Terry Morgan, reviewing the play in Variety, didn’t think much of it but gave at least one cast member solid praise. “Dietrich is quite good as the grandmother, who’s made of tougher stuff than her descendants,” Mr. Morgan wrote, “and her mix of kindness with a hint of steel brings the character to life.”

She worked in film, too. Her first was “The Crazy World of Julius Vrooder” (1974), as a misguided Vietnam veteran’s mother. In Mel Brooks’s “History of the World, Part I” (1981), she was a helpful citizen of ancient Rome, advising Empress Nympho (Madeline Kahn) on partners for the coming orgy.

Her final screen appearance was in “Sister’s Keeper,” a 2007 crime drama about a contract killer.

No immediate family members survive.

In a 2005 video interview, Ms. Dietrich made clear that she had no regrets about being best known for her 30-second margarine ads. In fact, she admitted, her career had largely been limited to New York until she became Mother Nature and Hollywood started to call.

“I’ve loved everything I’ve done” as an actress, she said, then summed up her feelings in four words: “I’ve never regretted anything.”





No.17 article:
Illegal Tampering by Diesel Pickup Owners Is Worsening Pollution, E.P.A. Says

WASHINGTON — The owners and operators of more than half a million diesel pickup trucks have been illegally disabling their vehicles’ emissions control technology over the past decade, allowing excess emissions equivalent to 9 million extra trucks on the road, a new federal report has concluded.

The practice, described in a report by the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Civil Enforcement, has echoes of the Volkswagen scandal of 2015, when the automaker was found to have illegally installed devices in millions of diesel passenger cars worldwide — including about half a million in the United States — designed to trick emissions control monitors.

But in this case no single corporation is behind the subterfuge; it is the truck owners themselves who are installing illegal devices, which are typically manufactured by small companies. That makes it much more difficult to measure the full scale of the problem, which is believed to affect many more vehicles than the 500,000 or so estimated in the report.

In terms of the pollution impact in the United States, “This is far more alarming and widespread than the Volkswagen scandal,” said Drew Kodjak, executive director of the International Council on Clean Transportation, the research group that first alerted the E.P.A. of the illegal Volkswagen technology. “Because these are trucks, the amount of pollution is far, far higher,” he said.

The E.P.A. focused just on devices installed in heavy pickup trucks, such as the Chevrolet Silverado and the Dodge Ram 2500, about 15 percent of which appear to have defeat devices installed. But such devices — commercially available and marketed as a way to improve vehicle performance — almost certainly have been installed in millions of other vehicles.

The report found “significant amounts of excess air pollution caused by tampering” with diesel pickup truck emissions controls. The technology is essentially an at-home version of the factory-installed “defeat devices” embedded into hundreds of thousands of vehicles in the United States by Volkswagen, which was forced to pay $14.7 billion in the U.S. to settle claims stemming from the scandal.

The report said “diesel tuners” will allow the trucks to release more than 570,000 tons of nitrogen dioxide, a pollutant linked to heart and lung disease and premature death, over the lifetime of the vehicles. That is more than ten times the excess nitrogen oxide emissions attributed to the factory-altered Volkswagens sold domestically.

The report also found that the altered pickup trucks will emit about 5,000 excess tons of industrial soot, also known as particulate matter, which is linked to respiratory diseases and higher death rates for Covid-19 patients.

“A global respiratory pandemic is the worst time to find out that there is this massive cheating by the makers of these devices,” said John Walke, an expert in air pollution law at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group, noting recent studies linking higher levels of particulate matter pollution to higher rates of Covid-19.

“That is an astronomically high level of smog-forming pollution,” he added. “It’s happening at ground level where people are breathing the fumes. And if the problem extends to other vehicles it’s almost unimaginable what the health impact will be.”

The E.P.A.’s Office of Civil Enforcement, which is largely staffed with career civil servants, has been conducting the investigation into diesel tuners for about five years, since it discovered the cheating by Volkswagen. An E.P.A. official familiar with the report, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the record, said it represents a significant milestone in the ongoing investigation.

The report was completed last week, though the E.P.A. has not publicized it or issued a news release, which stands in contrast to the media blitz assembled by the Obama-era agency for the Volkswagen investigation. In this instance, word got out after Evan Belser, the deputy director of the office’s Air Enforcement Division, emailed a copy of the report to the heads of three state air pollution control organizations.

A spokesman for the E.P.A., James Hewitt, initially said Wednesday that he was unfamiliar with the report. In a statement emailed after he was informed of it, Mr. Hewitt said, “Under our National Compliance Initiative, in FY 2020, E.P.A., resolved more civil tampering and aftermarket defeat device cases (31) that prevented more motor vehicle emissions (14.6 million pounds) than in any prior year in the agency’s history. Additionally, E.P.A. has assessed more in civil penalties, criminal fines, and restitution under this administration than the first four years of the Obama administration.”

The report studied only diesel pickup trucks weighing between 8,500 pounds and 14,000 pounds, but E.P.A. analysts believe the cheating has spread across American garages and highways.

“One reason it is difficult to estimate the full extent of tampering nationwide is that the Air Enforcement Division has reason to believe this conduct occurs within most or all categories of vehicles and engines, including commercial trucks, passenger vehicles, pickup trucks, motorcycles, forestry equipment and agricultural equipment,” the report concluded.

“The aftermarket defeat device problem is huge,” said Phillip Brooks, a former E.P.A. emissions investigator who worked on the diesel tuner investigation and the Volkswagen case. “A lot of people just don’t understand what the problem is — your average person buys a vehicle and says, it’s my vehicle, I can do what I want with it. They may not even be aware that these devices are illegal.”

“But,” he continued, “the real question is impact. If 10 people do it, there’s no impact. But these are numbers that are meaningful for air quality.”

“This is not a great way to express how to be a free American, but there are a lot of people out there who think that way,” Mr. Brooks concluded.

Retailers generally sell the illegal defeat devices online and in public, the report said, but “operate in a secretive manner such that the nature and extent of their operations are not reflected in their business records.”

The E.P.A. investigators found at least 28 different companies involved with the manufacturing of at least 45 diesel tuners. The report does not name the companies because, it says, E.P.A.’s investigation of the matter is ongoing.

A crackdown on the diesel-tuner market would be far more difficult than pursuing a single company like Volkswagen. “There’s a lot of small businesses in play; it’s more difficult to enforce than the one big global automaker,” said Mr. Kodjak of the International Council on Clean Transportation. “Amazon sells diesel tuning equipment. You can retune your engine for $400.”

“Not all of these are illegal, by any means,” he added. “A lot of them are mom-and-pop places.”

Over the course of its investigation, the E.P.A. has shut down some manufacturers: Earlier this year, the agency reached an $850,000 settlement with Punch It Performance and Tuning, a small Florida company that had been selling illegal diesel tuners online.

According to E.P.A. documents, the settlement was lower “due to their limited financial ability to pay a higher penalty. In order to pay this penalty, Defendants have represented that they will sell residential real estate properties that they purchased with profits made from the manufacture and sale of defeat devices.”

Experts said the findings also point to weaknesses in state and local emissions inspection programs, which are entrusted to make sure cars and trucks comply with environmental law and emissions standards.

Federal funding for state enforcement programs has been flat for more than a decade. The E.P.A.’s budget for state and local implementation of the Clean Air Act has been the same every year since 2004: $228 million.

“There are state and local codes and laws in place to crack down on this,” said Miles Keough, the executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies. “But they are all running on the same small budget.”

At many state and municipal emissions inspections stations, inspectors do not actually test tailpipe emissions, explained Mr. Brooks. Instead, they use computers simply to get readings from a vehicle’s computer.

With a defeat device, he said, “the computer on the truck tells the computer at the emissions station, everything’s fine.”





No.18 article:
N.J. Governor Wants Schools Open. Local Officials Have Other Ideas.

The tensions point to the difficulty governors across the Northeast have had in persuading districts to reopen — decisions that often require school boards to buck powerful unions.

SCOTCH PLAINS, N.J. — Gov. Philip D. Murphy has urged New Jersey school districts to open for some face-to-face instruction, repeatedly noting that the coronavirus spread among teachers and students was far lower than expected.

Last week, as New York City was reeling from the mayor’s decision to close the nation’s largest school district, Mr. Murphy joined with six other governors — including New York’s — to release a public statement about the importance, and relative safety, of in-person instruction.

His own schools weren’t listening: While most districts in New Jersey had reopened for some in-person instruction, many announced plans this week to return to all-remote learning through all or part of the holidays.

The tensions point to the difficulty governors across the Northeast have had in persuading districts to reopen more fully — decisions that often require school boards to buck powerful teachers unions and to live with the inherent risk of outbreaks as the virus surges.

Parents and children are often caught in the middle, forced to quickly shift routines and expectations in a year already marred by the extraordinary challenges of remote instruction.

In Scotch Plains-Fanwood, a midsize New Jersey district about 30 miles from Manhattan, the superintendent announced that schools would remain closed for at least two months less than 24 hours before many students were preparing to return to classrooms for the first time since March.

The superintendent, Joan Mast, cited 15 virus cases that had affected schools, but acknowledged that none involved in-school transmission. Most elementary students had been back in class for less than five days, and the older children had never gone back at all.

Pragati Duttaroy, a mother of two who turned up for a protest last week outside the Scotch Plains-Fanwood district offices, said her fourth-grade daughter, who has special education needs, was devastated.

“She had the best week of her life in school,” Ms. Duttaroy said about the week school was open for in-person instruction. “Now she’s home crying.”

“This school district is not using any true metrics to make a decision,” she added.

Mr. Murphy, a Democrat, has the power to shut down schools, as he did in March when New York and New Jersey were an early epicenter of the pandemic. And he has said that decisions about all-remote instruction need state approval and that districts must be working toward bringing students back to class.

Still, for all the governor’s public exhortations, a spokesman for the New Jersey Department of Education could not point to a single instance when the state rejected a district’s plan to shift to all-remote instruction.

The governors of Massachusetts and Connecticut have faced similar pressure from districts and unions as they continue to stress the importance of in-person education. In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo offered a plan to keep New York City’s schools open for at least a few more days, but the mayor rebuffed him.

In New Jersey, the governor’s approach has led the state’s 584 school districts to chart their own paths and has largely insulated him from direct criticism about unpopular decisions to close schools.

“Ultimately, he should be deciding what happens to our schools,” said Danielle Wildstein, a mother of three from Scotch Plains who organized last week’s protest. “And if he is going to leave it up to the districts, then he should be requiring them to make the decisions based on data with context.”

According to the state, 269 infections have been linked to 66 schools since September.

Many of the districts that have announced new temporary closures have cited the state’s drastic uptick in the number of virus cases, the need for a 14-day quarantine buffer after likely holiday gatherings and the stubborn rate of positive virus tests.

The rate of positive tests in New Jersey was 9 percent as of Friday — triple the rate that led New York City to close its schools.

In the statement with his fellow Northeast governors, Mr. Murphy said that proper precautions could alleviate the risk of the virus in schools — “even in communities with high transmission rates.”

“In-person learning is the best possible scenario for children,” the governors said last Thursday on Twitter.

The statement drew a mild public rebuke from the New Jersey teachers union, one of the Democratic governor’s key allies. Union officials said they were “dismayed” that the governor had “downplayed the danger.”

A spokeswoman for Mr. Murphy, Christine Lee, said Wednesday that the conversation between districts and the state involved “the efforts the district would make to implement in-person instruction.”

“As we look ahead, the administration and D.O.E. will continue our dialogue with school communities, emphasizing the importance of in-person learning while continuing to monitor and respond to shifts in the public-health data,” she said in a statement.

State Senator M. Teresa Ruiz, a Democrat who represents Newark and leads the Senate Education Committee, said that, in general, she was “disappointed with the D.O.E.’s vision during this pandemic.”

The state’s largest city districts, including Newark, have been closed since March.

“The department should have been more of a resource,” Ms. Ruiz said, “so that we didn’t have individual districts scrambling across the board.”

Ms. Ruiz has introduced legislation that calls for the state to administer standardized tests to establish a diagnostic benchmark of how far students are falling behind.

“I would make the assumption, and I hope I’m entirely wrong, that you’re going to see a continuation of the learning loss,” she said.

Summertime decisions about how to return to school in New Jersey came amid a leadership gap at the state’s education department: The commissioner, Lamont Repollet, took a new job as a college president, and two top assistant commissioners with decades of experience also left.

Mr. Murphy named a new acting education chief, Angelica Allen-McMillan, late last month.

Kyle Rosenkrans, executive director of the New Jersey Children’s Foundation, a Newark-based education nonprofit, said that he believed the flexibility districts were given was appropriate. But he said that the state had done a poor job of setting standards for measuring attendance and academic progress during the pandemic.

“I think where the ‘let-a-thousand-flowers-bloom strategy’ falls apart is where we’re setting minimum standards for academic progress,” said Mr. Rosenkrans, whose organization conducted a poll released last week that found that only 42 percent of New Jersey parents were satisfied with the quality of remote instruction.

“As in so many contexts,” Mr. Rosenkrans said, “if you’re low income, a student of color, you’re getting set further behind.”

In Scotch Plains, a predominantly white suburban district, Dr. Mast said the decision to close was made in consultation with public health officials and with support from the board of education. She said she did not need state approval to close.

Her initial decision not to reopen in September was linked to the need to make ventilation improvements, Dr. Mast said. Her recent decision to keep schools closed through the middle of January was based on cases of the virus in the community and concerns about staff shortages if teachers were required to quarantine, she said.

“Operating a school with inadequate supervision is a risk I cannot afford to take at any time,” Dr. Mast said in an email.

David B. Levine, a pediatrician with young children in the school district, said the new two-month closure was especially hard to accept given that the district had not taken advantage of September and October, when the infection rate was far lower, to reopen fully, as many nearby districts had.

“There’s a right way and a wrong way to go about doing this safely,” said Dr. Levine, who ran unsuccessfully for the school board and spoke at last week’s rally.

“Keeping children home and having them sit around and become more ill in other ways is playing chicken with our lives,” he said.

The majority of districts in New Jersey had slowly reopened for partial in-person instruction. Many have adapted to rolling 14-day school closures if two or more infections are found to be linked to in-school transmission, as suggested by the state.

Some districts have managed to open to all students every day.

In Edison, a large, diverse suburban district in northern New Jersey, about 70 percent of the district’s 17,000 students chose to continue online-only instruction even after schools reopened for hybrid in-person learning in October, said Bernard F. Bragen Jr., the district’s superintendent.

Since then, just one of Edison’s 19 schools has had to close for two weeks after an outbreak.

Starting last week, all students interested in attending school were allowed to come to class each day schools were open based on the large number of families that had opted to keep their children home for all-virtual learning.

The demands on teachers, who are offering simultaneous instruction to students sitting in the classroom as well as those at home, have been extraordinary, he said.

“It’s extremely difficult and exhausting to staff,” Dr. Bragen said. “They’re doing the best that they can in a bad situation.”





No.19 article:
In Praise of Janet Yellen the Economist

She never forgot that economics is about people.

It’s hard to overstate the enthusiasm among economists over Joe Biden’s selection of Janet Yellen as the next secretary of the Treasury. Some of this enthusiasm reflects the groundbreaking nature of her appointment. She won’t just be the first woman to hold the job, she’ll be the first person to have held all three of the traditional top U.S. policy positions in economics — chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, chair of the Federal Reserve and now Treasury secretary.

And yes, there’s a bit of payback for Donald Trump, who denied her a well-earned second term as Fed chair, reportedly in part because he thought she was too short.

But the good news about Yellen goes beyond her ridiculously distinguished career in public service. Before she held office, she was a serious researcher. And she was, in particular, one of the leading figures in an intellectual movement that helped save macroeconomics as a useful discipline when that usefulness was under both external and internal assault.

Before I get there, a word about Yellen’s time at the Federal Reserve, especially her time on the Fed’s board in the early 2010s, before she became chair.

At the time, the U.S. economy was slowly clawing its way back from the Great Recession — a recovery impeded, not incidentally, by Republicans in Congress who pretended to care about national debt and imposed spending cuts that significantly hurt economic growth. But spending wasn’t the only issue of debate; there were also fierce arguments about monetary policy.

Specifically, there were many people on the right condemning the Fed’s efforts to rescue the economy from the effects of the 2008 financial crisis. Among them, by the way, was Judy Shelton, the totally unqualified hack Trump is still trying to install on the Fed board, who warned in 2009 that the Fed’s actions would produce “ruinous inflation.” (Hint: They didn’t.)

Even within the Fed, there was a division between “hawks” worried about inflation and “doves” who insisted that inflation wasn’t a threat in a depressed economy, and that fighting the depression should take priority. Yellen was one of the leading doves — and a 2013 analysis by The Wall Street Journal found that she had been the most accurate forecaster among Fed policymakers.

Why did she get it right? Part of the answer, I’d argue, goes back to academic work she did in the 1980s.

At the time, as I’ve suggested, useful macroeconomics was under attack. What I mean by “useful macroeconomics” was the understanding, shared by economists from John Maynard Keynes to Milton Friedman, that monetary and fiscal policy could be used to fight recessions and reduce their economic and human toll.

This understanding didn’t fail the test of reality — on the contrary, the experience of the early 1980s strongly confirmed the predictions of basic macroeconomics.

But useful economics was under threat.

On one side, right-wing politicians turned away from reality-based economics in favor of crank doctrines, especially the claim that governments can conjure up miraculous growth by cutting taxes on the rich. On the other side, a significant number of economists themselves rejected any role for policy in fighting recessions, claiming that there would be no need for such a role if people were acting rationally in their own interests, and that economic analysis should always assume that people are rational.

Which is where Yellen came in; she was a prominent figure in the rise of “new Keynesian” economics, which rested on one key insight: People aren’t stupid, but they aren’t perfectly rational and self-interested. And even a bit of realism about human behavior restores the case for aggressive policies to fight recessions. In later work Yellen would show that labor market outcomes depend a lot not just on pure dollars-and-cents calculations, but also on perceptions of fairness.

All this may sound abstruse, but I can vouch from my own experience that this work had a huge impact on many young economists — basically giving them a license to be sensible.

And it seems to me that there’s a direct line from the disciplined realism of Yellen’s academic research to her success as a policymaker. She was always someone who understood the value of data and models. Indeed, rigorous thinking becomes more, not less important in crazy times like these, when past experience offers little guidance about what we should be doing. But she also never forgot that economics is about people, who aren’t the emotionless, hyperrational calculating machines economists sometimes wish they were.

Now, none of this means that things will necessarily go well. The race is not to the swift, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet success to policymakers of understanding, but time and chance happen to them all. Trump’s cabinet was a clown show — possibly the worst cabinet in America’s history — but it wasn’t until 2020 that the consequences of the administration’s incompetence became fully apparent.

Still, it’s immensely reassuring to know that economic policy will be made by someone who knows what she is doing.





No.20 article:
Military’s Role in Vaccine Will Be Strictly Behind the Scenes, Despite Trump’s Claims

While no troops will be administering shots or dropping off doses, scores of Defense Department employees are involved in the effort.

WASHINGTON — When President Trump talks about efforts to deliver the coronavirus vaccine to millions of Americans eager to return to their normal lives, he often says he is “counting on the military” to get it done.

Mr. Trump has given the impression that troops would be packing up vials, transporting them from factories to pharmacies and perhaps even administering shots. And, at times, military officers working on the sprawling interagency program to move those vaccine doses from drug companies into doctors’ offices have indicated the same thing.

In reality, the role of the military has been less public and more pervasive than this characterization suggests.

When companies have lacked the physical spaces needed to conduct their drug trials, the Defense Department has acquired trailers and permits to create pop-up medical sites in parking lots. When a required piece of plastic or glass was in short supply, the military leveraged a law passed during the Korean War to force manufacturers to move them to the front of the line. Should a hurricane hit somewhere, blocking trucks, the military has transportation ready.

But the distribution of vaccines will be left largely to their producers and commercial transportation companies. Black Hawk helicopters will not be landing next to neighborhood drugstore to drop off doses. No troops will be administering shots.

“It is extremely unlikely that anyone from the government will touch a vaccine, whether that’s loading a truck, unloading a truck, moving dry ice or actually injecting the vaccine before Americans getting it,” said Paul Mango, the deputy chief of staff for policy at the Department of Health and Human Services and the main spokesman for Operation Warp Speed, the multiagency federal consortium for fast-tracking a vaccine.

However, he added, “every logistical detail you could think of, needles, syringes, swabs, bandages, dry ice,” could be procured through the government contracting process, and often faster than through the private sector.

Scores of Defense Department employees are laced through the government offices involved in the effort, making up a large portion of the federal personnel devoted to the effort. Those numbers have led some current and former officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to privately grumble that the military’s role in Operation Warp Speed was too large for a task that is, at its core, a public health campaign.

“Frankly, it has been breathtaking to watch,” said Paul Ostrowski, the director of supply, production and distribution for Operation Warp Speed. He is a retired Army lieutenant general who was selected to manage logistics for the program by Gen. Gustave F. Perna, the chief operating officer for Operation Warp Speed.

Wrangling volunteers for four expedited vaccine trials — a chore in any circumstance — became even more challenging during a pandemic, when asking hundreds of thousands of subjects to sit in hospital waiting rooms and other health care centers was often not feasible. The Pentagon has helped three companies — AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen — set up pop-up sites to conduct trials at 63 locations nationwide.

Needed for each site: double-wide trailers equipped with wheelchair ramps and septic systems. Also, some will need to be hurricane-proof.

These are the types of things that the military can quickly obtain through its contracting system, as well as any permits needed to set it all up. “We have the ability to set up large-scale housing capabilities throughout the entire world at a moment’s notice,” General Ostrowski said.

Military officials can call up companies, he said, “And say, ‘I need X number of trailers, and I need them immediately.’” The personnel on his team “work closely with all the city officials to make sure we have all the certificates and that all the codes are being addressed,” he said.

The two pharmaceutical companies currently leading the vaccine race, Pfizer and Moderna, have estimated that they will have 45 million doses, or enough to vaccinate 22.5 million Americans, by early next year. Because they began manufacturing vaccines that were awaiting federal approval, they should be ready to begin shipping them within days of securing it.

But some companies were hampered by a lack of excess manufacturing capacity in the United States and a shortage of many of the goods needed to make and package vaccines. For raw materials, the military has been able to leverage its contracting muscle, as well as the Defense Production Act, a Korean War-era law that permits the federal government to impose some control over the private sector.

“Everyone is clamoring for that substance or this product,” General Ostrowski said. “That’s what we do, we understand capturing supply chains.”

Operation Warp Speed has issued six Defense Production Act orders to companies to put themselves at the front of the line for certain supplies, like large vats needed to produce a vaccine. In October, the government awarded $31 million to the manufacturer Cytiva to expand production of the vats.

“There are only a certain number of producers of those in the world,” General Ostrowski said. “We were able to make sure they knew where the priority was.”

Military officials also came up with the clever idea — if it works — to coordinate the delivery of vaccines to drugstores, medical centers and other immunization sites by sending kits full of needles, syringes and alcohol wipes. Vaccine makers will be alerted when the kits arrive at an immunization site so they know to ship doses. Once the first dose is given, the manufacturer will be notified so it can send the second dose with a patient’s name attached several weeks later.

But when it comes to the herculean task of vaccine distribution, the job will largely fall to the manufacturers to get the vaccines from loading docks to pharmacies and medical offices.

While governors may use their National Guard units in their vaccine programs, the military is least likely to play a role in moving doses of the vaccine — and certainly troops are not expected to help administer shots, even though Mr. Trump has suggested that they will.

“I was surprised when Trump talked about the Department of Defense disseminating any vaccine,” said Dr. Marcus Plescia, the chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, which has been deeply involved in the planning process for the vaccines. “There is not any role for the military there. And if there were, we would be up in arms about it because we are advocates for the states.”

Concerns about conspiracy theories surrounding the vaccines are even more reason to keep the military out of sight, Dr. Plescia said. “There has been a lot of concern around vaccine hesitancy, and having a bunch of troops around would not be very helpful,” he said. “Even having the National Guard participate could have a down side.”

As one of the largest suppliers of liquid-injectable medicine in the country, Pfizer already has a large network of commercial shippers that helps move its drugs from its manufacturing facility in Michigan to providers around the country. This will be all the more important with the company’s coronavirus vaccine, which needs to be kept at a subfreezing temperature.

The military has spent hours conducting tabletop exercises to help think through how the program could go awry and how it might need to step in to help.

“The government has offered any and all support and is prepared to help clear any obstacle,” said Amy Rose, a spokeswoman for Pfizer. Of the six companies developing a vaccine, the pharmaceutical giant was the only one to reject federal funding.

Pentagon planners have looked at a range of risks to distributing a vaccine, from large-scale protests that could disrupt traffic to poor weather conditions. The military says it can use its airplanes and helicopters to deliver vaccines to remote locations, but only if no other means of transportation are feasible. 

The military will also monitor vaccine distribution through an operations center. “They will know where every vaccine dose is,” Mr. Mango said on a call with reporters. “If a vaccine dose is at risk of expiring, they will guide the movement of that to someplace else.”

General Ostrowski said this specific assignment was worth delaying his retirement. “This is very important to our nation and our world,” he said. “I could think of no better challenge and something more noble than being able to do this.”





No.21 article:
‘Loser’: How a Lifelong Fear Bookended Trump’s Presidency

The president’s inability to concede the election is the latest reality-denying moment in a career preoccupied with an epithet.

In the now-distant Republican presidential primaries of 2016, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas handily won the Iowa caucuses. This was determined by a method that has lately come under attack but at the time was considered standard: elementary math.

One of the losers in Iowa, the developer and television personality Donald J. Trump, soon accused Mr. Cruz of electoral theft. He fired off several inflammatory tweets, including this foreshadowing of our current democracy-testing moment: “Based on the fraud committed by Senator Ted Cruz during the Iowa Caucus, either a new election should take place or Cruz results nullified.”

The episode vanished in the tsunami of political vitriol to come during the Trump presidency. Still, it reflects what those who have worked with Mr. Trump say is his modus operandi when trying to slip the humiliating epithet he has so readily applied to others.

Loser.

“The first thing he calls someone who has wronged him is a loser,” said Jack O’Donnell, who ran an Atlantic City casino for Mr. Trump in the 1980s. “That’s his main attack word. The worst thing in his world would be to be a loser. To avoid being called a loser, he will do or say anything.”

Across his long career, he has spun, cajoled and attacked — in the press, in lawsuits and lately, of course, on Twitter — whenever faced with appearing as anything less than the superlative of the moment: the greatest, the smartest, the healthiest, the best. This has at times required audacious attempts to twist a negative into a positive, often by saying something over and over until it either displaces the truth or exhausts the audience into surrender.

It is a matter of record that Mr. Trump has been a loser in many business ventures (Trump Steaks, anyone?). In fact, his greatest success flowed not from real estate but from the creation of a popular alternate-reality television persona — Donald Trump, master of the boardroom — that he ultimately rode to the White House.

But his famous aversion to the label of loser has now reached its apotheosis.

Since Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the winner of the Nov. 3 election — and Mr. Trump therefore declared the loser — the president has repeatedly trafficked in baseless allegations of a fraudulent and corrupt electoral process. What was once considered the quirky trait of a self-involved New York developer has become an international embarrassment, nearly upending the sacred transition of power and leaving the world’s foremost democracy — grappling with a deadly pandemic and a teetering economy — with a leader who refuses to concede despite the basic math.

“AND I WON THE ELECTION,” Mr. Trump tweeted last week. “VOTER FRAUD ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.”

On Monday, the Trump administration finally authorized a weeks-delayed transition process after Michigan certified Mr. Biden as its winner. Still, Mr. Trump continued to press quixotic lawsuits and tweet of fraud and defiant resolve.

“Our case STRONGLY continues, we will keep up the good fight.”

“This was a LANDSLIDE!”

And for Thanksgiving: “Just saw the vote tabulations. There is NO WAY Biden got 80,000,000 votes!!! This was a 100% RIGGED ELECTION.”

The president’s tweets have succeeded in sowing doubt about the foundational underpinnings of the republic among his many millions of followers. In a recent Reuters/Ipsos poll, about half the Republicans questioned believed that Mr. Trump had “rightfully won” re-election, and 68 percent expressed concern that the election was “rigged.”

Such behavior by the president reflects a binary-code approach to life that spares no room for nuance or complication. If a person isn’t a one, then that person is a zero.

“You are either a winner or a loser,” Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, said in an interview last week. “Reality is secondary. It is all about perception.”

Mr. Cohen, who was convicted in 2018 of tax evasion and campaign finance violations and who has since become a vocal critic of the president, provided several examples in his recent book, “Disloyal: A Memoir.”

Mr. Cohen recounted how, in 2014, CNBC was preparing a poll of the 25 most influential people in the world. Mr. Trump, who initially ranked 187th out of 200, ordered Mr. Cohen to improve his standing.

“Just make sure I make it to the top 10,” Mr. Trump said, according to Mr. Cohen.

Mr. Cohen hired someone to assess the options. After that person determined that the poll could be manipulated, $15,000 was spent to buy discreet I.P. addresses through which votes for Mr. Trump could be cast. The scheme worked, with Mr. Trump elevated to ninth place when all the votes were counted.

“Before long, Trump believed he really was rated in the top 10 and was regarded as a profoundly important business figure,” Mr. Cohen wrote.

But CNBC removed Mr. Trump from the list without offering an explanation. The infuriated future president ordered Mr. Cohen to get the network to change course. This failed. He then ordered him to plant a story in the media about “the terrible treatment Trump had received at the hands of CNBC.” This also failed.

Still, Mr. Trump managed to exploit the fake ranking before he was dropped from the list. “He had hundreds of copies made, and he added the poll to the pile of newspaper clippings and magazine profiles of himself that he would give to visitors,” Mr. Cohen wrote.

This fear of being seen as somehow less than the very best is a recurring theme in the mountains of books and articles written about Mr. Trump. Many observers of Trump family history have reflected on the influence of the patriarch, the developer Fred C. Trump, who had his own version of the binary taxonomy of humanity: the strong and the weak.

Mr. Trump flicked at this in his book “Trump: The Art of the Deal,” in which he recalled gluing together the blocks of his younger brother, Robert, effectively ensuring that he would not be outdone in any competition involving — blocks.

“That was the end of Robert’s blocks,” he wrote.

A grown-up iteration of that episode came at a seminal moment in the man’s career: the opening of his Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City in 1990.

According to Mr. O’Donnell, who was deeply involved in the venture, Mr. Trump pushed to have the casino open prematurely because he feared the shame a delay would bring after promising the world a glitzy, celebrity-packed opening.

The casino wasn’t ready; among other issues, only a quarter of the slot machines were open, leaving the cavernous space quiet and empty. “It was just horrible,” recalled Mr. O’Donnell, who wrote a book about his experiences with the future president. “It didn’t look like a normal casino.”

Privately, Mr. Trump was furious, and blamed his brother Robert for some of the problems. (The younger Trump quit and did not speak to his brother for years.) Publicly, though, Mr. Trump boasted of the wonder that was the Taj Mahal.

Appearing on CNN’s “Larry King Live” in April 1990, Mr. Trump said the only problem with the Taj Mahal’s opening day was too much success. Gamblers were playing the slots with such ferocity that the machines almost burst into flames.

“We had machines that — they were virtually on fire,” Mr. Trump said. “Nobody’s ever seen anything like this.”

The Taj Mahal filed for bankruptcy the following year, which left Mr. Trump’s many lenders and bondholders in the lurch.

Mr. Trump expounded on his worldview in a 2014 interview with the author Michael D’Antonio. “You can be tough and ruthless and all that stuff, and if you lose a lot, nobody’s going to follow you, because you’re looked at as a loser,” he said. “Winning is a very important thing. The most important aspect of leadership is winning. If you have a record of winning, people are going to follow you.”

Mr. Trump has often used the courts to try to crush anyone who might cast doubt on his Olympian standing in wealth and success. A standout in this category is the $5 billion lawsuit he filed against the journalist Timothy L. O’Brien, whose 2005 book, “TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald,” argued that Mr. Trump’s net worth was no more than $250 million — that he was not, in other words, a billionaire.

Mr. O’Brien reported that Mr. Trump attributed the chasmic discrepancy to envy. “You can go ahead and speak to guys who have 400 pound wives at home,” Mr. Trump said, “but the guys who really know me know I’m a great builder.”

The lawsuit was dismissed.

Of course, Mr. Trump’s need to be seen as a winner has informed his presidency. The self-declared superlatives cover all bases, from being the “best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico” to doing the most for Black Americans (with the “possible exception” of Abraham Lincoln). In anticipation of his eventual impeachment, Mr. Trump referred to himself as “our greatest of all presidents.”

Perhaps the most famous moment in which this desire bled into public policy came in late 2018, when Mr. Trump used an approaching government shutdown to demand funding for one of his central fixations: a wall along the Mexican border.

After Mr. Trump encouraged his fellow Republicans in Congress to reach a compromise, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, worked out a deal to avoid a shutdown and temporarily set aside negotiations over security measures, including a border wall.

It appeared that Mr. Trump would sign the deal — that is, until conservative pundits accused the president of caving to Democrats, of breaking his “Build the Wall” promise, of effectively being a loser.

The president reversed course, and so began the longest federal government shutdown in the country’s history — at an estimated cost to the economy of $11 billion, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.

After Mr. Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States in January 2017, his administration asserted that the inauguration’s audience was the largest ever, despite all evidence to the contrary. But any suggestion otherwise would have rendered Mr. Trump a loser in some imagined contest about inaugural crowd sizes.

Now, nearly four years later, the citizens have cast their ballots, baseless lawsuits alleging electoral fraud have been dismissed and states have certified the vote. Still, the loser of the 2020 presidential election continues to see crowds that the rest of the country does not.

It ends as it began.





No.22 article:
The Heir to the Manning Quarterback Legacy Isn’t on TikTok

Arch Manning, 16, nephew of Peyton and Eli, has a protective family to steer him from the perils of fame and expectation. And a grandfather, Archie, who texts him reminders to “have fun.”

Last summer, while reading a list of Louisiana’s top college football recruiting prospects, Archie Manning noticed that only one of the high school players did not have a Twitter account. It happened to be his grandson and namesake Arch, a nephew of Peyton and Eli.

“I was kind of proud of that,” the elder Manning said in a telephone interview.

At 16, Archibald Charles Manning is a 6-foot-3 ½ inch, 198-pound sophomore at the Isidore Newman School in New Orleans, the latest flowering branch on the family quarterback tree and potentially the third generation of the Manning family to play in the N.F.L. As such, he is being nurtured and protected by relatives who fully understand — and have the experience and the means to address — the possibilities and hazards of fame and expectation.

In a rapacious social media age and a hothouse recruiting era when players are sometimes offered college scholarships in the eighth grade, Cooper Manning, Arch’s father and Peyton’s and Eli’s older brother, said, “I’m doing my best to keep it all in check and let him be a normal kid.”

A season ago, when Arch became Newman’s starting quarterback as a freshman — something neither of his uncles had done — he was named by MaxPreps, a leading high school sports website, as the national freshman of the year after completing 65.5 percent of his passes for 2,408 yards and 34 touchdowns with only six interceptions.

He is ranked as the top quarterback for the 2023 recruiting class. On Nov. 13, Manning threw five touchdown passes in the first quarter of a homecoming rout. But he is still learning to navigate the intense anticipation of stardom and scrutiny of his performance fostered by his family name. After throwing three interceptions in last week’s regular-season finale, he seemed downcast even though his team won, 31-8, and remained undefeated.

Despite that disappointment, Newman (8-0) prepares to enter Louisiana’s playoffs next week as the No. 1 seed in its division. Manning will attempt to lead the Greenies to their first state football championship at the Superdome, the building where his grandfather threw touchdown passes for the New Orleans Saints 40 years ago.

“He’s worth the price of admission,” said Lyle Fitte, the coach at South Plaquemines High School in Buras, La., Newman’s final regular-season opponent. “He displays the characteristics of a college quarterback now. Pocket presence, keeping his eyes downfield, going through his reads, even-keeled. He’s very mobile, can throw on the run. I think he’s better than his uncles were at this point. He’s learned from the best, for sure.”

The curly-haired Arch also seems to possess the family’s easy humor. Last summer, he told a television reporter that, with his uncles retired, he gives as good as he gets as far as needling. When they call him skinny and ask how much he can bench press, he asks how fast they can run the 40-yard dash. “They won’t talk,” he said, laughing.

Arch fully understands the recruiting process and his standing in it, his grandfather said. But the Mannings have pumped the brakes on comparisons to his Hall-of-Fame caliber family members. And they have been cautious in keeping their emerging star from racing full speed into the world of sports celebrity and breathless recruiting speculation.

As a freshman, Arch did not give interviews and avoided social media. The family declined all scholarship offers. This year, Arch has spoken with college coaches, but the N.C.A.A.’s coronavirus restrictions have prohibited them from Isidore Newman’s campus and games.

In mid-October, he completed 21 of 26 passes for one touchdown, and rushed for two more, in a game before a national TV audience. A YouTube highlight video titled “The Next Manning” had been viewed nearly three million times through late November. A filmmaker has documented his career since he was in the seventh grade. Arch has usually accommodated local reporters after games this season but was not made available by his father over the phone for this article. Arch unfailingly credits his teammates in interviews, though he is said to find the ceaseless spotlight a bit silly. And he still scrambles away from social media.

“People are too early to crown you and condemn you,” his father Cooper, a real estate executive, said.

Cooper Manning, 46, started on a state championship basketball team at Newman and was an all-state receiver whose football career ended at the University of Mississippi just as it began. In 1992, he was diagnosed with spinal stenosis, a narrowing of the spinal canal that can cause numbness and muscle weakness.

He is happy to talk about his daughter, May, 17, who was recently named the most valuable player as her team won a state volleyball championship at the Academy of the Sacred Heart in New Orleans. And how his wife, Ellen, achieved similar acclaim when she attended Sacred Heart. And how his youngest son, Heid, a freshman at Newman, soon to be 15, could become the Greenies’ starting center next season, snapping the ball to his brother.

But he is reluctant to say much about Arch, not wanting his eldest son to be swamped in a tidal wave of attention and the ruthless, scraping undertow of Twitter and Instagram.

“It’s supposed to be fun,” he said.

Given familial and geographic connections to the Mannings, colleges including Mississippi (Archie, Cooper and Eli’s alma mater), Tennessee (Peyton’s), Duke (where David Cutcliffe, who coached Peyton and Eli in college, runs the program), and Louisiana State, Alabama, Georgia and Texas have been speculated as potential landing spots for Arch. “I don’t think M.I.T. is calling anytime soon,” his father said in a radio interview last summer, swiping at the panting conjecture that accompanies football recruiting in the South.

“The Manning way is to empower the young man to figure out what’s important to him and let him make his own decision,” Cutcliffe said.

For Archie Manning, a cautionary moment occurred in 2014, when L.S.U. received a scholarship commitment from an eighth-grade quarterback from Texas named Zadock Dinkelmann. Like Arch Manning, Dinkelmann has two uncles who played in the N.F.L. — Ty Detmer, the 1990 Heisman Trophy winner from Brigham Young, and his brother Koy.

But it is impossible to know whether an eighth grader will bloom into a college star. For Arch Manning, his grandfather said, seriously contemplating early scholarship offers is “not part of the process right now.”

Dinkelmann entered a junior college, not L.S.U., after high school. His planned college path detoured several times because of head coach firings. He is now at Texas A&amp;M-Kingsville, hoping to take his first snap at the Division II school in March after its fall season was scrubbed by the pandemic.

Dinkelmann, 21, said he had enjoyed the recruiting process and offered Arch Manning the same advice that his father and uncles offered him: Be a high school athlete first. Take your time. Have fun visiting stadiums, meeting coaches. The right decision will become obvious.

“Don’t worry about them liking you; it’s about you liking them,” Dinkelmann said.

Since he was in junior high school, Arch Manning has worked at times with a quarterback coach named David Morris, who was Eli’s backup at Ole Miss. And when Arch’s uncles visit New Orleans or gather at the annual Manning Passing Academy in Thibodaux, La., they also offer advice. Each was a first overall pick in the N.F.L. draft and won two Super Bowls. Each has helped Arch with his footwork and drop-back technique and his polished release. Peyton has infused him with the importance of a commanding presence. But they are his uncles, not his coaches.

“They don’t try to be his mentor; they don’t grade his film,” Archie Manning said.

Arch’s closest bond with a legendary quarterback appears to be with his grandfather. It is hard to overstate what a folk hero Archie Manning was 50 years ago at Ole Miss, where the campus speed limit was set at 18 miles an hour to honor his jersey number. Or how he gamely endured a decade without a winning season on the New Orleans Saints, becoming a two-time Pro Bowler who got sacked 337 times while fans in the early 1980s began wearing bags on their heads and the Saints became the ‘Aints.

Arch calls his grandfather “Red,” though, at 71, Archie’s shock of red hair has thinned and gone gray. At age 20, Archie lost his own father to a self-inflicted gunshot wound, which perhaps helps to explain why he has been closely involved in his sons’ lives and the lives of his nine grandchildren. Each day, Arch has said, Archie sends a motivational text message. And on game days, grandfather types a simple affirmation: “Have fun.”

Archie attends most Newman games. During the pandemic, he has sometimes watched practice from his car. When access to gyms, school facilities and parks in New Orleans was restricted, Archie’s home in the Garden District became a place for Arch to work out.

“I think I’m the most like my grandfather the way I play,” Arch told an interviewer before the season began. “He could scramble around, stretch the field.”

Like his father and his uncles, Arch skipped Pop Warner football. (“I don’t think it’s necessary to put shoulder pads and helmets on a fourth grader or fifth grader,” Archie Manning said.) Instead, Arch played flag football until the sixth grade. It shows in the way he darts and changes direction and throws across his body, extending plays as his grandfather once did — running in beautiful escape at Ole Miss, running for his life with the Saints.

Arch has completed 72 percent of his passes and thrown for 19 touchdowns this season, while also leading Newman with eight rushing touchdowns.

“I see little sprinkles of everybody in the family, but he’s his own entity,” said Nelson Stewart, Newman’s football coach and a former teammate of Peyton’s and Cooper’s at the school. “I focus on the Arch, not the Manning.”

Still, some Manning traits, especially meticulousness, apply to all of them. Arch collaborates with his coach in scripting the opening plays for each game. When the pandemic limited school workouts for months, Stewart and Arch reviewed every play from his freshman season on video conference calls. Some lasted an hour and a half.

“At the end,” Stewart said, “he was almost completing my sentences.”





No.23 article:
‘The Crown’ Stokes an Uproar Over Fact vs. Entertainment

Dramatic liberties in the latest season of the Netflix series, covering the turbulent 1980s, are annoying Britons who wrote of that period, even among those who disparage the royals.

LONDON — On a Saturday night in July 1986, a band of bureaucrats in raincoats — one contingent from Buckingham Palace, the other from 10 Downing Street — converged on a newsstand in a train station to snap up The Sunday Times, fresh off the presses with a bombshell headline: “Queen dismayed by ‘uncaring’ Thatcher.”

It’s a dramatic flourish from the latest season of the “The Crown” — except, according to Andrew Neil, the paper’s editor at the time, it never happened. “Nonsense,” he said. “All first editions are delivered to both” the palace and the prime minister’s residence, making a late-night dash to buy the paper superfluous.

Mr. Neil, who published the famous scoop about tensions between Queen Elizabeth II and Margaret Thatcher, said the invented scene had allowed Peter Morgan, the creator of the hugely popular Netflix series about the British royal family, to depict 1980s London as a place of “squalor and vagabonds.”

Through four vivid seasons of “The Crown,” Mr. Morgan has never denied taking artistic license with the saga of the royals, playing out their private joys and sorrows against the pageant of 20th-century British history.

Yet “The Crown” is now colliding with the people who wrote the first draft of that history.

That has spun up a tempest in the British news media, even among those who ordinarily profess not to care much about the monarchy. Newspapers and television programs have been full of starchy commentary about how “The Crown” distorts history in its account of the turbulent decade in which Prince Charles married Lady Diana Spencer and Mrs. Thatcher wrought a free-market revolution in British society.

The objections range from the personal (the queen’s brittle, coldhearted treatment of her emotionally fragile daughter-in-law, which the critics claim is unfair) to the political (the show’s portrait of Thatcher-era Britain as a right-wing dystopia, in the grip of a zealous leader who dares to lecture her sovereign during their weekly audiences). Historians say that is utterly inconceivable.

“There has been such a reaction because Peter Morgan is now writing about events many of us lived through and some of us were at the center of,” said Mr. Neil, who edited The Sunday Times from 1983 to 1994.

Mr. Neil, who went on to be a broadcaster and publisher, is no reflexive defender of the royal family. Suspicious of Britain’s class system, he said he had sympathies for the republican movement in the 1980s. But he grew to admire how the queen modernized the monarchy after the upheaval of those years, and has been critical of renegade royals, like Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan.

The events involving Mr. Neil did happen: The queen became frustrated with Mrs. Thatcher when she refused to join the 48 other members of the British Commonwealth in backing sanctions against the apartheid regime in South Africa. This highly unusual clash spilled into public when The Sunday Times published its front-page report, attributed to palace officials, which said the royal family viewed Mrs. Thatcher as “uncaring, confrontational and socially divisive.”

But Mr. Neil disputed several elements of “The Crown’s” retelling, not least that Buckingham Palace made the queen’s press secretary, Michael Shea, the scapegoat for the incident. The show depicts his being fired for having leaked the story, even though it suggests that he did so at the queen’s behest. There is no evidence of this, Mr. Neil said, but it fits Mr. Morgan’s “left-wing agenda.”

“He gets to depict Thatcher as pretty much an ally of apartheid while the queen is the sort of person who junks loyal flunkies when things go wrong, even when they are just doing her bidding,” Mr. Neil said.

The brickbats are not just from the right.

Simon Jenkins, a columnist for the left-leaning Guardian, regards members of the royal family as artifacts of celebrity culture irrelevant to a country grappling with real-world challenges like Brexit. “They are practically defunct,” he said. “They are like anthropomorphized figures of a head of state.”

Yet he, too, is angered by how “The Crown” portrayed the events of the 1980s, when, as political editor of The Economist, he wrote about how Prince Charles had been drawn to the now-defunct Social Democratic Party. (He based the report on an off-the-record interview with the prince.) Mr. Jenkins said that because this season of “The Crown” deals with contemporary history and people who are still alive, its liberties with the facts are less a case of artistic license than an example of “fake news.”

“I find it offensive when people dump standards of veracity in relating contemporary history,” Mr. Jenkins said. “If I did that as a journalist, I’d be hauled up before the press council while these people get prizes.”

Like others, Mr. Jenkins pointed to an episode-by-episode analysis by Hugo Vickers, a royal historian, which found whoppers large and small in the series and has become Exhibit A for its prevarications.

Not everybody faults Mr. Morgan for filling in the missing pieces with conjured scenes, even if he jumbles the facts in the process. (Mrs. Thatcher’s son, Mark, was not lost in the desert during the Paris-Dakar auto rally just as his mother was preparing to go to war with Argentina over the Falkland Islands; hostilities broke out a few months after he was found.)

Charles Moore, a former editor of The Daily Telegraph who wrote a three-volume biography of Mrs. Thatcher, praised Gillian Anderson’s performance as the prime minister, putting it on a par with Meryl Streep’s Oscar-winning turn in the 2011 film “The Iron Lady.” Even a much-criticized episode in which a snobbish queen plays host to a fish-out-of-water prime minister and her husband, Denis, at Balmoral Castle in Scotland, struck him as having “the ring of truth,” despite some embellishments.

“The Crown,” Mr. Moore said, is trying to have it both ways, selling itself to audiences as a true story while clearing out the extraneous debris of facts that would gum up its dramatic narrative. “There is this thing called the tyranny of fact,” he said. “But as we get to modern times, it gets harder to avoid.”

Mr. Morgan declined to respond to the criticisms, though he told The New York Times this month that he was mindful that this season would be held to closer scrutiny. The producers mined the copious news reports of the period, as well as biographies of Charles and Diana, which contained firsthand accounts of their misbegotten union.

What is depicted in the family’s private moments, however, is “an act of creative imagination,” Mr. Morgan has said.

Behind the frustration with “The Crown” is a recognition that, right or wrong, its version of the royal family is likely to serve as the go-to narrative for a generation of viewers, particularly young ones, who do not remember the 1980s, let alone the more distant events covered in earlier seasons.

“They’ll watch it and think this is the way it was,” said Dickie Arbiter, who served as a press secretary to the queen from 1988 to 2000. He took issue with parts of the plot, including a scene in which aides to Charles question Diana about whether she is mentally stable enough to travel alone to New York City.

“I was actually at that meeting,” Mr. Arbiter said. “No courtier would ever say that in a million years.”

The biggest problem, said Penny Junor, who has written biographies of Charles, Diana and Mrs. Thatcher, is that “The Crown” is a prodigiously effective piece of entertainment. That, she says, poses a particular threat to Charles, who arguably comes off worst in the series and who is likely to ascend the throne before memories of his grim, hunched portrayal have completely faded.

“It is wonderful television,” Ms. Junor said. “It is beautifully acted — the mannerisms are perfect. But it is fiction, and it is very destructive.”





No.24 article:
Why Cities Are Finally Showing Skateboarders Some Respect

New York and Jersey City opened or upgraded several skate parks just as the pandemic put a premium on outdoor space.

The first time Xavier Harris, 21, visited the new skate park in Jersey City, N.J., it was July, and the course was still being built. So he scaled a temporary fence to get inside. The second time, Mr. Harris, who started skateboarding when he was 9, crawled under a chain-link fence.

Just after it officially opened in August, he rode his skateboard through the open gate, rolled down a ramp, maintained his momentum and finished by bounding over a blue recycling can.

“I just want to flow around,” said Mr. Harris, a garbage collector from East Orange, N.J.

From New Jersey across the Hudson River to New York, skateboarders are now enjoying many more places to flow at a time when outdoor space has become more coveted with the coronavirus resurging.

In New York, as the city slowly reopened, officials unveiled two new parks in Brooklyn and two others, one each in Manhattan and Queens, that were given major upgrades.

At Rockaway Beach Skate Park, which sits along the Queens waterfront, skateboarders jumped down steps, rode railings and sped along concrete banks across the park’s 16,000 square feet.

“We came out here surfing, saw them working on it and were like, ‘Is it open yet, is it open yet?’ every time,” said Keir Austen-Brown, an avid skateboarder like his son, Ollie, 11. “When we saw it open, we were here the next day.”

With skateboarding now an Olympic event and the number of skate parks on the rise, a sport long seen as renegade has become decidedly mainstream. Skateboarders who had to find out-of-the-way spaces, sometimes in desolate neighborhoods or in spots where they risked being chased away by the police, to hone their skills are finding skate parks part of the conversation when cities reimagine their urban landscapes.

“If you’re really going to be a world-class city and you’re going to invest in recreation, you need to think beyond traditional sports,” Steven Fulop, Jersey City’s mayor, said. “Thus, we’ve invested in our first skate park and we’re probably going to be doing more.”

Martin Maher, the Brooklyn commissioner for New York City’s parks department, knew the case against skate parks. “Twenty years ago, there was this fear that ‘Oh, my God, it’s going to be skaters, it’s going to be fights, it’s going to be noise!’” he said.

In New York, skateboarders who were largely relegated to makeshift courses underneath bridges now have 39 skate parks run by the department where they can test their daredevil moves.

“I can sit for hours and you’re amazed at skaters from like 30 cultural backgrounds playing in the space the size of a basketball court in total harmony,” Mr. Maher said. “It’s something to watch.”

For Josh Goldberg, 47, and his son Pablo, 13, trips to some of the new skate parks were their escape from being cooped up in their Brooklyn home during the lockdown. Mr. Goldberg led his son, a dedicated skater who aspires to work in the growing industry, down some steps at Riverside Park in Manhattan, where they slipped through a fence to catch a glimpse of the renovated skate park there before it opened. They noticed that the wood ramps had been replaced by smooth concrete.

They also sneaked a peek at a skate park being built in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and on a recent Saturday they were enjoying the new course in Queens with friends.

“Open air, constant movement, kind of perfect,” Mr. Goldberg said. “Honestly, this summer, I’ve seen more of New York than I’ve probably ever seen.”

In New Jersey, the debut of Jersey City’s inaugural skate park was the culmination of years of struggle by local skateboarders, who had grown accustomed to working on their boards on the steps of a post office or in abandoned lots.

One of the more popular spots was nicknamed the “Junk Spot,” a remote area next to the New Jersey Turnpike. But as Jersey City has gentrified, developers have claimed many of these lots, squeezing out skateboarders.

The skaters tried to create their own dedicated space, but funding was a challenge. City officials eventually took up their cause, and with the help of private grants the skate park project, which took seven years and nearly $900,000 to complete, took shape at the end of an industrial block not far from the Liberty State Park.

Once open, a sign in all-capital letters warned: SKATING IS AT YOUR OWN RISK, and an eclectic crowd rolled in, from 4-year-olds learning to transfer their weight on skateboards to 40-somethings looking to shed pounds.

Inevitably, there were collisions and spills.

“You might get hurt, but I never heard about anybody dying in skating,” said Federman Acosta, 26, a frequent skateboarder from Edison, N.J., who welcomed the growth of skate parks after years of dodging cars while practicing on the street.

“I have,” Jeremy Picado interjected.

In 2005, Mr. Picado, 38, who lives in Plainfield, N.J., suffered a concussion after a fall, was hospitalized for a week, endured memory loss and quit skating. But he started again in 2013, and helped build the Jersey City skate park as a construction worker. He now teaches children to skateboard on weekends.

“It’s an addiction to the adrenaline,” he said.

Mr. Harris said he had always found calmness and camaraderie in the skateboarding scene. His father gave him a skateboard when he was 9, worried that he was depressed and spending too much time inside after he and his wife separated.

After landing a twist at the Jersey City park, he looked up after hearing a buzzing sound above.

“Is that a drone?” he said.

In fact, it was. It turned out that Derek McRae, a local rapper who goes by Mr. Cashed Out, was using the industrial tableau surrounding the skateboarders as backdrop for music video.

The drone recorded him standing in the middle of the concrete bowl as he rhymed a remix of Jack Harlow’s “Whats Poppin” with skateboarders whirling around him.

“It’s a whole different vibe,” Mr. McRae, 22, said. “Lighting. Bright colors. Dope scene.”

The park was illuminated after sunset, but at 9 p.m. a police S.U.V. nearby flashed its lights to signal closing time.

“Basically, they monitor us,” said Bebe Freeman, 20, a student at Rutgers University, who learned to skateboard from her mother. “A little weird.”

With skateboarding becoming more popular, New York is planning to build two more skate parks in Brooklyn.

“We’re undoubtedly in a boom phase,” said Ian Clarke, founder of the N.Y.C. Skateboard Coalition. “We know historically skateboarding has ebbed and flowed, and we won’t be surprised if we see that again. But it’s not going away.”

On a recent chilly Sunday at Riverside Park, Tyler Harl, 34, wore a brown hoodie as he descended the terraced landscape. Raised in Arizona, he started skateboarding when he was in the third grade. He has shuttled between Arizona and New York for the past decade and enjoys the tranquillity of early-morning skateboarding by the Hudson River.

Most of the park was open except for the final piece — an 11-foot-deep concrete bowl.

Mr. Harl picked up a broom and pushed fallen leaves away to clear his path.

“Now that acorns are done falling, it’s a lot easier to skate around,” he said.





No.25 article:
Turkey Jails Hundreds for Life Over 2016 Coup Attempt

Those accused of being ringleaders were among the many sentenced in one of the most important mass trials relating to the plot.

ISTANBUL — A Turkish court sentenced the accused ringleaders and hundreds of others suspected of involvement in the failed 2016 coup to multiple life terms on Thursday, at the culmination of one of the most important mass trials in the plot to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

The trial of 475 defendants focused on a group of senior military officers and civilians who set up headquarters at the Akinci air base outside the capital, Ankara, on the night of the coup and ordered warplanes, helicopters and army units to attack and seize key targets. Among the 337 defendants who received multiple life sentences were members of a small core accused of masterminding the coup attempt.

The sentences serve as a capstone to four years of prosecutions in Turkey since the attempted coup, pinning responsibility on those accused as the main perpetrators of a violent attempt at seizing power that was widely rejected by the public. But the government’s sweeping repression of dissent in the aftermath has damaged democracy and rule of law in the country.

During two years of martial law in the aftermath of the coup, the authorities detained some 100,000 people and purged 150,000 public servants from their jobs. The detained included political opponents of the government, Kurdish activists and human rights defenders, among others.

That led many to accuse the government of using the coup as an excuse to crack down more broadly on dissent.

The courts have now concluded almost all of the 289 trials related to the coup attempt and have convicted more than 4,000 people.

Legal professionals have criticized the use of mass trials against thousands accused of even vague involvement in the coup, including convictions handed down to army cadets and others who were ordered out on to the streets that night with little knowledge of what was going on. But supporters of the process point out that it is the first time in a history of military coups that Turkey has conducted extended legal proceedings into what happened.

The coup failed when hundreds of thousands of civilians blocked the streets and units loyal to the government took control. More than 250 people died, many of them police officers and civilians who came under attack from the rogue army units.

Four civilians, Kemal Batmaz, Hakan Cicek, Harun Binis and Nurettin Oruc, were found guilty of masterminding the coup from Akinci base that night. They are accused of following the orders of Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based Islamic preacher who has become Mr. Erdogan’s bitter rival.

Mr. Gulen, who was in the United States at the time of the coup, and another civilian, Adil Oksuz, who was detained outside the Akinci air base on the morning after the coup but later released, were also indicted in the case. But they were among six defendants whose cases were later separated because they remain at large.

Of the most prominent military commanders sentenced was Brig. Gen. Bekir Ercan Van, commander of the Incirlik air base where U.S. forces are also stationed and from where they fly missions in Iraq and Syria.

The general gave orders for tanker aircraft to supply fuel to Turkish F-16 jets that were conducting bombing raids over Ankara during the coup attempt, according to at least one pilot who was among the defendants.

After the coup collapsed, General Van approached his American counterparts at Incirlik and requested asylum but was refused. 

At least 10 pilots who flew over Ankara and bombed locations in the capital, including the Parliament and two police headquarters, were sentenced to multiple counts of life imprisonment. Among the evidence that led to their conviction were audiotapes of the pilots’ conversations with the control tower describing their actions.

Lt. Col. Hakan Karakus, accused of leading the F-16 pilots, and two air force captains, accused of delivering bombing orders to the pilots, also received 79 life sentences each.

Colonel Karakus is the son-in-law of Gen. Akin Ozturk, commander of Turkish Air Force at the time of the coup attempt. General Ozturk was sentenced to multiple life terms in 2019 for his role as a key ringleader in the failed coup.

The trial focused on responsibility for 77 of the more than 250 people who died in the attempted coup. Nineteen of those sentenced received 79 counts of life without parole, one for each of those 77 killed and two more for the charges of trying to subvert the Constitution and assassinate the president.

The published verdict said 291 defendants received life sentences without parole and 46 were sentenced to life with the possibility of parole. The court acquitted 80 defendants and the remainder received lesser sentences.

Most of the defendants in the trial denied they had participated in the coup attempt. They claimed they were either following orders or that the entire narrative of a coup attempt was a construct of the Erdogan government, a claim that was also made by Mr. Gulen.

Mr. Gulen and his supporters in the United States have repeatedly denied any involvement in the coup.

But evidence produced at the Akinci base trial was considered some of the most important of all the prosecutions.

Videotape from security cameras at the Akinci air base confirmed the presence of some of the defendants, including some walking the corridors in fatigues and carrying weapons. Pilots in audiotaped conversations described their intention of delivering a blow to the government, reinforcing the prosecution’s case.

Some of the lower-ranked officers testified about the actions of their superiors. The police also detained two of the civilian defendants, Mr. Batmaz and Mr. Binis, near the base on the morning after the coup attempt and dismissed their explanation that they were out looking at real estate.

Relatives of defendants and lawyers representing them have complained of harassment and other obstacles to their work. Defendants complained of torture and mistreatment in the first days after their arrest.

But defendants were allowed to deliver their own statements and reply to accusations during the trial, sometimes taking the stand for hours, even days, to read their testimony. Each defendant was also allowed to give final remarks as were their lawyers.

Mehmet Alagoz, who heads the July 15 Coup Trials Platform, a group founded by lawyers representing many of the victims killed and injured during the coup attempt, said that some of the defendants had been pushing for a mistrial or to expose illegal proceedings so they could take a claim to the European Court of Human Rights.

“The court exerted extraordinary efforts to make this a fair trial both in the court process and at the level of prosecution because the defendants from the beginning were shaping their defense for the European Court,” he said in a telephone interview.

“There were 475 defendants, hundreds of witnesses,” he added. “The court gave room for each one for their defense, regardless of the time. The trial lasted for three and a half years.”

During the exhaustive hearings, some defendants cursed the Gulen movement, some criticized their superiors for leading them into trouble, but some of the ringleaders remained steadfast in their denials of even the existence of a coup plot and in their opposition to Mr. Erdogan’s government.

“There were defendants even rejecting sight of themselves in the videotapes,” Mr. Alagoz said. Some sent a coded message of support for Mr. Gulen at the end, he added.

“Even in their final remarks, they dared threaten the court,” he said.





No.26 article:
2nd Coronavirus Wave Hits Buffalo Area ‘With a Vengeance’

The positive test rate in Erie County has remained above 5 percent for almost two weeks.

BUFFALO, N.Y. — Over the past month, the number of coronavirus cases has increased tenfold in the upstate city of Buffalo and its surrounding suburbs. Hospitalizations already have surpassed the levels seen in the spring. And the Covid-19 hotline for Erie County, where Buffalo is situated, is getting “annihilated,” the health commissioner said, with 1,500 calls in one 24-hour period this week.

“The second wave is here, and it is here with a vengeance,” Mark Poloncarz, the county executive, said at a news conference, urging residents to take the surge seriously.

Western New York, a bustling five-county region of some 1.4 million people along the Canadian border and the Great Lakes, has emerged as the biggest trouble spot of the state’s second coronavirus wave. If New York City was the hot spot of the spring, then this area seems to presently have that distinction.

Normally known for its neighborliness, its Buffalo Bills football team and its namesake spicy chicken wings, the region now gets regular criticism from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo for its average positive test rate, which has remained around 5 percent for two weeks.

By the numbers alone, the Buffalo area already meets the benchmarks for the harshest restrictions available to the state — the closing of nonessential businesses and the banning of public gatherings — yet officials have held off.

But as the cases continue to rise, that designation seems almost inevitable. 

“We’re watching the numbers,” Mr. Cuomo said on Wednesday. “We’re going to watch through this Thanksgiving season.”

The rise in Erie County has been a more extreme version of what is happening statewide, and more so resembles the uptick in other regions of the country. Since mid-October, the number of cases in the county has gone from 322 per week to 3,449 per week. Hospitalizations have risen from 84 on Nov. 10 to 264 on Nov. 23. While hospitals have sufficient beds for now, county officials said, staff is being stretched thin.

The St. Joseph Campus Hospital, part of the region’s Catholic Health hospital system, has almost returned to being a coronavirus-only hospital as it was in the spring, with its emergency department temporarily closed.

Intensive care admissions are increasing at a slower rate, because of improvements in care, though 40 people have already died of the virus in November, bringing the total coronavirus fatalities in the county to 788 people.

In an encouraging sign, Erie County’s infection rate has leveled off at around 7 percent in the last few days, indicating that some restrictions are having an effect. As the message has gotten through, there are now lines to get coronavirus testing, and masking in public places is generally good, residents said, although there has been some pushback regarding current virus restrictions.

“I do believe the vast majority of people in my community are taking it seriously, whether they live in the city of Buffalo or they’re in a rural community,” Mr. Poloncarz, a Democrat, said in an interview. “But there are some folks who are not. And unfortunately, those individuals put at risk the entire community for further shutdowns.”

How Western New York got here is not clear cut. Local epidemiologists and officials say that there was no large outbreak that triggered this second wave. Multigenerational households in Buffalo’s poorer neighborhoods, which suffered disproportionately early in the spring — when more than 500 people died in the county — have not been the hardest hit this time.

Rather, said Mr. Poloncarz, it seems that the November surge started in the wealthier, more conservative suburbs, where people appeared to be not taking enough precautions in private gatherings, bars or restaurants. The spike also began in the days after Halloween, leading some epidemiologists to believe that parties played a part.

But transmission at this point is so widespread in the county that irresponsible behavior is not required to get sick, said Dr. Thomas A. Russo, the chief of infectious disease at the Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at the University at Buffalo. In what he calls the “innocent bystander effect,” many infections now are being spread among family members in private homes, brought in by people who are asymptomatic.

Coupled with the small, but significant, minority resisting masking and other restrictions, the virus is finding enough hosts to fuel the ongoing community transmission, he said. Even 20 percent of people not complying is enough, he added.

“I think people here certainly know that we have to regroup, and we have probably been doing better in the last week or so,” Dr. Russo said. Still, he was worried. “Whatever ground we might have gained, I’m nervous we will lose it over Thanksgiving.”

In the past few weeks, Mr. Cuomo designated most of Erie County a yellow zone, the lowest level of his tiered, color-coded restriction system that limited gatherings and indoor dining, and then as an orange zone, the midlevel categorization that triggered the mandatory closure of personal care businesses like salons and gyms, as well as indoor dining. Schools are also closed for in-person attendance, but can reopen with strict testing protocols.

These restrictions have led to some anger, particularly from the more politically conservative suburbs around the city of Buffalo. A video recorded on Friday showing health inspectors and sheriff’s deputies attempting to stop an illegal gathering inside a gym in Orchard Park has been viewed nearly three million times. It gained national attention after Donald J. Trump Jr. retweeted it and said it was an example of “the tyranny from Democrat politicians.”

On Monday, the gym owner led an evening protest, attracting about 150 people. Across the street from Buffalo Bills Stadium, the protest had the jubilant air of the kind of tailgate parties normally held there that have been canceled this year because of coronavirus restrictions. Demonstrators waved signs at passing traffic on Southwestern Boulevard insulting Mr. Cuomo and calling on the area to reopen for the sake of peoples’ livelihoods.

“We’re here to fight for everybody,” said the gym owner, Robby Dinero, who was fined $15,000 for the gym gathering, as demonstrators in the background shook tambourines and gave speeches from the bed of a pickup truck. He said he planned more protests for as long as the restrictions remain in place.

But Rita Los, a retired attorney from Hamburg, where there were 236 cases last week, said she supports increased restrictions in part because she has noticed people getting “too comfortable” with one another and inviting people to their homes.

“Buffalo is ‘The City of Good Neighbors,’” she said, referring to one of the community’s nicknames. “And the problem with Buffalo is nobody thinks their neighbor will make them sick.”

Elsewhere, families are struggling and expressing frustration with the micro-cluster restrictions, even if they are not attending public protests. Laura Hodges, a physical therapist in the suburb of Amherst, was furloughed in the spring, and has yet to return to permanent, full-time work.

“I’ve applied for a bazillion jobs,” Ms. Hodges said. “And now this is just causing more uncertainty.” She said her family has had to use credit cards to pay off some bills, a situation that can’t be sustained indefinitely.

Kellie Klos, co-owner of Clayton’s Toy Store, a 105-year-old shop on Main Street in Williamsville, said she at least was relieved that Mr. Cuomo did not designate the area a red zone, the highest level of restrictions, on Wednesday.

“We do 60 percent of our business between Thanksgiving and Christmas,” she said. “If we had gone into a red zone now, that could have been permanently detrimental to this business, which would break my heart.” 

“At least now we know we get another weekend,” she added.

Policymakers have been at a crossroads. For days, Erie County has technically met the standards for the governor’s red zone, which requires a rolling seven-day average positivity rate of 4 percent for 10 days. Some suburbs, including Lancaster and Hamburg, have reached a 9 percent positivity rate, among the highest in the state.

On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo said that he was going to tweak the formula used to designate restriction zones to put more of an emphasis on hospital capacity, and that he would revisit the issue after Thanksgiving.

As the number of cases in Erie County ballooned from 350 a week in mid-October to 500 a day, contact tracers were swamped. Dr. Gale Burstein, the health commissioner, announced a triage system on Monday. Now, everyone tested by the county will get their results within 24 hours after the county receives them, but tracers will call back a day or two later to do the full interview and find out who else they should notify.

Third-party testing sites, like urgent care facilities and pharmacies, often send their coronavirus tests to labs, and results are sometimes not available for five to seven days. So contact tracing for those cases, especially as the numbers climb, can be futile.

“We can only control the testing the county does,” Mr. Poloncarz said. “It is a problem. We’re doing our best.”





No.27 article:
The Rotting of the Republican Mind

When one party becomes detached from reality.

In a recent Monmouth University survey, 77 percent of Trump backers said Joe Biden had won the presidential election because of fraud. Many of these same people think climate change is not real. Many of these same people believe they don’t need to listen to scientific experts on how to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.

We live in a country in epistemological crisis, in which much of the Republican Party has become detached from reality. Moreover, this is not just an American problem. All around the world, rising right-wing populist parties are floating on oceans of misinformation and falsehood. What is going on?

Many people point to the internet — the way it funnels people into information silos, the way it abets the spread of misinformation. I mostly reject this view. Why would the internet have corrupted Republicans so much more than Democrats, the global right more than the global left?

My analysis begins with a remarkable essay that Jonathan Rauch wrote for National Affairs in 2018 called “The Constitution of Knowledge.” Rauch pointed out that every society has an epistemic regime, a marketplace of ideas where people collectively hammer out what’s real. In democratic, nontheocratic societies, this regime is a decentralized ecosystem of academics, clergy members, teachers, journalists and others who disagree about a lot but agree on a shared system of rules for weighing evidence and building knowledge.

This ecosystem, Rauch wrote, operates as a funnel. It allows a wide volume of ideas to get floated, but only a narrow group of ideas survive collective scrutiny. “We let alt-truth talk,” Rauch said, “but we don’t let it write textbooks, receive tenure, bypass peer review, set the research agenda, dominate the front pages, give expert testimony or dictate the flow of public dollars.”

Over the past decades the information age has created a lot more people who make their living working with ideas, who are professional members of this epistemic process. The information economy has increasingly rewarded them with money and status. It has increasingly concentrated them in ever more prosperous metro areas.

While these cities have been prospering, places where fewer people have college degrees have been spiraling down: flatter incomes, decimated families, dissolved communities. In 1972, people without college degrees were nearly as happy as those with college degrees. Now those without a degree are far more unhappy about their lives.

People need a secure order to feel safe. Deprived of that, people legitimately feel cynicism and distrust, alienation and anomie. This precarity has created, in nation after nation, intense populist backlashes against the highly educated folks who have migrated to the cities and accrued significant economic, cultural and political power. Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center calls this the “Density Divide.” It is a bitter cultural and political cold war.

In the fervor of this enmity, millions of people have come to detest those who populate the epistemic regime, who are so distant, who appear to have it so easy, who have such different values, who can be so condescending. Millions not only distrust everything the “fake news” people say, but also the so-called rules they use to say them.

People in this precarious state are going to demand stories that will both explain their distrust back to them and also enclose them within a safe community of believers. The evangelists of distrust, from Donald Trump to Alex Jones to the followers of QAnon, rose up to give them those stories and provide that community. Paradoxically, conspiracy theories have become the most effective community bonding mechanisms of the 21st century.

For those awash in anxiety and alienation, who feel that everything is spinning out of control, conspiracy theories are extremely effective emotional tools. For those in low status groups, they provide a sense of superiority: I possess important information most people do not have. For those who feel powerless, they provide agency: I have the power to reject “experts” and expose hidden cabals. As Cass Sunstein of Harvard Law School points out, they provide liberation: If I imagine my foes are completely malevolent, then I can use any tactic I want.

Under Trump, the Republican identity is defined not by a set of policy beliefs but by a paranoid mind-set. He and his media allies simply ignore the rules of the epistemic regime and have set up a rival trolling regime. The internet is an ideal medium for untested information to get around traditional gatekeepers, but it is an accelerant of the paranoia, not its source. Distrust and precarity, caused by economic, cultural and spiritual threat, are the source.

What to do? You can’t argue people out of paranoia. If you try to point out factual errors, you only entrench false belief. The only solution is to reduce the distrust and anxiety that is the seedbed of this thinking. That can only be done first by contact, reducing the social chasm between the members of the epistemic regime and those who feel so alienated from it. And second, it can be done by policy, by making life more secure for those without a college degree.

Rebuilding trust is, obviously, the work of a generation.





No.28 article:
When the White House Was Full of Claws, Scales, Stripes and Tails

The long tradition of presidential pets is set to resume this January with two German shepherds belonging to President-elect Joe Biden. Their predecessors weren’t always cats and dogs.

Residents of the White House have had fur and feathers, claws and hooves, scales, stripes and prehensile tails. Some were found on the property, many came with the new tenants and others were delivered by foreign leaders. But for most of modern U.S. history, the president has had a pet.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is expected to resume that tradition in January with his two German shepherds, Champ and Major, after President Trump’s term ends as the first in decades without any pets living full-time at the residence.

More often than not, presidential pets have been dogs and cats. But many less traditional pets have also lived at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, their quantity and variety depending on each administration, said Matthew Costello, a senior historian for the White House Historical Association.

“If you’re talking about which White House was quite literally a zoo, it was probably Theodore Roosevelt’s White House,” Mr. Costello said. “Between the six children that he brought with him to the White House and the assortment of pets — the Roosevelts, they just loved animals.”

Pets at the White House have reflected the occupants’ personalities, he said, and the animals sometimes played a prominent role in an administration’s image. “It helps humanize the president a little bit more,” Mr. Costello said. “It’s something that’s relatable to most people. Most people have a pet or have had a pet at some point in their life.”

Although the list of White House pets is lengthy, according to the Presidential Pet Museum, an organization founded to preserve information and artifacts related to presidential pets, the history is also littered with unverified tales and missing details. Still, records clearly show many strange pets.

Theodore Roosevelt, who traveled abroad, hiked at home and led conservation efforts as president from 1901 to 1909, kept a lengthy list of animals at the White House. In his family’s care were horses, dogs, a Hyacinth macaw parrot, kangaroo rats, five guinea pigs and a one-legged rooster, according to the Presidential Pet Museum. There was also a short-tempered badger named Josiah and a green garter snake named Emily Spinach.

Republican supporters in West Virginia also gave Mr. Roosevelt a bear, which his children named Jonathan Edwards after an ancestor of the first lady, Edith Roosevelt. The president also received exotic animals as gifts from foreign leaders. In 1904, King Menelik of Abyssinia gave Mr. Roosevelt a lion cub named Joe and a hyena named Bill that “laughs nearly all the time,” The New York Times reported that year.

(President Dwight Eisenhower also received an unusual gift in 1959, when Prime Minister Fulbert Youlou of the Republic of Congo gave him a baby elephant named Dzimbo. The president, later trying to feed the elephant, compared it to his grandchildren: “He doesn’t like carrots.” Dzimbo eventually moved to the Washington Zoo.)

In an effort to keep costs low and to conserve on human resources during World War I, a flock of sheep were brought to the White House to keep the grass neat, according to the Woodrow Wilson Presidential Library and Museum. The flock arrived at the White House in 1918 from Maryland and grazed on the property for at least two years. At some point, the flock was sheared and two pounds of wool was given to each state, where it was auctioned off and ended up raising about $52,000 for the Red Cross.

President Calvin Coolidge and Grace Coolidge, the first lady while he was in office, from 1923 to 1929, kept a menagerie at the White House, including several dogs, cats, birds, a goose and a donkey. But it was the raccoon, Rebecca, that was among the family’s most famous and beloved pets.

In November 1926, the family received the raccoon from Mississippi to be served for Thanksgiving dinner. But finding the raccoon to be friendly, the family changed her fate, the museum said. Over the years, Mr. Coolidge grew close to Rebecca and sometimes walked her around the White House grounds on a leash. Mr. Coolidge even gave Rebecca an embroidered collar with the title “White House Raccoon,” according to the White House Historical Association.

Although Rebecca had taken a place in the spotlight, even attracting attention at the annual Easter Egg Roll in 1927, she sometimes caused problems. In 1927, she fled the Coolidge residence in South Dakota, running away from “her attendants in the dead of night” and climbing a tall tree, “which she declines to descend in spite of all entreaties,” The Times reported.  She was eventually donated to the Rock Creek Zoo.

President Herbert Hoover had several dogs during his tenure at the White House, from 1929 to 1933, but few appeared to attract as much attention as Billy, a wild opossum the family adopted after it strayed onto the property, according to the Herbert Hoover Presidential Library and Museum.

The family kept the opossum in a pen built for the Coolidge family’s raccoon, Rebecca. In 1929, Billy became the subject of news coverage after Mr. Hoover lent him out to a nearby high school that was upset after their live mascot, also an opossum, had disappeared, according to the Library of Congress. Similarly, before Mr. Hoover moved into the White House, President Benjamin Harrison had two opossums during his tenure, from 1889 to 1893, which he named Mr. Reciprocity and Mr. Protection after the Republican platform at the time.

During the Kennedy administration, when the scions of wealthy families lived in the White House, some of the most common pets were horses and ponies. “Jacqueline Kennedy had grown up riding horses,” Mr. Costello said. “She had been interested in equestrianism her entire life.”

One of the more well-known horses belonging to the family was Sardar, a gift from the president of Pakistan in 1962, according to the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. The president’s daughter, Caroline Kennedy, had a pony, Macaroni, who was photographed often, and she and her brother had parakeets named Bluebell and Maybelle. Macaroni and Tex, a pony given to Caroline by Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1961, would stay at a nearby Kennedy property but was often on the White House grounds, Mr. Costello said. A third pony, Leprechaun, was given to the family by Irish leaders.





No.29 article:
Quarantine May Negatively Affect Kids’ Immune Systems

Keeping children masked and separated is necessary. It could also undermine their bodies’ ability to learn how to fight pathogens.

During the Covid-19 pandemic, the world is unwittingly conducting what amounts to the largest immunological experiment in history on our own children. We have been keeping children inside, relentlessly sanitizing their living spaces and their hands and largely isolating them. In doing so, we have prevented large numbers of them from becoming infected or transmitting the virus. But in the course of social distancing to mitigate the spread, we may also be unintentionally inhibiting the proper development of children’s immune systems.

Most children are born with a functioning immune system with the capacity to respond to diverse types of foreign substances, called antigens, encountered through exposure to microorganisms, food and the environment. The eradication of harmful pathogens, establishment of protective immunity and proper immune regulation depends on the immune cells known as T lymphocytes. With each new infection, pathogen-specific T cells multiply and orchestrate the clearance of the infectious organism from the body, after which some persist as memory T cells with enhanced immune functions.

Over time, children develop increasing numbers and types of memory T cells, which remain throughout the body as a record of past exposures and stand ready to provide lifelong protection. For other antigen exposures that are not infectious or dangerous, a type of healthy stalemate can result, called immune tolerance. Immunological memory and tolerance learned during childhood serves as the basis for immunity and health throughout adulthood.

Memory T cells begin to form during the first years of life and accumulate during childhood. However, for memory T cells to become functionally mature, multiple exposures may be necessary, particularly for cells residing in tissues such as the lung and intestines, where we encounter numerous pathogens. These exposures typically and naturally occur during the everyday experiences of childhood — such as interactions with friends, teachers, trips to the playground, sports — all of which have been curtailed or shut down entirely during efforts to mitigate viral spread. As a result, we are altering the frequency, breadth and degree of exposures that are crucial for immune memory development.

While the immune system is influenced by multiple factors, including genetics and everyday exposures to family members and pets, the long term effects of removing the social system that brings children in contact with other people, places and things remains uncharted territory. However, there is now substantial evidence that antigen exposure during the formative period of childhood is important not only for protection but also for reducing the incidence of allergies, asthma and inflammatory diseases. A well-known theory, called the “hygiene hypothesis,” proposes that the increased incidence of allergies and other immune disorders involving inappropriate immune reactions across industrialized societies is a result of the move away from agrarian society toward a highly sanitized urban setting.

Failing to train our immune systems properly can have serious consequences. When laboratory mice raised in nearly sterile conditions were housed together in the same cage with pet mice raised in standard conditions, some of the laboratory mice succumbed to pathogens that the pet mice were able to fight off. Additional studies of the microbiome — the bacteria that normally inhabit our intestines and other sites — have shown that mice raised in germ-free conditions or in the presence of antibiotics had reduced and altered immune responses to many types of pathogens. These studies suggest that for establishing a healthy immune system, the more diverse and frequent the encounters with antigens, the better.

Clinical trials have already demonstrated the effect of antigen exposure or avoidance in early childhood on subsequent immune responses. Introduction of peanuts to infants resulted in reduced incidence of peanut allergy, while avoidance had the opposite effect of promoting unwanted, severe allergic immune responses to peanuts. These findings further suggest that exposure during the formative years is critical for developing an immune system that responds appropriately to pathogens while tolerating harmless antigens.

What can be done to promote children’s health during this relentless pandemic? To allow them to be exposed to people and the environment, while not putting their teachers, family members or caregivers at risk? Embracing proven measures such as mask wearing to control viral spread will alleviate the need for further restrictions and have disproportionate benefits for our children. It is heartening that the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 vaccine trials show great promise. The sooner that teachers and caregivers can be vaccinated, the sooner children can return to school and re-establish their normal routines.

That’s because the longer we need to socially distance our children in the midst of uncontrolled viral spread, the greater the possibility that their immune systems will miss learning important immunological lessons (what’s harmful, what’s not) that we usually acquire during childhood.

There is already well-justified concern about the impact of prolonged virtual learning on social and intellectual development, especially for elementary and middle-school-age children. The sooner we can safely restore the normal experiences of childhood, interacting with other children and — paradoxically — with pathogens and diverse microorganisms, the better we can ensure their ability to thrive as adults in this changing world.





No.30 article:
A Soaring Monument to Beauty in China Is Stirring Passions. Mostly Anger.

As China fights to end extreme poverty while also recovering from the economic damage of the coronavirus, the supposed wisdom of building huge statues in poorer areas to grow tourism is coming under harsh scrutiny.

JIANHE, China — Yang Asha smiled serenely down at the craggy emerald landscape, her hand outstretched in welcome. She appeared unmoved by the fierce condemnation her presence has ignited in China — she is, after all, made of gleaming stainless steel and bigger than the Statue of Liberty.

To officials in her corner of China, the statue of Yang Asha, a goddess of beauty, serves as a tribute to the rich culture of the local people and, they hope, a big draw for sightseers and their money. To many others in China, she is another white elephant in a country full of expensive monuments, gaudy tourist traps and wasteful vanity projects that draw money away from real problems.

Those critics point to the statue of Guan Yu, a general from antiquity, in the city of Jingzhou, where he also towers higher than the Statue of Liberty and wields an enormous polearm called the Green Dragon Crescent Blade.

They point to the Jingxingu Hotel, a 24-story wooden building with lots of empty balconies and open spaces but few actual rooms — and it has not accepted guests beyond a few tourists who come to gawk.

They point to the construction of a full-size, $150 million replica of the Titanic in a reservoir deep in China’s interior, 1,200 miles from the ocean.

These projects have always endured some criticism in China. But these days the harsh words resonate. Xi Jinping, the country’s top leader, has vowed to eradicate extreme poverty, and some of these projects are in the country’s most impoverished places.

China is also still emerging from the economic devastation of the coronavirus pandemic early this year. With many people struggling to get their lives back in order, the projects seem like little more than costly burdens on a country where many local and provincial governments are already deeply in debt.

Singling out the $38 million Jingxingu Hotel and the $224 million Guan Yu project, which also included an elaborate base and surrounding park, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development ordered on Sept. 29 that communities may not “blindly build large-scale sculptures that are divorced from reality and the masses.”

Chinese government officials have long prized big projects. China now has four-fifths of the world’s 100 tallest bridges, more miles of ultramodern expressways than the American interstate highway system and a bullet-train network long enough to span the continental United States seven times. Those projects have employed millions of people and helped fuel the country’s breakneck growth.

But local officials borrowed heavily to fund those projects. Estimates put the amount of local debt as high as $6 trillion, raising fears of financial bombs lurking in the ledgers of far corners of the country.

Beijing has doubled down on further investment spending this year in an initially successful bid to shake off an economic hangover from the outbreak of coronavirus in China last winter.

Yet with each passing year, as projects are built in ever-more-remote places, the economic kick from each project becomes less and less. China is on track this year to add debt equal to four months’ economic output while its economy grows by an amount equal to less than two weeks’ output.

Local government borrowing “is still out of control,” said Gary Liu, an independent economist in Shanghai.

Particularly controversial on Chinese social media are statues built in areas of considerable poverty. Some local officials are following the model of the city of Wuxi, which drew tourists by the busload after it built a 259-foot statue of the Buddha in 1996. But more recent statues lack the same drawing power.

“The people who imitated later are doing nothing more than wasting labor and money,” said Zhou Mingqi, a tourism consultant in Shanghai.

In this environment, online critics seized on the Yang Asha statue when a video of it went viral this autumn. But the statue’s defenders argue that it and the region it represents have more to offer than mindless building.

The statue of Yang Asha stands 216 feet when measured from the hem of her gown to the top of her horned headdress. That is 65 feet taller than the Statue of Liberty’s torch, although New York City’s statue stands on a much larger base.

Yang Asha is the mythical ancestress of the Miao people, an ethnic minority in China closely related to the Hmong of Southeast Asia. The Miao make up the majority of the population of Jianhe, the county in Guizhou Province that built the statue.

Her headdress, which incorporates both horns and feathers, is meant to commemorate two Miao groups, and her pale white aspect nods at the Miao’s reputation as skilled silversmiths.

Yang Asha was an extraordinarily beautiful woman who was bullied by dark clouds into marrying the sun, according to local legend. She later deserted the sun in favor of the sun’s brother, the moon, and had to fight to stay with her new suitor, said Luo Yu, a City University of Hong Kong anthropologist who is from Guizhou Province.

Predictably, her story became one of class struggle under Mao, said Ms. Luo, with Yang Asha fleeing a landlord sun for a moon depicted as a heroic laborer or tenant farmer. In today’s telling, the Chinese state media gloss over the marital infidelity and economic inequality, describing her as a beautiful woman who fought for love.

Jianhe is in a region known for poverty, which has fueled much of the criticism over Yang Asha. The statue itself was erected nearly four years ago, but construction of its surrounding plaza was then quickly suspended in response to online criticism. The site still lacks bathrooms, parking and other basic amenities. An effort began over the summer to finish construction, but that has helped reawaken criticism of the project.

“It’d be so much better to spend the money on alleviating poverty,” asked one of the many commentators who have weighed in on social media. “What can a statue like this do?”

The local government says that the statue cost only $13 million, with none of it coming from anti-poverty programs, and helped the town draw 200,000 visitors during a weeklong National Day holiday at the start of October.

Verifying such numbers is difficult. Souvenir vendors at the statue said that about only 100 people might visit the site on a busy weekend day, and that most of them have been local residents lately because of the pandemic.

Some say the current criticisms go too far. They contend that affluent people in China’s big cities have become too quick to criticize ethnic minority communities in rural areas for spending money to honor their ancestors and their traditions.

Such critics “have this paternalistic, protective perception of destitute minorities,” said Louisa Schein, a Rutgers University anthropologist who has long studied the Miao.

Local officials dispute the idea that their region is impoverished. The Jianhe area declared early this year that it has raised its last few families out of extreme poverty.

The community itself, like many in rural China, no longer appears impoverished. It has been transformed by remittances from residents who migrated to work in furniture factories and construction sites elsewhere.

Liu Kaimu is one of the many Jianhe residents who joined that migration. He worked in Quzhou, a vast furniture-making hub in south-central coastal China that has attracted large numbers of Miao migrant workers, who have a strong woodworking tradition.

Mr. Liu made $750 to $900 a month and received free food and dormitory housing. In 2011, he bought a three-bedroom, 1,300-square-foot apartment for his family in Jianhe for $54,000.

Weeks before the pandemic, Mr. Liu, now 35, had decided he would stay in Jianhe. His son, now a freshman in high school, needs his father home more.

So Mr. Liu started a small business: a whirling children’s ride of bright purple rockets on the large but still unfinished concrete plaza in front of the Yang Asha statue. Mr. Liu said that his take-home income is actually slightly higher than when he was a migrant worker.

Mr. Liu is grateful that the statue has given him an alternative to life as a migrant worker. “What we did was hard toil,” he said. “It’s impossible to do that kind of work again.”





No.31 article:
Best Art Books of 2020

The long stretches of pandemic lockdown this year have afforded the chance to spend as much time reading about art as looking at it, which may account for the number of text-intensive recommendations on our lists. At the same time, with access to “live” art still limited, images on the pages of some books below will let you create your own private museums-at-home, and they’ll be pretty glorious. — Holland Cotter

‘PETER SAUL: PROFESSIONAL ARTIST CORRESPONDENCE, 1945-1976’ Edited by Dan Nadel (Bad Dimension Press)

Epistolary autobiographies are possible only if one writes letters often and well — like the maverick painter Peter Saul. This book contains over 100 letters from his correspondence with his parents and his first dealer, Allan Frumkin, whom he met in Paris in 1960. Both sets of letters are equally “professional,” in that they are smart, heartfelt reports from the studio about his progress, his place in the art world and his desire for success. Frumkin’s commitment jump-started Saul’s career. Two days after they met, the artist wrote to his parents about the dealer: “He said that it’s almost impossible to disappoint him except by dropping dead.”

‘MODERN ARTIFACTS’ By Michelle Elligott &amp; Tod Lippy (Esopus Books)

In 2006 Tod Lippy, an artist and editor, invited Michelle Elligott, chief of the Museum of Modern Art’s fabled archives, to write a column on some aspect of its holdings for his just-founded magazine, Esopus. This she did for each of its 18 issues, until 2018. All are republished here, with actual-size reproductions of telegrams, photographs, carbon copies of letters (remember those?), newspaper clippings and an early V.I.P. guestbook. Foldout facsimiles include Alfred H. Barr Jr.’s sketches for his famous chart of modernist art movements. Mixed with these are new projects by six contemporary artists — Mary Ellen Carroll, Rhea Karam, Mary Lum, Clifford Owens, Michael Rakowitz and Paul Ramirez Jonas — that illuminate additional aspects of the archive, revealing their contemporary implications.

‘ABSTRACT ART: A GLOBAL HISTORY’ By Pepe Karmel (Thames &amp; Hudson)

This large coffee table/art history book announces its singularity with its cover, a painting by Hilma af Klint, whose recently rediscovered achievement upended the history of modernist abstraction. A herculean effort, it reproduces the efforts of over 200 artists from all seven continents, usually with sharp capsule discussions. It provocatively divides abstraction according to subject matter (the body, the cosmos, landscape, architecture), increasing its accessibility. The book’s inclusions and theories can be debated, but it sets a standard for future efforts.

‘FÉLIX FÉNÉON: THE ANARCHIST AND THE AVANT-GARDE’ By Starr Figura, Isabelle Cahn, and Philippe Peltier (Museum of Modern Art)

This unusual exhibition was devoted not to an artist, but to a workaholic polymath: an anarchist. art critic, publisher, editor, collector and art dealer. He was an important early admirer of the Pointillist Georges Seurat and also of African sculpture. This catalog examines the facets of his many activities, one readable essay at a time. The result is an up-close portrait of the overlapping cultural spheres of fin de siècle Paris, seen from a new and telling perspective.

‘EVA HESSE: OBERLIN DRAWINGS’ Edited by Barry Rosen (Hauser &amp; Wirth)

When Eva Hesse died at 34 in 1970, she left behind an influential body of sculpture as well as a mass of drawings and works on paper whose extent is sumptuously revealed by this monumental volume. It reproduces more than 350 examples, almost all given to the museum over the years by the artist’s sister, Helen Hesse Charash. Ranging from 1952 to 1970, they include art-school figure drawings, adaptations of older artists’ styles and sketches for her canonical late works. Altogether, they indicate how Hesse achieved so much so quickly: She started young and never let up.

‘DURO OLOWU: SEEING’ Edited by Naomi Beckwith (Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago/DelMonico Books/Prestel)

This impressive little volume is a catalog of the exhibition “Duro Olowu: Seeing Chicago,” organized for the Museum of Contemporary Art by the Nigerian-born fashion designer and self-taught curator, with nearly everything selected from the city’s museums and private collections. But it is equally a handbook to Mr. Olowu’s extraordinary interdisciplinary, multicultural curatorial sensibility, first revealed in his gallery-like London boutique, where he surrounded his designs with all manner of jewelry, art, craft and vintage photographs, records and magazines. The works in the show are similarly diverse, triangulated among several generations of creators in the United States, Europe and Africa. The book reproduces many of them in a deliberately compressed format — without borders, often seen in close-up and sometimes overlaid with additional images. They invite the close observation that is Mr. Olowu’s modus operandi.

‘ROSIE LEE TOMPKINS: A RETROSPECTIVE’ By Elaine Y. Yau, Lawrence Rinder and Horace Ballard (University of California, Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive)

The catalog to the first retrospective of the quilt-artist Rosie Lee Tompkins (1936-2006) is essential to familiarity with the achievements of superlative 20th-century artists who never set foot in the art world. Lavishly illustrated, it features three excellent essays and traces the extraordinary visual range of the quilts, which can resemble found-object collages, consist entirely of glowing velvets; or elevate double-knit polyester and vintage clothing. Tompkins — who also made assemblages — transformed everything she touched with her improvisatory piecing and unerring sense of color, composition and scale. In the still-unfolding field of African-American quilt-making, she has no equal.

‘SAHEL: ART AND EMPIRES ON THE SHORES OF THE SAHARA’ By Alisa LaGamma (Metropolitan Museum of Art). Sahel derives from the Arabic word for shore or coast. It was the name given by traders crossing the oceanic Sahara to the welcoming grasslands that marked the desert’s southern rim, terrain that includes modern Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Senegal. On the evidence of art from the region, the culture early travelers encountered must have looked bewildering, rich and strange. It still does in this Met book, the catalog for the most beautiful exhibition of the 2020 season.

‘LATINX ART: ARTISTS, MARKETS, AND POLITICS’ By Arlene Dávila (Duke University Press). The marketing of modern and contemporary art from Latin America is one of the success stories of the globalist decades, giving a once-niche interest a presence in big North American museums. Exactly the opposite is true of Latinx art, loosely defined as work made by artists of Latin American birth or descent who live primarily in the United States. That lack of institutional support is dictated by the politics of class, economics and race, the cultural anthropologist Arlene Dávila argues in this important broadside of a book.

‘WOMEN, ART, AND SOCIETY’ By Whitney Chadwick (Thames &amp; Hudson). Whitney Chadwick’s fact-packed critical survey of art by women was a monument in the field of feminist Western art history when it first appeared in 1990, and an important corrective to centuries of neglect. In its newly released and updated reissue, it’s bigger than ever and still foundational, a bible. Ms. Chadwick’s protest-scholarship finds a boots-in-the-street counterpart in the work of the Guerrilla Girls, a fluid band of anonymous, ape-masked female artists who’ve been visually and verbally calling out art-world misogyny since the late 1980s, as documented in the visually lively ‘GUERRILLA GIRLS: THE ART OF BEHAVING BADLY’ By the Guerrilla Girls (Chronicle Books).

‘MARKING TIME: ART IN THE AGE OF MASS INCARCERATION’ By Nicole R. Fleetwood (Harvard University Press). The United States has the largest population of captive human beings on the planet, some 2.5 million, in a prison-industrial complex that constitutes a punitive universe walled off the larger world. What takes place behind those walls? Deprivation and cruelty, but also art, as we learn from this absorbing book that serves as a companion piece for a remarkable group show of the same title at MoMA PS1 (through April 4, 2021).

‘QUEER COMMUNION: RON ATHEY’ Edited by Amelia Jones and Andy Campbell (Intellect). “Exhibitionists shall inherit the earth,” wrote the pioneering performance artist and Jesse Helms whipping-boy Ron Athey, who has secured a place in the history books for his physically, psychologically and politically extreme body-centered work. This substantial book, a companion volume to a career survey set to open at Participant Inc in January, includes tributes by devoted colleagues but is most engaging as a compendium of Mr. Athey’s own writing, much of it autobiographical. Whether he’s speaking as an ex-Pentecostal, a punk rocker, a porn magazine columnist, an H.I.V. positive gay activist or a mentor to generations of queer nonconformists, he’s a bracing read, and never more so than when he’s playing, shock-jock style, with ethical fire.

‘GRIEF AND GRIEVANCE: ART AND MOURNING IN AMERICA’ Conceived by Okwui Enwezor (Phaidon). Up to his death in 2019, the Nigerian-born curator Okwui Enwezor was working on a group exhibition he described as a response to the wave of “politically orchestrated white grievance” sweeping the United States and “the crystallization of Black grief” it produced. The catalog for the show (scheduled to open in January at the New Museum) is a prescient document of a continuing condition, and a tribute to Mr. Enwezor and the canon of Black artists he helped to shape.

‘THE DESTRUCTION OF LOWER MANHATTAN,’ by Danny Lyon (Aperture). ‘GODLIS STREETS’ (Reel Art Press). Late in a year that has seen New York City simultaneously surviving a pandemic and an emptying-out come two blast-from-the-past photography books that take the distressed city as a subject. Aperture has reissued Danny Lyon’s anguished 1960s pictorial record of the demolition of 19th-century buildings in the Wall Street area in the name of “urban renewal.” And from Reel Art Press come pictures of the recession-tattered Manhattan of the 1970s and ’80s by the vigilant street photographer David Godlis. Mr. Lyon’s pictures are mostly of buildings, Mr. Godlis’s mostly of people. In both cases, the New York they captured is gone, just as surely as the one we knew at the beginning of 2020.

Holiday Stocking-Stuffer:

‘FROG POND SPLASH: COLLAGES BY RAY JOHNSON WITH TEXTS BY WILLIAM S. WILSON’ Edited by Elizabeth Zuba (Siglio). The artist Ray Johnson (1927-1995) and the writer William S. Wilson (1932-2016) were decades-long friends — soul mates really is the word — and comparably skilled acrobats of images and words. This lovely little book pairs well-known collages by Johnson, the inventor of Mail Art, with little known writing on him by Wilson, and it’s a serious pleasure, just the thing to light up a dark-early, late-year night.

‘RAPHAEL 1520-1483’ Edited by Marzia Faietti and Matteo Lafranconi (Skira). There’s no 2020 show I regret missing more than this one in Rome, the largest Raphael retrospective ever. As the title indicates, both exhibition and catalog proceed in reverse chronological order. From the epic funeral procession after Raphael’s death on his 37th birthday, we rewind through his indelible portraits of the Medici pope Leo X and the courtier Baldassare Castiglione, past his grand “School of Athens,” to his first, hesitant figure studies in Urbino. This a posteriori saga gives us a refreshed Raphael, whose psychological acuity feels newly approachable.

‘FLUENCE: THE CONTINUANCE OF YOHJI YAMAMOTO’ By Takay (Damiani). Long resident in London and New York, the Japanese photographer Takay returned home to shoot this profoundly beautiful book, documenting three decades of experimental tailoring by the designer Yohji Yamamoto. Takay’s subjects trail Mr. Yamamoto’s black gowns and suits through undistinguished Tokyo streets; the fashion portraits alternate with images of birds on a power line or Shinjuku at midnight, shot in the grainy black-and-white style called are-bure-boke (“rough, blurred and out-of-focus”). Posing alongside the professional models are several titans of Japanese culture: the actress Rie Miyazawa, fragile and rumpled in a polka-dot gown from 1999; the theater director Yukio Ninagawa, pensive in a thick wool jacket; and even Daido Moriyama, the godfather of postwar Japanese photography, whose portrait here in a three-quarter-length overcoat embodies estranged Tokyo cool.

‘ARTEMISIA’ Edited by Letizia Treves (National Gallery, London/Yale). “I will show Your Illustrious Lordship what a woman can do,” Artemisia Gentileschi told a Sicilian client in 1649 — and indeed, this Baroque painter put herself on the front lines of her dramatic tableaux. This catalog’s new scholarship reveals how Gentileschi blended self-portraiture and allegory, in paintings of herself as Saint Catherine of Alexandria, or in her gruesome “Judith Beheading Holofernes,” painted just after the notorious trial of the fellow artist who raped her. There is much more to Gentileschi than the violence she depicted: This book also reproduces recently discovered letters to a lover, swearing, “I am yours as long as I draw breath.”

‘THE PEOPLE SHALL GOVERN! MEDU ART ENSEMBLE AND THE ANTI-APARTHEID POSTER’ Edited by Antawan I. Byrd and Felicia Mings (Art Institute of Chicago/Yale). In the years after the Soweto Uprising of 1976, South Africa’s townships were papered with bold agitprop whose pared-down imagery came with a promise: This country would soon be free. They were the work of Medu (whose name means “roots” in Sesotho), a multiracial coalition of more than 60 artists who fought for the liberation of South Africa through screen prints and lithographs, printed in Botswana and smuggled over the border. This book assembles nearly all the surviving specimens, and should offer young artists a model of collective authorship and political engagement.

‘THE LOUVRE: THE HISTORY, THE COLLECTIONS, THE ARCHITECTURE’ By Genevieve Bresc-Bautier, photographed by Gérard Rondeau (Rizzoli). It’s not only Europe’s greatest museum; the Louvre is also a palace, upon which France’s kings, revolutionaries, emperors and presidents have projected visions of power and nationhood. Visit without the crowds or the jet lag with this sumptuous volume, whose 600 pages let you scrutinize the woodwork of Henri II’s bedroom, the gold of Louis XIV’s Galerie d’Apollon, the glass of I.M. Pei’s pyramid. The pleasure of this book comes from narrating the Louvre’s history as residence and museum together, and photographing the whole collection in situ.

‘VAN EYCK’ Edited by Maximiliaan Martens et al. (Thames &amp; Hudson). His crystalline panels of saints and burghers are so accomplished they can feel unassailable — and so does this hefty volume, the catalog of the largest Jan Van Eyck show ever staged (at the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent, Belgium). It concentrates on the altarpiece he and his brother Hubert painted in the 1420-30s, whose recent restoration laid bare the optical innovations that fueled his unprecedented naturalism. Nothing can replace seeing these too-perfect panels in person, but this book, printed by the masters at Die Keure press in Bruges, comes pretty close. (Read more about the show.)

‘GENEALOGIES OF ART, OR THE HISTORY OF ART AS VISUAL ART’ Edited by Manuel Fontán del Junco, José Lebrero Stals and María Zozaya Álvarez (Fundación Juan March). In 1936, MoMA’s first director Alfred H. Barr Jr. drew a famous diagram of modern art’s development, with arrows leading from Cézanne to Cubism, thence to de Stijl and Dada, and triumphantly to abstraction. This catalog for an ingenious exhibition in Madrid arranges dozens of modernist paintings, plus African sculpture and Japanese woodblocks, in the exact order Barr mapped them — revealing the ambitions, and also limitations, of a teleological art history. It also presents other efforts, from the 17th century to today, to chart painterly styles; these family trees and flow charts turn art history from a science of images to an image itself.

‘CRITICAL ZONES: THE SCIENCE AND POLITICS OF LANDING ON EARTH’ Edited by Bruno Latour and Peter Weibel (MIT/ZKM Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe). Climate change should furnish to art what Galileo delivered to theology: a definitive rupture of where we think we stand. The giant catalog for this German exhibition unites philosophers, scientists, historians and artists (from Caspar David Friedrich to Sarah Sze) to re-anchor art inside a constantly transforming ecosystem. The old “Blue Marble” won’t cut it; we need new methods of depicting Earth and its landscapes that account for our codependency with all species. After all, as the editors write, aesthetics is “what renders one sensitive to the existence of other ways of life.”

‘THE BRUTISH MUSEUMS: THE BENIN BRONZES, COLONIAL VIOLENCE AND CULTURAL RESTITUTION’ By Dan Hicks (Pluto Press). The Benin Bronzes, shorthand for thousands of objects looted in the British sacking of Benin City in 1897, epitomize the violence at the core of anthropological collections and in their continued display. A curator at the Pitt Rivers Museum at Oxford University, Dan Hicks casts an unflinching eye on his institution’s history and the prevarications of museums today that deflect mounting calls for restitution with offers of loans, partnerships, or updated wall text. Time’s up, he insists. Restitution will not diminish museums; quite the contrary, Hicks argues, it is key to their renewal. If you care about museums and the world, read this book.

‘THE TIDE WILL TURN’ By Shahidul Alam; edited by Vijay Prashad (Steidl). The eminent Bangladeshi photographer Shahidul Alam was jailed for more than three months in 2018 for denouncing the repression of protesters. Released after a mobilization of local and foreign support, he reflects here on his prison experience and a life of fighting for justice (for laborers, survivors of gender violence, Indigenous groups, and others) through image and deed. Some of his finest pictures illustrate the text, as do his selections of noteworthy images by other Bangladeshi photographers. Solidarity and integrity reign, along with tenacious optimism, expressed in a heartfelt exchange of letters with the writer-activist Arundhati Roy. (Read about his current exhibition.)

‘GLITCH FEMINISM: A MANIFESTO’ By Legacy Russell (Verso). “This book is for those who are en route to becoming their avatars,” writes Legacy Russell, a dynamic curator at the Studio Museum in Harlem who celebrates the glitch, the slippage that makes machinery malfunction, as a portal to escape the gender binary and social control of the body. Grounded in theory (from Edouard Glissant to Donna Haraway) but a fast, percussive read, her text is also a guide to the growing field of art practices — notably driven by Black and queer creators —- that dissolve the boundary between “internet art” and physical performance, activism and community-building. “Glitch refuses,” she titles one chapter; it also “ghosts,” “encrypts,” but “mobilizes,” and most of all — this is a theory of liberation — “survives.”

‘ROAD THROUGH MIDNIGHT: A CIVIL RIGHTS MEMORIAL’ By Jessica Ingram (University of North Carolina Press). Around 2005, the photographer Jessica Ingram began visiting sites of racial terror in the Deep South — some famous, like the Mississippi town where the young civil rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner were killed in 1964, but others barely known beyond their immediate communities. She went quietly, returned over the years, and eventually reached out to descendants, whose interviews, along with news clippings and legal files, accompany her photographs of these rural locations. Ms. Ingram is white, and careful and candid about her implication; she is also Southern, and highly tuned to how the land — more than any statue or marker — carries memory.





No.32 article:
New Jersey’s American Dream Mall Is Still Waiting to Fully Open

When the American Dream mall, a massive shopping and entertainment complex next to MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., finally opened its doors to the public last October, its owner, the Triple Five Group, was eager to prove naysayers wrong.

Skepticism had abounded in the 15 years since construction first started on the project, which was initially known as Xanadu Meadowlands and promised extravagances like an indoor ski slope. But the mall cycled through developers and billions of dollars in funding, and faced numerous delays.

Once Triple Five, the Canadian real estate firm behind the Mall of America in Minnesota, took over in 2011, it was determined to reignite enthusiasm for the project. It changed the name from Xanadu to American Dream, altered an exterior that then-Governor Chris Christie had called “the ugliest” in the state and promised even more marvels, like an indoor water park and additional roller coasters.

But only months after portions of the complex began opening, starting with its ice-skating rink and a Nickelodeon amusement park, the pandemic hit.

“It was extremely, extremely unfortunate, the timing of it all,” Don Ghermezian, chief executive of Triple Five and co-chief executive of American Dream, said in an interview. “The shutdown came in March, only a couple of days before we were planning to open the balance of the center.”

Mr. Ghermezian said he was upbeat about the future of the mall, which reopened some of its attractions on Oct. 1. But the pandemic has battered many retailers and shopping malls and left many shoppers skittish about much of what Triple Five was betting on — travel, crowds and the allure of indoor spaces. It has also put a spotlight on the money tied to the success of the complex, which is now facing the threat of yet another shutdown during the all-important holiday shopping season as coronavirus cases spike again.

“It definitely is tremendously bad luck,” said Vince Tibone, a retail analyst at Green Street, a commercial real estate analytics firm. “Until there’s a widespread vaccine, and both domestic and international travel rebounds to what it used to be, it’s going to be hard for this mall to get the foot traffic it was hoping for.”

Triple Five, which also owns Canada’s West Edmonton mall, had anticipated 40 million visitors a year at American Dream, a notably ambitious figure that would put it on par with Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla. Mr. Tibone noted that the complex was already facing questions around how it would shuttle tourists between Manhattan and northern New Jersey. And beyond pandemic-forced store closures, American Dream is facing the issue that its attractions — from its ski slope and caviar bar to its roller coasters and DreamWorks-themed water park — are indoors at a time when public health officials are telling people to stay outside.

All three of Triple Five’s malls have suffered this year because of the pandemic, including the Mall of America, which reportedly entered a cash-management agreement last summer after missing months of mortgage payments.

The company projected that the American Dream complex would eventually support more than 20,000 jobs and generate nearly $150 million annually in state and local taxes, a lawyer for Triple Five wrote in an April letter to the Federal Reserve about its so-called Main Street lending program for midsize businesses. But the mall was still in the process of opening in phases it called “chapters” and its mid-March shutdown came just days before the center could open its most standard offering — its retail stores.

Since the mall was first conceived, it has had to grapple with a fast-changing shopping landscape and the bankruptcies of announced tenants like Barneys New York and Toys “R” Us, as well as the fact that the county where it is based prohibits retail sales on Sundays. This year has spurred another wave of bankruptcies from major chains, including announced tenants like Lord &amp; Taylor and Century 21.

Mr. Ghermezian said that the shopping center lost “very, very few tenants” and that those that had exited because of the pandemic were replaced. He said that if not for the shutdowns, as many as 200 of the mall’s retail and food tenants would probably have opened this month. As of last week, he said, about 90 were open, including the biggest Zara in the United States and the flagship for the fast-fashion chain Primark.

Investors and local politicians, including in the borough of East Rutherford, have been concerned about the future of American Dream.

The $5 billion development has received hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayer incentives and promised millions of dollars in payments in coming years to East Rutherford, which has been watching the site’s progress for what has felt like an eternity.

“We thought the Xanadu project would be open by 2007,” said James Cassella, the former mayor of East Rutherford who retired in 2019 after more than 20 years in the role. Even after Triple Five entered the picture, he said, “there were more opening dates on this than you could imagine.”

“There was always something that delayed it from Day 1,” he said. “Building, financing, economy, interest rates — you name it.”

Mr. Cassella said that East Rutherford negotiated annual payments from American Dream that went out for decades, with additional money coming in after the mall opened. The borough was also looking forward to jobs created by the development.

But public records show that American Dream is behind on its payments to East Rutherford. In January, East Rutherford voters also narrowly approved a $35.5 million, 20-year bond to fund improvements at its schools after officials said money from the American Dream development would help mitigate the tax burden for residents. The bond became a point of contention during local elections this year as concerns built around the shopping complex. East Rutherford representatives didn’t respond to requests for comment.

When the mall reopened for business on Oct. 1, Lisa Washburn, an analyst for Municipal Market Analytics, took a research trip to see what the first back-to-business day looked like. The crowds were sparse, she said, and many stores had more workers than customers. (She bought $14 worth of gummy bears at the IT’SUGAR candy store.)

The development sits on state land and was able to obtain tax-free debt financing through a series of bonds that could carry risks to investors.

Ms. Washburn said there was very little transparency into the mall’s finances for bond investors to look at so it was difficult to obtain an accurate picture of its situation. “The disclosure is very poor,” she said.

Investors are also watching a $27 million debt payment that is due next month.

When asked whether the debt payment would be made, Mr. Ghermezian said, “We are working with our lenders on a regular basis to put a plan in place that allows the center to continue to flourish.” American Dream is also working out other payments, including those to East Rutherford, he said.

“Yes, there’s some money that is owed,” he said. “But again, not unlike any other developer in the country that has had their projects shut down across the board, we need to work as true partners with the municipalities, with lenders, with tenants, to make sure everyone is taking a fair position and fair share in how to manage this pandemic.”

Mr. Ghermezian said that Triple Five still intended to build out “a couple million more square feet” in the Meadowlands, with plans in place for a convention center and roughly 3,000 to 3,500 hotel rooms. The firm anticipates that once tourism recovers, people, especially families, visiting New York would stay at American Dream before traveling into the city.

Triple Five, which is named for three generations of the Ghermezian family and its five founders, is also continuing to pursue a similarly ambitious mall project in Miami, though perhaps at a slower pace than it did before Covid-19, Mr. Ghermezian said. While he acknowledged the challenges facing shopping centers, he said that projects like American Dream stood apart from typical malls and stores.

“You’re going to see a hell of a lot of shopping centers foreclosed on this year,” he said. “The last guys remaining will be successful and we firmly believe, 100 percent, that is American Dream in this market.”

He added, “We’re going to own American Dream for the next 100, 200 years or whatever it is.”

For now, American Dream is working to persuade people to visit. Since reopening, it has waived its parking fees. In ads on social media it has highlighted its social-distancing and virus-safety guidelines. The ads urge people to shop, visit characters like SpongeBob SquarePants at the Nickelodeon theme park and escape the cold in the mall’s water park, where the temperature is maintained at 81 degrees Fahrenheit.

“If there was no pandemic, I would be afraid we’d be getting too much traffic in American Dream,” Mr. Ghermezian said.

Joel Brizzi, a former East Rutherford councilman, said that though he had long been optimistic about the project and Triple Five, he was concerned about the mall and whether it could withstand a second pandemic-related shutdown.

“How long can you keep going without any revenue?” Mr. Brizzi said. “The jury’s still out on whether it’s going to survive.”

Mr. Cassella, the former mayor, said that he was also worried about the mall’s ability to weather the pandemic.

“There are always people that say, ‘I hope this place fails,’ but it wouldn’t be good for anybody if this thing fails,” he said. “It would be an absolute disaster for the state for sure, the complex, and quite frankly, East Rutherford would lose out because we’ve gone so far with it. It would be a big revenue loss.”





No.33 article:
Dr. Mary Fowkes, 66, Dies; Helped Science Understand the Pandemic

She performed autopsies in New York that found blood clots in vital organs, suggesting how much the virus spreads through the body.

Dr. Mary Fowkes, a neuropathologist at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan whose autopsies of Covid-19 victims early in the pandemic discovered serious damage in multiple organs — a finding that led to the successful use of higher doses of blood thinners to treat patients — died on Nov. 15 at her home in Katonah, N.Y., in Westchester County. She was 66.

Her daughter, Jackie Treatman, said the cause was a heart attack.

When Dr. Fowkes (rhymes with “pokes”) and her team began their autopsies, little was known about the novel coronavirus, which was believed to be largely a respiratory disease. The first few dozen autopsies revealed that Covid-19 affected the lungs and other vital organs, and that the virus probably traveled through a patient’s blood vessels and damaged the endothelial cells, which line the blood vessels’ interior.

“We saw very small and very microscopic blood clots in the lungs, the heart, the liver — and significant blood clots in the brain,” Dr. Fowkes said in an interview on the CBS News program “60 Minutes” for a segment, broadcast on Nov. 22, on the long-term effects of Covid-19. She had been interviewed by the correspondent Anderson Cooper on Oct. 30, a little more than two weeks before her death.

The clots in the brain suggested that there had been strokes, she told Mr. Cooper.

Mr. Cooper asked if she had expected to see the breadth of damage in so many organs.

“No, not at all,” Dr. Fowkes said. “Nobody’s seen it like this.”

Dr. Fowkes “had a curious scientific mind and an uncompromising attitude to doing as many autopsies as possible to produce something that was unique,” Dr. Carlos Cordon-Cardo, chairman of the department of pathology, molecular and cell-based medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, said in a phone interview.

Dr. Cordon-Cardo said that the findings from the autopsies of Covid patients done by Dr. Fowkes’s team had led to an aggressive increase in the use of blood thinners, resulting in a marked improvement in the health of some patients. The medications were adjusted to account for the elevated response to Covid by patients’ immune systems, he said.

Dr. Fowkes and others involved in the Covid autopsies wrote a paper on their findings and released it in May, but it has not been peer-reviewed and published.

Mary Elizabeth Fowkes was born on Nov. 1, 1954, in Clayton, a village in northern New York, and grew up in Syracuse. Her mother, Isabel (Walroth) Fowkes, was a social worker. Her father, Glen, wrote insurance policies.

Dr. Fowkes graduated from the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry in Syracuse in 1977 and then worked as a physician assistant.

Looking to improve her chances of getting into medical school, she became a technician at a cell and developmental biology laboratory, then enrolled in a doctoral program in anatomy and cell biology at SUNY Upstate Medical University, also in Syracuse. She eventually entered a combined Ph.D.-M.D. program at the school and graduated with both degrees in 1999.

Dr. Fowkes completed her residency in pathology at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston in 2003. She then had fellowships in neuropathology at New York University Medical Center and in forensic pathology at the office of New York City’s chief medical examiner, where she was mentored by Dr. Barbara Sampson, who was on the staff at the time, in 2006, and is today the city’s chief medical examiner.

“What she really learned from us is what can be learned in an autopsy, the importance of giving families closure and the importance of an autopsy to public health and understanding disease,” Dr. Sampson said in a phone interview.

After her city fellowship, Dr. Fowkes joined the Icahn School as an assistant professor of pathology and remained on the faculty until her death. She was named Mount Sinai’s director of neuropathology in 2012 and its director of autopsy service two years later. She encouraged the hospital to perform more autopsies, citing their educational value, and pushed for an expansion of the hospital’s brain bank.

Her wide-ranging research included a recent focus on recurrent meningiomas, slow-growing benign brain tumors.

She also mentored many young doctors, including Nadia Tsankova, a neuropathologist.

“I was very passionate about combining research and clinical service,” Dr. Tsankova said in an interview. “And Mary was very passionate about research. Sometimes you take a job and you aspire for something and your boss says, ‘No, you have to do this.’ But she would say, ‘I understand what you have to do and we’ll make it work.”

Dr. Fowkes viewed autopsies as essential to understanding disease and felt obligated to perform them on Covid victims despite her being in a vulnerable age group.

When performing autopsies, which are done on the hospital’s main floor, she used an oscillating saw to open the skull cavity to remove the brain, which potentially exposed her to the virus through aerosolized bits of bone and blood.

“There were only four pathologists who were willing to potentially risk their lives to start doing autopsies on these cases,” Dr. Fowkes told the BBC in June. But, she added, “I considered it critically important to end up doing this work so we could get some answers to know how to treat the patients correctly. So we did use all the protective equipment, but we were still very scared, to be perfectly honest.”

With protective equipment in short supply during the late winter and early spring, Dr. Fowkes would wear an N95 mask for a week at a time.

In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her mother; a son, Derek Treatman; and her brothers, Mark (her twin) and John. Her marriage to Scott Treatman ended in divorce.

During the “60 Minutes” segment, Dr. Fowkes held a slice of a Covid victim’s cerebellum in her left hand. Mr. Cooper pointed to a brown indentation on the brain matter.

“That’s a stroke?” he asked.

“That’s a stroke,” she said.

At the end of the report, Mr. Cooper told the audience that Dr. Fowkes had died.





No.34 article:
5 Things to Do This Weekend

Our critics and writers have selected noteworthy cultural events to experience virtually.

If your children have had their fill of turkey and tradition, you can offer them more exotic fare — the cinematic kind — from nations far away. From Saturday through Dec. 6, the Brooklyn Academy of Music is presenting a cultural tasting menu in the form of the Best of BAMkids Film Festival 2020, an hourlong video-on-demand program of short animated works from 10 countries. For families who couldn’t go to the full festival in February, this virtual event presents 12 highlights to sample at home.

Sumptuous food appears here, too: tempting desserts in “Pen &amp; Magic” (Japan), a towering birthday cake adorned with fish in “Little Grey Wolfy — Summer Party” (Norway) and vibrant vegetable soup in “The Rainbow Giant” (Taiwan). Geared toward ages 3 to 6, the shorts also feature a musical squirrel, artistic snails and an aeronautically minded mouse.

The pay-what-you-wish program (the minimum is $5) can be savored for 48 hours after purchasers first click on a link they’ll receive from the streaming platform Eventive.LAUREL GRAEBER

The renowned Canadian choreographer Crystal Pite has a knack for finding the propulsive poetry of large ensembles. In 2017’s “Flight Pattern,” a meditation on the refugee crisis that has been haunting Europe, she conjures both chaos and a precarious calm in a swirling mass of 36 dancers. A 2019 performance of the short work, which was commissioned by England’s Royal Ballet, is now available to stream until Dec. 5 on the company’s website (tickets are $3.25).

Through Dec. 13, for $10.95, the Royal Ballet also offers access to last month’s two-hour gala-like medley of excerpts from several new and classic ballets danced by company stars such as Francesca Hayward, Natalia Osipova and Marianela Nuñez. The evening culminates in a full performance of Christopher Wheeldon’s sumptuous and richly textured “Within the Golden Hour.” Online screenings of Frederick Ashton’s “Enigma Variations” and, of course, “The Nutcracker” will arrive in early December.BRIAN SCHAEFER

As conditions — meteorological and epidemiological — become frightful, can a live comedy show still sound delightful? Perhaps, but only if you can view it from the safety of your own home. So thank John Farnsworth for opening up his backyard and bringing a vaudeville called “The Great Outdoors” to an electronic device of your choice this weekend.

Farnsworth plays host from his own patch of pavement in Ridgewood, Queens, broadcasting comedy and musical performances with a multicam setup, with stars on the ground and lights in the trees. The lineup includes stand-up from Jay Jurden, Arti Gollapudi and Solange Azor, musical comedy from Marcia Belsky, and music from Slight Of. The livestream is available at fiveohm.tv and starts at 8 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday. Tickets are on a sliding scale, from $5 to $50, with all proceeds going to the Ridgewood Tenants Union, a mutual aid network for neighborhood residents in need during the pandemic.SEAN L. McCARTHY

Tragic error isn’t limited to a particular time or location. Since 2003, the MacArthur-winning playwright and performance artist Luis Alfaro has taken the plays of Euripides and Sophocles and transposed them to his native Los Angeles.

Repopulated with Latino characters, unstrung by fates like the Greeks before them, Alfaro’s works explore themes of violence, liberation and belonging. Linguistically vibrant and emotionally opulent, the dramas retain their force even as they acquire new vocabulary and characters. “Electricidad” updates “Electra” to a Los Angeles barrio. “Oedipus El Rey” includes a chorus clad in prison jumpsuits. “Mojada,” a version of “Medea,” recalibrates the play as a tragedy of an undocumented immigrant.

Now Los Angeles’s Center Theater Group and the Getty Museum have brought his Greek trilogy online, streaming readings of “Electricidad,” directed by Laurie Woolery; “Oedipus El Rey,” directed by Chay Yew; and “Mojada,” directed by Juliette Carrillo. All are available — in English, with optional Spanish captioning — free at the Center Theater Group’s website through Jan. 20.ALEXIS SOLOSKI

As an interpreter of Puerto Rican folk songs and popular fare, the alto saxophonist Miguel Zenón has made a case for the richness of that island’s musical traditions, without fundamentally upending his own personal compass and style on the way. The biggest selling point for his dozen albums as a leader has remained the slithery, energy-spilling saxophone playing, and the ease with which Zenón invents new routes through his quartet’s constantly evolving rearrangements of these tunes.

On his most recent release, “Sonero: The Music of Ismael Rivera,” Zenón, a MacArthur “genius” fellow, celebrated one of Puerto Rico’s great salsa crooners and composers. On Friday at 5 p.m. Eastern time, he will play a program of boleros, or slow dance numbers, alongside Luis Perdomo, the pianist in his quartet. The performance can be streamed at Zenón’s Facebook page; a $10 donation to the artists is suggested.GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO





No.35 article:
How Much Watching Time Do You Have This Weekend?

This long Thanksgiving weekend, check out a great concert, a craft show for kids and a reboot that’s better than the original.

Every Monday and Friday, Margaret offers hyper-specific viewing recommendations in our Watching newsletter. Read her latest picks below, and sign up for the Watching newsletter here.

‘Great Performances: Lea Salonga in Concert’When to watch: Friday at 9 p.m., on PBS. (Check local listings.)

This concert, filmed last November at the Sydney Opera House, is a ton of fun — a terrific set list, the correct amount of banter and just enough shots of musicians thoughtfully tooting away. The Broadway and Disney star Lea Salonga sings some of what you would expect from her oeuvre, including a “A Whole New World,” which she performs as a duet with an audience member, along with a few surprises like “Meadowlark” from “The Baker’s Wife.”

‘Craftopia’When to watch: Now, on HBO Max.

If you are managing some of your cabin fever by bedazzling things and watching instructional D.I.Y. videos, or if your household is still into slime, try this good-natured kid-geared craft competition series — like “Making It” for the locker-decorating set. Three creative tweens go head-to-head on each episode, and the judges’ feedback is sweet and supportive. Depending on your tolerance for glitter use, plenty of the challenges could be adapted for the home audience. There are eight regular episodes, two Halloween specials and two new Christmas specials.

‘Saved by the Bell’When to watch: Now, on Peacock.

This revival of the beloved teen sitcom sounded like a terrible idea — but it’s actually bright and charming. In this iteration, the children of the original characters are now students at Bayside, which, thanks to Governor Zack Morris’s fumbling, is welcoming the student body from an underfunded, now-shuttered high school. If you’re into zingy teen shows like “Never Have I Ever,” or the self-aware earnestness of “Cobra Kai,” or if you enjoy the contemporary recapitulation of “The Babysitters Club,” watch this. If you care only about seeing Zack, Kelly, Slater, Jessie, one minute of Lisa and a glancing reference to Screech, skip ahead to Episode 8.





No.36 article:
England’s Lockdown Will Lift, but Many Pub Doors Will Stay Closed

Some Conservative lawmakers are calling Boris Johnson’s plans to continue restricting most of England’s bars and restaurants “authoritarian.”

LONDON — Under fire from critics over the economic and social cost of his coronavirus restrictions, Prime Minister Boris Johnson will bring a grueling, second, national lockdown in England to an end next week.

But under a new set of rules announced on Thursday, which divide England into three tiers of restrictions, the access to bars and restaurants will differ drastically from place to place depending on the government’s assessment of the local threat posed by the virus.

And that means the more than 23 million people who live in the most restricted tier still face a ban on one of the nation’s favored activities: a visit to the pub. This ban will not only disappoint patrons but also deprive the beleaguered hospitality sector of critical revenue in the run-up to Christmas, when pubs and restaurants are usually overflowing.

With the holiday season arriving, Mr. Johnson has a difficult balance to strike in trying to tweak the exit from the lockdown in a way that is neither so stringent that many fail to comply, nor so lax that it allows the virus to get out of control.

Opinion polls generally show that Britons support tough measures and prefer to prioritize health over the economy. And the risk to health remains real.

While the daily number of Covid-19 cases is falling and is now at around 17,500, almost 500 deaths were announced in the latest 24-hour period for which data is available.

But the political backlash against the new pub rules was swift as Graham Brady, who chairs the influential 1922 committee of Conservative backbench lawmakers, told the BBC that he would vote against the three-tier plan when it goes to Parliament for approval next week. Previous government restrictions have been approved despite a rebellion of some Tory lawmakers.

“I have severe reservations on so many different levels,” Mr. Brady said. “I do think that the policies have been far too authoritarian. I think they have interfered in people’s private and personal lives in a way which is unacceptable.”

In Thursday’s closely watched announcement of post-lockdown rules, the government said it plans to allow areas in the second of the three tiers, including London and Liverpool, to permit bars to serve alcohol to customers who order food. Even this relaxation, however, will restrict the ability of many pubs to operate profitably, their owners say.

But throughout huge swathes of the country, including most of its other big cities like Manchester and Birmingham, the government wants tougher restrictions to be in place, with pub and restaurant doors kept firmly shuttered when the national lockdown ends on Dec. 2.

In these highest risk areas, only take out service will be permitted.

“With 99 percent of the country in tiers two or three, this remains lockdown in all but name for nearly all pubs during the most important trading month of the year,” said Nick Mackenzie, chief executive of the pub chain Greene King.

“This puts hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk and places the future of British pubs in even greater doubt for the years ahead,” he said, adding that of the more than 2,300 pubs in his chain in England, just six will be in areas where they can operate relatively normally — in the so-called first tier.

Fewer than one million people in the south of England will live in areas under the lightest curbs where bars and restaurants can operate relatively normally, whereas more than 55 million live in the other two tiers.

But beyond the world of pubs and restaurants, the end of lockdown will make a difference because, even in the worst hit parts of England, stores, gyms, and hairdressers are being allowed to reopen, and religious services, weddings and outdoor sports to restart. Retailers will have a chance to open up during the lucrative Christmas shopping season.

This week Mr. Johnson also announced plans to relax rules on social mixing to allow up to three households to gather together from Dec. 22-27 to celebrate Christmas, but health experts warn this will likely cause a spike in infections.

But large parts of the country that went into the national lockdown this month with light restrictions will be moved into tiers with tougher restrictions after Dec. 2, raising questions as to whether the government’s lockdowns have worked.

Damian Green, a Conservative Party lawmaker wrote on Twitter that he was “hugely disappointed” that the whole of Kent, a region some of which he represents, was placed in tier three.

“Before lockdown we were in tier one so what has lockdown achieved?” he asked.

At a news conference Mr. Johnson argued that tough restrictions were vital to control the spread of infections. “If we ease off now, we risk losing control of this virus all over again, casting aside our hard won gains and forcing us back into a New Year national lockdown,” he said.

He added that if the government was to keep schools open, as it wants, its options for reducing social contact were limited.

Some critics think the tiers fail to take sufficient account of local variations within regions, while others worry that some of the poorest areas will be hit hardest.

On Thursday Downing Street denied that London and the surrounding south east had been saved from the toughest restrictions because of its economic importance.

But the announcement threatens to stoke accusations that the north of the country is suffering from restrictions more than the south — a damaging claim for a government that was elected with the support of many northern voters who had traditionally sided with the opposition Labour Party.

Other critics had more fundamental objections. Steve Baker, an influential backbench Conservative lawmaker, was blunt in his criticism, saying: “The authoritarianism at work today is truly appalling.”

As for the hospitality sector, it believes that many pubs might not now survive the winter.

A letter signed by 50 pub and brewing businesses and sent to Mr. Johnson argued that they were being “singled out for exceptionally harsh and unjustified treatment.”

Unless the government changed course “huge portions of this most British of institutions will simply not be there come the spring,” it said.




No.1 article:
Half of Canadians 'to get vaccine by September'; Italy to ease measures in some regions – as it happened

Trudeau previously warned country would not get first doses; Italy to ease measures in five regions; singing and playing wind instruments ‘can increase risk of infection’, say Swiss authorities. This blog is now closed

This blog is now closed. Follow our continuing coronavirus coverage here

Peru has secured enough coronavirus vaccine to give nearly three-quarters of its population at least one dose when the immunization is available, a hopeful development for a nation with one of the highest COVID-19 death rates in the world, reports Reuters.

The agreements announced on Friday with Pfizer Inc and global vaccine distribution program COVAX will provide 23.1 million doses for a population of 31.9 million. Some vaccine regimes will require two doses.

The Peruvian Ministry of Health said it had signed a binding agreement with Pfizer for the purchase of 9.9 million doses of its vaccine which is in testing. Another 13.2 million doses will be bought through COVAX, which is led by the GAVI vaccines alliance and the World Health Organization and aimed at promoting equitable access.

COVAX has signed agreements to buy vaccines from French drugmaker Sanofi, Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca and Novavax.

Health Minister Pilar Mazzetti said this week that she expects vaccines to arrive in Peru in the first quarter of 2021 before general elections on April 11, and vaccines will likely be administered in voting centers.

China’s Sinopharm and the United States’ Johnson &amp; Johnson are conducting trials of their vaccines in the country, potentially allowing Peru to buy doses at a discount, the ministry of health said.

Peru has seen 111.55 deaths per 100,000 of its population, ranking third in the world for per capita mortality, according to a Reuters tally. 

In Victoria, Australia it’s still mandatory to wear a mask while inside store and other publicly accessible buildings and when social distancing is impossible. The state’s premier, Daniel Andrews, has published this reminder ahead of citizens’ weekend shop.

More than 1,300 people were wrongly told they had coronavirus due to a lab error with the government’s Test and Trace service.

The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said 1,311 people who took a test from 19-23 November across the UK were incorrectly told they received a positive result. It said there was an issue with a batch of testing chemicals which meant their results were void.

A DHSC spokesman said: “Swift action is being taken to notify those affected and they are being asked to take another test, and to continue to self-isolate if they have symptoms. This laboratory error was an isolated incident and is being fully investigated to ensure this does not happen again.”

The DHSC did not comment on whether the error affected regional infection rate figures.

You can read the full story below:

UK prime minister Boris Johnson and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi have been in discussions today, including how the two counties can combat Covid-19. 

South Florida Congressman-elect Carlos Gimenez has tested positive for coronavirus.

His campaign announced Friday that the former Miami-Dade County mayor and his wife, Lourdes, tested positive Thursday for COVID-19 after having mild symptoms.

They said they’re self-isolating at home, in accordance with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines and advice from medical professionals.

“I will continue attending New Member Orientation virtually and preparing our office to serve the people of Florida’s 26th Congressional District from Westchester to Key West until I can resume my normal schedule,” Gimenez said in a statement. 

“I am extremely grateful for all of the incredible health care workers who are tirelessly dedicated to their patients.”

Gimenez served as Miami-Dade mayor from 2011 until this month. The Republican won his congressional race in the 3 November general election and is set to assume office 3 January.

In South Australia, the business sector has called for compensation amid ongoing coronavirus restrictions in the lead-up to Christmas.

As health officials continue to grapple with a worrying Covid-19 cluster, the state government is set to implement a two-week, stepdown strategy in easing measures imposed at the start of the outbreak.

But Business SA chief executive Martin Haese says this is not enough, and restrictions mean most businesses will be operating at 25% capacity, which is not financially viable.

He has reaffirmed calls for the government to relax the eligibility criteria for the $10,000 emergency grants to help businesses get through the Christmas period.

South Australia recorded no news cases on Friday, after experiences a significant cluster and brief lockdown earlier in the month. 

In vaccine news, Australians have been told by the federal health minister they can still expect a coronavirus vaccine by March, despite ongoing testing on key candidates.

Greg Hunt says Australia’s vaccine time frame is unchanged, with expectations a safe and effective vaccine will begin being rolled out in March.

“The data on all of the leading vaccines has been good, and I’m looking forward to more positive news on other vaccines in coming weeks on preliminary briefings that we’ve had,” he told reporters in Canberra on Friday.

“Each day there’s news and there’s progress, and there will be ups and downs in the vaccine process.”

Hello all, Matilda Boseley here to take you through the rest of the day’s news. 

If you see anything Covid-19 related in your corner of the planet that you think I should know about, make sure you send it through to me on Twitter @MatildaBoseley, or email me on matilda.boseley@theguardian.com

In Australia, the once Covid-19 ravaged state of Victoria has now recorded 29 days with no infection or virus-related deaths. This means the state has essentially eradicated the virus, however health officials have still urged citizens to be careful and restrictions, including mandatory mask-wearing while inside, are still in place.

The other big news out of Victoria is the continuing fallout from the inquiry into hotel quarantine. 

Late on Friday afternoon, the inquiry released hundreds of pages of emails, call records, meeting notes and affidavits obtained in the two months since the inquiry held its last hearing.

The Victorian chief medical officer, Brett Sutton, said in an affidavit released on Friday that he was aware that the emails showed an “apparent inconsistency” with his earlier evidence. But he maintained he was unaware of the use of private security guards in hotel quarantine until late May.

Former police commissioner Graham Ashton told the inquiry it was top Victorian bureaucrat Chris Eccles who led him to believe private security would be used. 

The ex-police chief’s recollection of a phone call at 1.17 pm on March 27 was detailed in a fresh sworn statement tendered to the inquiry on Friday. Ashton wrote that he and Eccles spoke for 136 seconds following a meeting of the national cabinet.

“At least part of this conversation involved Mr Eccles informing me regarding the potential use of the ADF to guard returned travellers during the transfer from their flights and the use of private security to guard them at the hotels,” he wrote.

“But my belief as to what he told me in this regard is based only on the inference which I draw from the contents of the text message which I sent to AFP Commr Reece Kershaw.” 

This text to Ashton’s AFP counterpart was sent just minutes after the call with Eccles, saying he had been advised private security would be used. Eccles maintained he could not recall the content of the conversation with Ashton and was adamant he had “no knowledge” of any decision to use police, the ADF, the AFP or private security.

Germany recorded more than one million cases on Friday.

Until recently, Germany’s relative success in containing the virus had offered some sense of hope, with authorities putting in place some precautions that still allowed life to carry on almost as normal.

However, its measured approach has failed during the second wave, endangering the health of Europe’s biggest economy and weighing on the mood as the northern hemisphere heads into the winter holidays.

Germany’s Robert Koch Institute recorded more than 22,000 new daily cases on Friday, pushing the overall total beyond the one-million mark.

The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care has soared from around 360 in early October to more than 3,500 last week. 

 Brazil registered 34,130 coronavirus cases over the last 24 hours and 514 new deaths, the nation’s health ministry said on Friday.

The South American country has now registered 6,238,350 total coronavirus cases and 171,974 deaths. 

A study adds to evidence that people with type O or Rh*negative blood may be at slightly lower risk from the coronavirus.

Among 225,556 Canadians who were tested for the virus, the risk for a Covid-19 diagnosis was 12% lower and the risk for severe COVID-19 or death was 13% lower in people with blood group O versus those with A, AB, or B, researchers reported in Annals of Internal Medicine.

People in any blood group who were Rh-negative were also somewhat protected, especially if they had O-negative blood. 

People in these blood type groups may have developed antibodies that can recognize some aspect of the new virus, co-author Dr Joel Ray of St. Michael’s Hospital in Toronto told Reuters. 

Our next study will specifically look at such antibodies, and whether they explain the protective effect,” Ray said.

Hospitals in England have been told to prepare for the rollout of a coronavirus vaccine in as little as 10 days’ time, with NHS workers expected to be at the front of the queue, the Guardian has learned.

NHS bosses said hospitals could expect to receive their first deliveries of a vaccine produced by Pfizer/BioNTech as soon as 7 December, with regulatory approval anticipated within days.

According to sources at several hospitals across the country, NHS England said they should expect to get stocks of vaccine on 7, 8 or 9 December.

More than 1,300 people in England were wrongly told they had coronavirus due to a lab error with NHS Test and Trace.

The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said 1,311 people who took a test between November 19-23 across the UK were incorrectly told they received a positive result.

It said there was an issue with a batch of testing chemicals which meant their results were void.

A DHSC spokesman said: “Swift action is being taken to notify those affected and they are being asked to take another test, and to continue to self-isolate if they have symptoms.  

This laboratory error was an isolated incident and is being fully investigated to ensure this does not happen again.” 

Belgium will allow shops to reopen from Tuesday, prime minister Alexander De Croo said, but the country’s semi-lockdown will remain in place to bring down coronavirus infections.

“The situation in our country is improving... but it’s important to keep a lid on things,” De Croo said, warning that the Christmas and New Year holidays would be “different” this year.

So far, only retailers of essential goods, such as food, have been allowed to stay open. 

But the move to allow other shops to resume business mirrors similar easing measures in Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. 

Bars, restaurants and cafes will remain closed and people will continue to be required to work from home where possible, limit social contacts. A curfew from midnight to 5am (2300-0400 GMT) will also remain in place.

This year “we will celebrate Christmas with our families, in small numbers. It will be more intimate,” the prime minister said.

There would also be no fireworks at New Year.  

We mustn’t spoil in four days what we’ve achieved in four weeks,” De Croo said, but suggested a more general easing of restrictions might be possible from mid-January if infection numbers continue to come down.

The premier also advised people not to travel to other countries with higher caseloads and said that border controls would be put in place and quarantine requirements imposed for travellers returning from virus hotspots.

Belgium has recorded nearly 570,000 infections since the start of the pandemic, but recently appears to be getting the situation under control.

An average 2,765 daily cases were registered last week, just a fifth of the number last month.

Authorities hope to bring that cases down to around 500 per day by the end of the year.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Friday reported 12,823,092 cases of new coronavirus, an increase of 324,358 cases from its previous count, and said the number of deaths had risen by 3,668 to 262,673. 

The CDC reported its tally of cases of the respiratory illness known as COVID-19, caused by a new coronavirus, as of Thursday afternoon compared to its previous report on Wednesday.

The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states. 





No.2 article:
US surpasses 13m Covid cases as experts urge caution over Thanksgiving weekend

Thursday marked the 24th consecutive day that the US reported more than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases and the 17th day straight that the number of patients in hospital with the virus has hit a new record.

There were 110,611 new cases on Thursday, Johns Hopkins University figures show, and 1,232 new deaths.

On Friday, the number of people in the US who have contracted the virus hit 13,047,202, the university’s coronavirus resource center showed.

And more than 264,624 people have died – by far the largest totals for any country in the world.

On Thanksgiving day there were 90,481 people hospitalized, according to the Covid Tracking Project. Meanwhile, medical centers warned they were nearing capacity.

With millions of Americans ignoring government recommendations not to travel for the holiday – over a million people passed through airport checkpoints on Wednesday alone, according to TSA data – health experts warned that infections and deaths will continue to soar in the coming weeks.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) predicts the total number of deaths could rise to as high as 321,000 in the next four weeks, according to its latest forecast, updated on Wednesday.

“I don’t mean to be scary but … today can change the course of Covid for our country for the rest of the year,” Dr Megan Ranney, an emergency physician at Brown University, told CNN on Thursday.

“Infections that are sustained today are going to show up in three weeks and are going to show up in deaths over Christmas and New Year’s and are going to spread in every state.”

Dr William Schaffner, professor of infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University, warned of a “surge upon a surge” in the next couple of weeks, telling the broadcaster: “We’re in a for a tough time.”

Among the worst-affected states are North and South Dakota, Montana, Wyoming and New Mexico, which CDC maps show have all seen between 102.8 and 155 cases per 100,000 people in the last seven days.

Other states in this bracket are Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Nebraska and Utah.

Dr Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease expert, has warned that Thanksgiving could mark the start of a dark holiday season and that he expects Christmas and new year to continue in a similar vein.

“If the surge takes a turn of continuing to go up and you have the sustained greater than 100,000 infections a day and 1,300 deaths per day and the count keeps going up and up … I don’t see it being any different during the Christmas and New Year’s holidays than during Thanksgiving,” he told USA Today.

He said he would probably ditch any Christmas plans, like he did for Thanksgiving, which he spent with his wife away from their three daughters.





No.3 article:
One-year-old boy killed after police open fire on alleged kidnapper

Officers in Kawartha Lakes, Ontario had been alerted to domestic dispute and suspected abduction 

A one-year-old infant in Canada has been fatally shot in an incident involving police officers who opened fire on a pickup truck while responding to an alleged kidnapping. 

Investigators have not yet confirmed if police gunfire killed the boy.

“It’s too early for us to know why officers fired at the vehicle, and it’s too early for us to know exactly what transpired,” Monica Hudon, a spokeswoman for the province’s police watchdog, told reporters.

Early on Thursday morning, officers in the community of Kawartha Lakes in Ontario were alerted to a domestic dispute involving a firearm and the suspected abduction of the one-year-old by his father.

A resident told Global News that a woman, her son, and a therapist knocked on his door, looking for shelter.

“Some people came to the house and wanted in, for a safe haven, and there was something about the husband had left with the little baby,” said Tom Deciccio.

Police soon located the father’s vehicle along a rural country road. After police attempted to stop him, the truck collided with a police car and another vehicle. An officer who was standing near the police car was struck by the truck and injured.

Three officers then fired their guns towards the vehicle, according to the Special Investigations Unit, an arms-length agency that investigates police action that result in death or injury of civilians. The child was in the back seat of the pickup truck.

“Inside the pickup truck was a one-year-old boy,” the SIU said in a statement. “He had sustained a gunshot wound and was pronounced deceased at the scene.”

The 33-year-old father was struck by police gunfire and brought to a hospital “in grave condition”. The officer who was hit by the truck is recovering at a Toronto hospital.

The SIU told the Guardian it had no new information to provide.

The head of the Ontario provincial police tweeted his condolences to the family of the child – but called on the public to refrain from “speculation on the events as they unfolded”.

Seven investigators, including two forensic investigators and one collision expert, have been assigned to the case, the SIU said.

“The community is in disbelief that this is happening,” the Kawartha Lakes mayor, Andy Letham, told the Canadian press, adding that he could not provide more comment because the investigation was ongoing.





No.4 article:
More than 1,300 wrongly told they have Covid after Test and Trace lab error

Government’s service voids results after problem with testing chemicals discovered 

More than 1,300 people were wrongly told they had coronavirus due to a lab error with the government’s Test and Trace service.

The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said 1,311 people who took a test from 19-23 November across the UK were incorrectly told they received a positive result. It said there was an issue with a batch of testing chemicals which meant their results were void.

A DHSC spokesman said: “Swift action is being taken to notify those affected and they are being asked to take another test, and to continue to self-isolate if they have symptoms. This laboratory error was an isolated incident and is being fully investigated to ensure this does not happen again.”

The DHSC did not comment on whether the error affected regionalinfection rate figures.

Duncan Larcombe, whose daughter received the wrong result, told the BBC it was “more than an inconvenient mistake”. The PR company director, from Maidstone, Kent, said his 14-year-old daughter had not left her bedroom for four days, with meals being left outside her door, until the family learned the result was void on Thursday.

Test and Trace has been beset with issues, with figures earlier this week revealing about four in 10 contacts of those who test positive for the virus are still not being reached.





No.5 article:
Iran scientist&#x27;s assassination appears intended to undermine nuclear deal

Analysis: shooting of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh will do more harm to diplomacy than it does to Iran’s nuclear programme

The assassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh may not much have impact on the Iranian nuclear programme he helped build, but it will certainly make it harder to salvage the deal intended to restrict that programme, and that is – so far - the most plausible motive.

Israel is widely agreed to be the most likely perpetrator. Mossad is reported to have been behind a string of assassinations of other Iranian nuclear scientists – reports Israeli officials have occasionally hinted were true.

According to former officials, the Obama administration leaned on Israel to discontinue those assassinations in 2013, as it started talks with Tehran that led two years later to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), by which Iran accepted constraints on its nuclear activities in exchange for sanctions relief.

It would be a fair guess that Joe Biden would also oppose such assassinations when he takes office on 20 January and tries to reconstitute the JCPOA – which has been left wounded but just about alive in the wake of Donald Trump’s withdrawal in 2018.

If Mossad was indeed behind the assassination, Israel had a closing window of opportunity in which to carry it out with a green light from an American president, and there seems little doubt that Trump, seeking to play a spoiler role in his last weeks in office, would have given approval, if not active assistance. He is reported to have asked for military options in Iran, in the aftermath of his election defeat.

“I think they would have had to get a green light from Washington. I don’t think they would do it without,” Dina Esfandiary, a fellow at the Century Foundation, said. “In terms of motive, I think it’s just pushing Iran to do something stupid to ensure that the Biden administration’s hands are tied when they come in to pursue negotiations and de-escalation.’

Killing Fakhrizadeh would serve other ends, though arguably with less effect. When the nuclear watchdog the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) wrote up its final assessment of the military side of the Iranian programme, he was the only scientist mentioned by name, as being the mastermind behind the Amad plan to develop at least the capability of building a bomb.

The IAEA found that Amad was wound up in 2003 but Fakhrizadeh remained at the hub of a network of scientists with knowledge and experience of nuclear weapons work; that work did not continue after 2003 as a “coordinated effort”.

Ariane Tabatabai, Middle East fellow at the German Marshall Fund and author of a book on Iran’s national security strategy, compared the killing of Fakhrizadeh to the US assassination of the Revolutionary Guards general Qassem Suleimani at the beginning of the year.

“Fakhrizadeh was to Iran’s nuclear program what Suleimani was to its proxy network,” Tabatabai said. “He was instrumental to its development and the creation of an infrastructure to support it, ensuring that his death won’t fundamentally alter the course of Iran’s nuclear programme.”

Ellie Geranmayeh, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, agreed with the comparison, saying the killing was unlikely to have a profound impact on Iran’s capacity to develop nuclear weapons, if Tehran took the decision to do so.

“While Fakhrizadeh is believed to have played crucial role advancing Iran’s nuclear activities, the program is not beholden to one person – just as the IRGC [Revolutionary Guards] wasn’t in case of Soleimani’s assassination,” Geranmayeh said.

“The objective behind the killing wasn’t to hinder the nuclear programme but to undermine diplomacy.”

If that is indeed the objective, will it succeed? Until now, Iran has been measured in its responses, both to Suleimani’s killing and to the waves of sanctions imposed by the Trump administration in the wake of the JCPOA withdrawal.

But can Tehran continue to hold its nerve? A retaliatory strike could make it even harder for a Biden administration to negotiate the complex steps the US and Iran would have to take to return to compliance with the JCPOA, and open talks on other issues. The Fakhrizadeh killing may not be the last blow delivered during the last days of the Trump era.

“The problem is if you keep pushing their buttons, eventually it’s going to work,” Esfandiary said. “I don’t know if this is going to be the occasion, but certainly the calls for proper action in Tehran are going to increase across the political spectrum. The hardliners have already started. So it’s becoming increasingly difficult for the Iranians to act with restraint.”





No.6 article:
President condemns ‘shameful aggression’ amid growing anger over apparently unprovoked assault 

The French government is scrambling to dampen rising anger over footage showing police beating a black music producer in Paris, the latest in a series of acts of alleged police violence to rock the country.

Emmanuel Macron said a video of officers beating Michel Zecler in his studio was “shameful” and said that government would have to find a way to restore public confidence in the police force.

“The images we have all seen of the aggression against Michel Zecler are unacceptable, they are shameful for all of us. France should never allow violence or brutality, no matter who it comes from. France should never let hate or racism prosper,” Macron said in a statement on his Facebook page.

“Those whose job it is to apply the law should respect the law,” he said.

Earlier, the French president was reported to have summoned his interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, to the Elysée to demand “firm punishment” for police accused of violence.

Four officers have been suspended pending an investigation into the arrest of Zecler last Saturday. The officers, who did not realise the incident was being filmed, reportedly gave false statements saying Zecler had attacked them and tried to grab one of their guns.

The four were taken into police custody for questioning on Friday. Three are being questioned on charges of “deliberate violence in a group with weapons and of a racist nature”. The fourth officer is under investigation for the same charge of deliberate violence as well as “deliberate damage using dangerous means”. 

Earlier in the day, Zecler’s lawyer, Hafida El Ali, had said she was disappointed the men were not being held in custody.

“My client spent a completely unjustifiable 48 hours in police custody,” El Ali said, accusing the police of making false statements and of having “outrageously attacked him”. “If we didn’t have the videos, my client might be in prison right now.”

After the attack, Zecler, 41, told journalists: “These people were supposed to protect me. I didn’t do anything to deserve that. I want these people punished by the law. Of course I was afraid … it’s lucky I have the videos to protect me. This shouldn’t happen.”

Europe 1 reported that Macron had “seen red” after watching the video, which spread on social media on Thursday.

Macron’s reaction was confirmed by other French media who reported that Darmanin was ruffling feathers among government ministers and MPs of the president’s governing centrist La République En Marche party.

Earlier this week, Darmanin expressed his confidence in the police after they were criticised for using teargas and truncheons to dismantle a migrant camp in central Paris.

Two official inquiries have been launched following the operation: one into a police officer filmed tripping up a migrant running away from officers causing him to fall heavily, and a second involving a police officer holding a journalist on the ground while appearing to threaten him with a truncheon.

An ex-campaign manager for former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Darmanin has been accused of pandering to Marine Le Pen’s far-right supporters.

“He [Darmanin] is dragging us into a series of catastrophic affairs,” one government source reportedly told BFMTV adding: “He is clearly too far right, which isn’t LREM’s DNA.”

Darmanin also defended the police and said most officers were doing a good job. “I want to say to the police and gendarmes that I support them… The immense majority of them do a remarkable job in difficult circumstances,” Darmanin tweeted.

In a television interview, the minister said the images of the attack on Zecler were “unspeakable, shocking”. “If the investigation concludes there was a fault, I will ask for the dismissal of the … police officers,” Darmanin added.

French celebrities, sporting stars and politicians have all lined up to condemn the attack. Footballers including the French internationals Kylian Mbappé and Antoine Griezmann also expressed their anger. “Unacceptable film. Unacceptable violence. My France has values, principles and codes (of behaviour)….stop racism”, Mbappé tweeted.

Jean-Luc Mélenchon, of the hard left La France Insoumise, called for the resignation of the Paris police chief, Didier Lallement, saying the police had become a “militia”. The Socialist party leader, Olivier Faure, said it was “time to accept we have to deal with the subject of racism in the police”.

The public prosecutor’s office said an inquiry had been opened and entrusted to the IGPN, the police force’s internal investigations unit.

The latest row over police violence came as the national assembly voted to approve a contested new law that contains an article making it illegal to publish photos of police or gendarmes on duty with “malicious intent to harm them physically or psychologically”. Critics say it is open to interpretation by the police and is a threat to press freedom.

Jean Castex, the prime minister, has announced the setting up of an independent commission to examine and rewrite article 24.





No.7 article:
New Zealand once led the world on social housing – it should again

A return to a programme of mass state house building could fix the significant problem for those at the bottom of the market

Billions of dollars are currently being transferred to wealthy New Zealanders in the government’s attempts to stimulate the economy. The Reserve Bank has essentially committed to printing up to $128bn (US$90bn) of new money, lending much of it as cheap credit to banks, who then lend it to those who can afford to buy more and more houses, and thereby grabbing the capital gains.

The result is rocketing house prices, making accommodation unaffordable, especially for those seeking to buy a first home or rent accommodation. In fact, this week New Zealand was named as the seventh most expensive place in the world to buy a house.

Although the finance minister, Grant Robertson, has just written to the Reserve Bank to suggest they need to consider their impact on house prices, in reality there seems little that Labour is prepared to do to fix the escalating crisis. In fact, it’s as if the government is shrugging its shoulders, believing that market forces alone can somehow magically correct the crisis.

This is a very odd thing for a Labour government to do. Traditionally, progressive governments intervene in the market to make housing cheaper, not more expensive. Back at the start of the 20th century, the Liberal government passed the Workers’ Dwelling Act 1905, embarking on a state housing programme that led the world. Then in the 1930s under the first Labour government of Michael Joseph Savage state house building was turbo-charged, and the concept of a “home for life” was introduced.

The prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has been particularly keen to associate herself with that pioneering first Labour government, using a portrait of Savage as a prop behind her in official communications. But, unfortunately faced with the same problem, she firmly draws the line at emulating his bold approach.

The problem is basically a shortage of houses – especially for those at the bottom of the housing market. One economist has estimated that New Zealand is short of about 500,000 low-cost dwellings. This has proved a boon for landlords, sending rents skyrocketing.

The answer clearly is for the government to begin a programme of mass state house production. Something in the order of 100,000 new state houses are needed.

The current government is building new state houses – but the numbers are piffling: about 4,000 were built in Ardern’s first term, and although they are committing to build more over the next few years, this is on such a small scale it will hardly be noticed. The waiting list of families most severely in need has tripled under Labour’s watch, and stands at about 20,000.

Current state housing stock levels are entirely inadequate: New Zealand has one state house for every 70 citizens, when even in the 1990s there was one for every 50. Labour and National governments have both failed to build houses to keep up with both population rises and increased need. We have the lowest level of state houses since the 1950s, and the OECD tells us we are now trailing other countries instead of leading.

It might be argued that New Zealand doesn’t have the construction capacity. However, on the question of ramping up the numbers of state houses, the head of Kāinga Ora (formerly Housing New Zealand), has bluntly stated: “We have capacity to build whatever the government wants us to build”. Nonetheless, a major expansion of quality social housing would probably require the establishment of a state-owned construction company, using mass prefabrication.

This will cost money. Many billions of dollars. And that’s the problem – during the first term of Ardern’s government, their fiscal conservatism ruled out any significantly increased expenditure. Yet in the Covid era, the government can suddenly afford to spend billions on wage subsidies and can print billions to extend in cheap credit to the banks. The crucial difference is that the building of houses would create an enduring asset, rather than just a giveaway to the wealthy.

What’s more, governments continue to spend huge sums on the accommodation supplement for those on low incomes in private rentals, or indeed on renting motels for the homeless. Surely this money is better directed into building up social housing.

There’s an argument that dealing with demand for housing at the bottom of the market would also “trickle up” to help alleviate the problem for first home buyers. Some on the political left argue that massively expanded social housing would provide significant downward pressure on rental prices. As a result, many landlords would have to sell rentals, increasing the numbers of houses available to first home buyers, and pushing down prices for everyone.

Of course, there are a lot of vested interests in keeping prices rising. Politicians, including the current prime minister, seem scared of disrupting home-owner voters and property developers who are reliant on inflated asset prices.

State housing is a genuinely leftwing and progressive answer to the current housing crisis. Yet the government persists with its discredited flagship KiwiBuild scheme because it was designed to cost the state very little. The KiwiBuild concept is essentially the antithesis of state housing: the state is supposed to underwrite private developers to supply moderately expensive houses to sell to the middle classes. This was always a rather centrist policy initiative masquerading as something progressive. And its inherently flawed design means that although 100,000 houses were promised over ten years, so far it has produced only a few hundred.

There is now massive pressure on Labour to admit that their hands-off approach to building houses has failed. And while it’s good that there is panic about plummeting levels of home ownership, there has been very little attention given in the debate to those at the bottom of the market – especially the homeless. To deal with this, a genuinely progressive government would simply return this country to the large-scale state housing that New Zealand used to be known for.

Dr Bryce Edwards is the political analyst in residence at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, where he is the director of the Democracy Project





No.8 article:
Ana Diamond, who was held for more than six months, says the Australian academic was subject to a ‘sophisticated’ hostage-taking operation

Back on Australian soil, and safe in the enforced quiet of Covid quarantine, Kylie Moore-Gilbert faces a long road to recovery, according to another victim of Iran’s practice of seizing foreign nationals as hostages.

Ana Diamond was just 19 when she was seized by the country’s Revolutionary Guards in 2016, held for 200 days in solitary confinement and forced to endure a mock execution over baseless allegations she was a foreign spy.

Diamond said while Moore-Gilbert looked well in video footage, and is reportedly in “good spirits”, she will find regaining her freedom challenging after her two-year ordeal in Iranian prisons ended this week.

“The Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps have been practising and perfecting their state hostage-taking for many decades now, and … have become rather sophisticated in their tactics,” said Diamond, previously a dual Iranian and Finnish citizen who is now based in Britain. “You no longer see grotesque visual and physical traces of violence on the detainee’s body … a lot of the damage is internal.

“During my detention, my feelings ranged from hope to self-loathing ... it is very hard to convince yourself that you are not to blame.”

Diamond also said she believed Moore-Gilbert, an expert in Bahraini politics at the University of Melbourne, will find it challenging to communicate her feelings without hesitation or self-censorship.

“I struggled a lot with a feeling of self-guilt – for what I had made my loved ones go through, for the inconvenience I had caused ... but also a guilt of survival: after my release, I realised that I was not an isolated case and that there were more than 30 known cases of dual- and foreign-nationals still held hostage in that very same prison that I was allowed to walk out from.”

Last year, alongside other former captives and family members, Diamond helped launch the Alliance Against State Hostage-Taking at the UN general assembly, designed to “create a legal path to hold Iran accountable for their atrocious violations of human rights and the deliberate and planned acts of kidnapping and torture of foreign nationals”.

Dozens of dual and foreign nationals are currently held in Iranian prisons, including Iranian-Swedish scholar Ahmadreza Djalali who was handed down the death penalty three months ago and is due to be executed shortly. Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian arrested in 2016, is under a form of house arrest in her parents’ home in Tehran.

Several of Moore-Gilbert’s colleagues have said her capture sent a chill through the Australian and global academic communities. It was a “there but for the grace of God” moment, they said, and could have befallen any of them.

Moore-Gilbert had travelled to Iran from Australia to attend a conference in the city of Qom to which she had been invited, said her friend and colleague, Dr Jessie Moritz.

“It was not an exceptional thing to do,” she said. “Our whole job is to go over to these countries – we’re not ivory-tower academics, we go to the field, we meet people, in order to understand these countries.”

Iran observers have seen a surge in foreign academics being targeted.

“Journalists and human rights activists have already been arrested, domestic academics have already been arrested, international journalists have been kicked out, and we’re next basically,” Moritz said.

Moore-Gilbert is a dual UK-Australian citizen but she was travelling on her Australian passport so became Australia’s consular responsibility.

Australia, unlike other western democracies such as the US and UK, has maintained an embassy in Iran since 1967, giving it a deeper connection to Iran’s opaque administration.

From the moment Moore-Gilbert was seized in September 2018 on the way to Tehran airport to catch her flight home, the Australian government pursued a policy of “quiet diplomacy”. Her family, friends and colleagues were entreated to secrecy and her case remained out of the public eye for almost a full year until two other Australians were also taken (Mark Firkin and Jolie King were released within four months).

But as media and public interest intensified and political pressure built around Moore-Gilbert’s case, the Australian government said little.

Australia’s foreign affairs minister, Marise Payne, – parsimonious in her public comments on the case – was said to be central to the strategy, as was Canberra’s ambassador in Tehran, Lyndall Sachs.

Also closely involved in knitting together the deal to free Moore-Gilbert was Australia’s director-general of national intelligence, Nick Warner. A former ambassador to Iran in the 1990s, he was pivotal in the release of another Australian hostage, Douglas Wood, who was captured in Iraq in 2005.

Diplomatic sources say Moore-Gilbert’s release was not a case of a straight swap, or even of finding a third country with a bargaining chip of interest to Iran.

Rather it was a case of, piece by piece, pulling together a deal that “every party could live with, and would get the result”. There was progress, but there were setbacks too.

A complication was Moore-Gilbert’s husband holding Israeli citizenship, sparking baseless rumours of her connection to “Israeli military intelligence”. No evidence has ever been presented of this.

Outside the inner circle, there was increasing concern, and increasing frustration.

“Diplomats have time,” one person with knowledge of Moore-Gilbert’s case told The Guardian during her detention. “Kylie does not: there is a person at the centre of this, and every day she is held there is doing her damage, is harming the person who eventually walks free.”

But wheels were turning within the opaque world of the Iranian government’s various axes of control and influence – the often antagonistic relationships between the elected government, with its urbane public face, foreign minister, Javad Zarif; the hardline Revolutionary Guards who physically held Moore-Gilbert; and the judiciary, a power centre of its own, which had sentenced her.

The deal that was settled upon was complex, ultimately affecting the interests of four countries. Australia wanted its citizen back. Iran needed to be convinced to give up an asset it understood to be valuable. Thailand needed to agree to release from prison three men who’d allegedly been involved in a botched bombing attack in Bangkok eight years ago. And Israel had a stake too: its diplomats were the target of the Iranians’ abortive attack in Bangkok.

Iranian state media this week showed footage of the three men – Saeid Moradi, Mohammad Kharzei, Massoud Sedaghatzadeh – receiving garlands of flowers on return to Iran, draped in the national flag. Accompanying reports said Iran had engineered an “exchange” for Moore-Gilbert, whom they painted as a spy with links to Israel and MI6. 

No evidence of Moore-Gilbert’s alleged crimes has ever been publicly presented. She has denied the allegations against her, and the Australian government rejects them as baseless.

State TV IRIB broadcast a short video, compiled with dramatic music and lighting effects, showing Moore-Gilbert leaving Tehran on Wednesday. Wearing a facemask and headscarf, she is seen speaking with officials and travels in a bus, before boarding a plane marked with an Australian flag on its tail. She made a short statement – speaking Farsi – detailing her travels in the region, including to “the Zionist regime”, as Iran refers to Israel.

Moore-Gilbert flew home to begin two weeks of mandatory quarantine in Australia. It was understood she will be allowed a limited number of visitors in that quarantine, which will take place in an undisclosed location. She will have medical and psychological support.

Ana Diamond has urged Moore-Gilbert to progress slowly with her re-entry.

“I just hope she will never feel lonely, or think that she was ever alone in this. We are only a call away, as we have been with her family and colleagues, and we will do what we can to help her. But it’s only up from here, the calm after the storm, and she is safe now.” 





No.9 article:
Covid-19 infections &#x27;could easily double&#x27; over Christmas, Sage experts say

Modelling was presented to government before decision to allow three-household festive ‘bubbles’

Covid-19 infections could double over Christmas, scientists advising the government have said.

The warning comes in the latest tranche of files from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage). The documents were presented to government before a decision to relax Covid restrictions over the festive period.

“Notes on Festive Period” was written by the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M), which caveats the document as being based on preliminary modelling. The document contains stark warnings about a substantial mixing of people over a short period of time.

“Any relaxation over the festive period will result in increased transmission and increased prevalence, potentially by a large amount,” the document says. 

Later, they add: “SARS-Cov-19 has demonstrated high secondary attack rates in households (with estimates of up to 50% in one household becoming infected from one infected member). The prevalence could easily double during a few days of the festive season, with further multiplicative increases as new infections go back to their ‘routine’ networks.”

The warning comes as the government and Sage revealed the R number for England specifically, and the UK as a whole, was now 0.9-1.0 for the first time since August. Because of time lags in the data, Sage says this figure captures some of the impact of the latest lockdown in England, but not its full effect.

The overall R number masks considerable variation around the UK. While R was revealed to be between 0.7 and 0.9 in the north-west of England, it was 1.0-1.2 in the south-east, suggesting that the epidemic was shrinking in the former, and remaining steady or growing in the latter.

But while signs are growing that lockdown is beginning to have an impact on infection rates and hospital admissions, it could be some weeks before such changes are reflected in the daily death toll. On Friday 521 people in the UK were reported as having died from Covid.

Boris Johnson announced on Tuesday that three households would be allowed to mix for up to five days over Christmas, forming a “bubble”. However, Sage experts reveal in the files that Christmas bubbles will still be risky.

“If all households were to form a bubble with one other household, the number of out-of-bubble contacts would have to reduce to the levels seen in April 2020 (&lt;1 external contact per person) in order to prevent exponential growth,” one document notes.

The experts also caution that while forming bubbles may be better than limiting contacts to a specific number, it is crucial that people stick to just one bubble.

“Allowing people to form different bubbles over the course of the festive period would be worse than limiting them to a single bubble,” the modelling team say.

Sage experts believe that a key factor in reducing the impact of Christmas socialising is getting prevalence as low as possible before the festivities – not only to reduce the chance of meeting someone infected, but because a rise in infections if prevalence is already high is likely to have a greater impact on hospital admissions and deaths.

“Households can significantly reduce their risk of introducing infection into an event by quarantining for two weeks,” they say. “However this raises equity issues as many families would struggle to do this, including frontline workers.”

The documents also shed light on the timeframe allowed by the government for mixing over Christmas. “Bubbling would be most effective if time-limited to less than one generation time of infection (about one week),” the modelling experts write.Prof Liam Smeeth, professor of clinical epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, said: “A period of tiered measures in December is warranted now in order to help allow some social mixing at Christmas that is so important to many. I suspect a further circuit breaker in January or possibly February may well be needed because Christmas will place such upward pressure on transmission rates.”





No.10 article:
Imran Khan thanks Cher for highlighting plight of Kaavan the elephant

Pop star meets politician before animal’s move from Islamabad’s dilapidated zoo to Cambodian sanctuary

The US pop star Cher met Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, on Friday before the relocation of an elephant from Islamabad’s dilapidated zoo to a Cambodian sanctuary.

The singer, who has for years campaigned for Kaavan the elephant and is helping pay for his move, arrived in the Pakistan capital this week to see the animal before the flight to Cambodia on Sunday.

“Appreciating her efforts in retiring Kaavan to an elephant sanctuary, the prime minister thanked Cher for her campaign and role in this regard,” a statement from Khan’s office read.

Cher tweeted that she thanked Khan “for making it possible for me to take Kaavan to Cambodia”.

The plight of Kaavan – an overweight, 35-year-old bull elephant – has drawn international condemnation and highlighted the woeful state of Islamabad’s zoo, where conditions are so bad that a judge in May ordered all the animals to be moved.

A team of vets and experts from Four Paws, an Austria-based animal welfare group, has spent months working with Kaavan to get him ready for the journey to Cambodia.

Experts have trained Kaavan to enter a large metal crate that will be used to transport the animal to the airport.

Volunteers working with Kaavan say he responds well to music and singing, and Cher is expected to belt out a song or two for the elephant before he departs Islamabad.





No.11 article:
Iran vows retaliation after top nuclear scientist shot dead near Tehran

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, identified by Israel as director of nuclear weapons programme, ambushed in street

Iran has vowed retaliation after the architect of its nuclear programme was assassinated on a highway near Tehran, in a major escalation of tensions that risks placing the Middle East on a new war footing.

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was ambushed with explosives and machine gun fire in the town of Absard, 70km (44 miles) east of Tehran. Efforts to resuscitate him in hospital failed. His bodyguard and family members were also wounded.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said Israel was probably to blame, and an adviser to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, vowed retaliation. “We will strike as thunder at the killers of this oppressed martyr and will make them regret their action,” tweeted Hossein Dehghan.

The killing was seen inside Iran as being as grave as the assassination by US forces of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commander Qassem Soleimani in January.

Israel will face accusations that it is using the final weeks of the Trump administration to try to provoke Iran in the hope of closing off any chance of reconciliation between Tehran and the incoming US administration led by Joe Biden.

Amos Yadlin, a former head of Israeli Defence Force intelligence, said: “With the window of time left for Trump, such a move could lead Iran to a violent response, which would provide a pretext for a US-led attack on Iranian nuclear facilities.”

The Iranian ministry of defence confirmed Fakhrizadeh’s death in a statement. “During the clash between his security team and the terrorists, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was seriously injured and taken to hospital,” it said. “Unfortunately, the medical team did not succeed in reviving him, and a few minutes ago, this manager and scientist, after years of effort and struggle, achieved a high degree of martyrdom.”

Zarif immediately called on European leaders to distance themselves from what he saw as Israel’s actions. “Terrorists murdered an eminent Iranian scientist today,” he tweeted. “This cowardice – with serious indications of Israeli role – shows desperate warmongering of perpetrators. Iran calls on international community – and especially EU – to end their shameful double standards &amp; condemn this act of state terror.”

Other senior Iranian politicians said the episode showed only naive Iranians believed the US and Israel could ever be trusted in a negotiation.

Fakhrizadeh had been described by western and Israeli intelligence services for years as the leader of a covert atomic bomb programme halted in 2003. He was a central figure in a presentation by the Israeli prime minister, Benajmin Netanyahu, in 2018 accusing Iran of continuing to seek nuclear weapons. “Remember that name, Fakhrizadeh,” Netanyahu said during the presentation.

He accused Iran at the time of hiding and expanding its nuclear weapons knowhow, saying that Israeli intelligence had obtained a half-tonne cache of nuclear archive materials from the country. Iran has always denied it has any interest in developing nuclear weapons, saying its research was for peaceful purposes.

Asked for a comment on the attack, a spokesperson for the Israeli military said: “We don’t comment on reports in the foreign media.” Netanyahu’s office said it would not comment “on those reports”. Trump retweeted a series of stories in Hebrew and English about the killing.

Iranian state TV carried pictures of the bloodstained site of the attack, which will be seen as a massive intelligence failure by Iran. Photos and video shared online showed a Nissan saloon car with bullet holes in the windscreen and blood pooled on the road. The car appeared to have been struck from two directions. Security forces quickly blocked off the road where the attack occurred.

Iran, which reported a record number of new coronavirus infections on Friday, has been on a high security alert, amid reports that Israeli intelligence and secret service have been given the green light to mount attacks on its nuclear installations before Trump stands down as US president.

Many Iranian officials believe Trump, in conjunction with Israel and Saudi Arabia, is determined to weaken the chances of diplomacy by antagonising Iran before the US handover of power on 20 January.

Dehghan said in reference to Trump: “In the last days of the political life of their gambling ally, the Zionists seek to intensify and increase the pressure on Iran to wage a full-fledged war. The night is long. We will descend like lightning on the killers of this oppressed martyr.”

During the final months of Trump’s presidency, Israel has been making peace with Gulf Arab states that share its hostility towards Iran. Earlier this week, Netanyahu travelled to Saudi Arabia and met its crown prince, in the first publicly confirmed visit by an Israeli leader. Israeli media said they were joined by the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo.

Biden has said he is willing to rejoin the Iran nuclear deal abandoned by Trump and lift some economic sanctions if Iran comes back into compliance with the agreement, especially over its excess stocks of enriched uranium. Israel and Saudi Arabia want the US to remain outside the deal and continue with Trump’s policy of maximum economic sanctions.

Fakhrizadeh, on a US sanctions list, was regarded as the main keeper of Iranian knowledge of its nuclear programme. A brigadier general in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and a professor of physics at the guard’s Imam Hussein University, he was cloaked in mystery.

Until April 2018, no photograph of him was publicly available, and after the killing of several other nuclear scientists, a further shield of secrecy and security had been thrown around him, in an effort to protect him against Israeli assassins.





No.12 article:
Plan hatched by new ‘Union unit’ to counter rise in Scottish nationalism

Downing Street tried to get doses of the Oxford University/AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine labelled with an image of the union jack, it has emerged, as scientists and statisticians raised more questions over the press release that proclaimed the trial’s success.

The request for injection kits to bear the flag was driven by No 10’s newly formed “Union unit”, which is tasked with combating calls for Scottish independence and other campaigns to break up the UK.

Whitehall sources confirmed the request, which was first reported in the Huffington Post. It was ultimately rejected and Boris Johnson’s spokesman said there were no plans to put a flag on the vaccine kits.

Despite the union jack revelation, the Department of Health maintains it had nothing to do with the timing of the Oxford/AstraZeneca announcement on Monday, and said the government had kept well away from the process.

A Whitehall source admitted questions had been asked about the presentation of the Oxford vaccine and subsequent criticism in the media. “Of course this is an important vaccine for us, so there are concerns. But the government cannot get involved in any way.”

Asked why it appears to have been reasonable to attempt to interfere in the packaging on the vaccine but not the product, the source said: “There is a line which the government cannot cross, and the packaging is it.”

Concerns over a press release announcing the vaccine, from the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, emerged within days of its release. Experts said it could seed public doubt despite the drug being tested and scrutinised by regulators before being made available.

AstraZeneca said it planned to conduct an additional global trial to assess initial results showing 70% efficacy overall and a 90% rate among a smaller number of under-55s who received a lower initial dose, initially by mistake. Some details of the 90% efficacy regime were not disclosed in the press release. A full paper setting out results is expected to be published in the Lancet within days.

“Press releases are there for the stock market, they are not there for the science,” said Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine. Such releases are requirements for publicly traded companies.

“We have to live with it – it’s the stock market rules, and I wouldn’t jump up and down about it. But it is really unfortunate.” He said he trusted the UK’s medical regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), to assess the vaccine fully.

AstraZeneca has said its trials “were conducted to the highest standards”. Menelas Pangalos, the company’s executive vice-president, said “the best way of reflecting the results is in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, not in a newspaper”.A spokesman said: “There is strong merit in continuing to further investigate the half-dose/full dose regimen. We are further evaluating the data and will work with regulators on the best approach for further evaluation.”

Dani Prieto-Alhambra, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the University of Oxford, said there was a lack of complete data on the vaccine candidates. “We are hearing very strong opinions about this data that just cannot and should not be based on what is there, because we don’t have enough information on any of the three vaccines under discussion so far,” he said.

But he added: “There is a danger sensationalism can take us to the wrong place very quickly. This will have an impact on public opinion, but not on regulators.”

He criticised the attempt to have union jacks emblazoned on vaccine doses, saying: “I just don’t believe in nationalism in science, and even less so with vaccines. This is something of global, not national, importance.”

Stephen Senn, a statistical consultant who has done work for Pfizer and AstraZeneca among many others and has written about the Oxford vaccine’s press release, said the information published was “really confusing” because it combined British and Brazilian trials carried out over a long period during which the expected rate of infection might have changed. He added: “My suspicion is that the statisticians involved wouldn’t have cleared it.”

He said that while the study involved more than 11,500 subjects, once the model was corrected to allow for biases resulting from recruiting over a long time period in different countries, the results were as if there had been 4,200 participants – less than 10% of the number in the Pfizer phase 3 trial.

“It’s not that a press release is automatically inappropriate,” he said, but added: “The motive of publishing glory is a pretty strong one which is sometimes overlooked.”

Liam Smeeth, a professor of clinical epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said public trust would have been helped if the announcement had been clearer about the process given the accidental manner in which the half-dose study was carried out. “The western scientific model is that you set out your hypothesis and test it, and that wasn’t this process. With bigger numbers in a pre-planned way, there’s a reasonable chance the effectiveness will be less.”

Noting that the Oxford vaccine was still a “fantastic achievement”, which he did not believe had been rushed out, he added: “In an ideal world, you would like the press release to wait until the full peer-reviewed research is also available. I think that would have helped public trust a little bit.”





No.13 article:
Iranian scientist&#x27;s death only the latest in long line of attacks blamed on Israel

The Middle East is on edge as the Trump administration enters its final weeks

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh may be the most senior Iranian nuclear scientist to have been assassinated but he is certainly not the first, joining at least four others during the past decade.

In killings Iran said were aimed at sabotaging its nuclear energy ambitions – it does not acknowledge using the technology for weapons – the country has consistently pointed the finger at Israel, its regional arch-foe.

Israel maintains a policy of not commenting on such allegations. Meanwhile, the US, which Iran accuses of complicity, has denied accusations.

Israel has long cited its enemy’s pledges to destroy it. It says, often without specifics, that it has the right to defend itself by blocking Iran from becoming a military nuclear power. The country’s foreign intelligence agency, Mossad, has a record of using targeted assassinations.

Iranian scientist killings appear to have followed a pattern, often taking place as the men were on their way to or from work.

In 2010, Masoud Ali Mohammadi, an expert on particle physics, was killed by a remote-control bomb strapped to a motorcycle as he was leaving his Tehran home.

Later that year, another nuclear scientist, Majid Shahriar, died in similar manner when attackers rode up alongside him and stuck bombs to his car. Fereidoon Abbasi Davani, Iran’s atomic chief at the time, survived an assassination attempt that same day. Both men are believed to have worked with Fakhrizadeh.

In 2011, Darioush Rezaeinejad, an academic whose affiliation to the country’s nuclear activities is disputed, was shot by gunmen riding on motorcycles. A year later, Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan, the deputy head of Iran’s uranium enrichment facility at Natanz, was killed in a magnetic bomb attack while he was driving his Peugeot 405 to work.

The timing of the killing of Fakhrizadeh on Friday, so many years after the spate of assassinations early last decade, remains unclear. What is certain, however, is that the region is on edge as the Trump administration enters its final weeks.

The US president has been extremely hawkish on Iran, including ordering a drone strike this year that killed its most powerful general, Qassem Suleimani. In general, Donald Trump is seen in Israel as more permissive of its ambitions, both political and military, than Joe Biden. That puts pressure on the country to move ahead with any plans before the January transition.

Israel has acknowledged pursuing covert operations against Iran’s nuclear programme to gather intelligence. In 2018, the prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said his government had acquired tens of thousands of documents from what he called Iran’s “Atomic Archives”.

The speech was largely seen as a televised show specifically for Trump – it was aired just two weeks before the US president was due to decide whether to pull out of an Obama-era deal that waived US sanctions on Iran in return for it scaling down its nuclear activities.

Netanyahu had been vehemently against the deal and accused Tehran, which he labels a “terrorist regime”, of developing nuclear arms.

In that presentation, Netanyahu referred to Fakhrizadeh multiple times as the director of Iran’s nuclear weapons project. “Remember that name, Fakhrizadeh,” he said.

Even without confirmation of who did it, Fakhrizadeh’s death will inflame an Iranian-Israeli conflict that has increasingly erupted into the open.

In its war-torn neighbour, Syria, Israel has carried out hundreds of cross-border strikes against Iran’s proxies, including the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, but also in recent years directly against Iranian forces.

There have been dangerous confrontations closer to home too. In February 2018, the country said it downed an Iranian stealth drone entering Israeli-controlled airspace, which Israel later said was armed with explosives.

Later that year, Israel accused Iran of firing a barrage of rockets from Syrian territory at its forces in the occupied Golan Heights. It was the first time Iran had fired rockets in a direct strike on Israeli forces, dramatically ratcheting up the conflict.





No.14 article:
Grave issue: France bans discrimination against regional accents

Assemblée Nationale makes glottophobie an offence along with racism, sexism and other outlawed bigotry 

In France, it’s not what you say, it’s the way that you say it. When the prime minister, Jean Castex, opens his mouth, he is often accused of being “a bit rugby” – he comes from the south-west, where the sport is popular. Others with regional accents sound like “they should be reading the weather”.

Now the French have not only come up with a word for this kind of prejudice - glottophobie - but a new law banning it. The Assemblée Nationale has adopted legislation making linguistic discrimination an offence along with racism, sexism and other outlawed bigotry.

The legislation, approved by 98 votes to three, was the subject of acute debate in the house. Among those who voted against was Jean Lassalle, a former presidential candidate, the head of the Libertés et Territoires (Freedom and Land) party and a well-known orator.

“I’m not asking for charity. I’m not asking to be protected. I am who I am,” he said in a south-west accent with knife-blunting properties.

The justice minister, Éric Dupond-Moretti, whose booming voice is familiar to courtrooms across the land, said he was “super-convinced” of the necessity of the law. 

Christophe Euzet, who proposed the law, said accents were a grave matter. “At a time when visible minorities benefit from the legitimate concern of public powers, the audible minorities are the poor cousins of the social contract based on equality,” he said.

Several MPs, including one from French Polynesia and another the daughter of parents repatriated to France around Algerian independence in the 1960s, aired their accents. Other parliamentarians complained that many broadcasters with strong regional accents were pigeonholed into reporting on rugby matches or delivering the weather. 

It is not recorded whether the Moroccan-born, Paris-adopted, hard-left firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon contributed to the debate, but he can count himself lucky having narrowly escaped potentially facing a €45,000 fine and three years in jail for blatant glottophobie. When a journalist with a strong southern accent addressed him recently, he replied: “Can someone ask me a question in French? And make it a bit more understandable.”





No.15 article:
Iranian diplomat misses first day of his trial over 2018 terror plot

Five British MPs among thousands who escaped after failure of plan to bomb Free Iran event outside Paris

An Iranian diplomat suspected of masterminding a failed bomb attack at a rally outside Paris attended by five British MPs has skipped the first day of his trial, allegedly on the orders of Iran’s foreign minister.

Lawyers for Assadollah Assadi, 48, told a court in the Belgian city of Antwerp that their client, who is in custody, was claiming diplomatic immunity.

Without offering any evidence, it was claimed that Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, had ordered Assadi, formerly based in the Iranian embassy in Vienna, not to attend the trial.

Along with three other suspects, Assadi is facing between five and 20 years in prison on charges of “attempted terrorist murder and participation in the activities of a terrorist group”.

It is alleged that Assadi was behind a plan to bomb an Iranian opposition rally in 2018 on the orders of Iran’s government, a claim denied by Tehran.

The Conservative MPs Bob Blackman, Matthew Offord and Theresa Villiers attended the event, according to the register of interests on the government’s website. They were joined by another Tory MP, Sir David Amess, and Labour’s Roger Godsiff. Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani was also at the event.

Georges Henri Beauthier, prosecuting the case, told the court: “The Iran state conspires, threatens and carries on attacks and executions. We have irrefutable proof that the Iranian state gave orders from Tehran and authorised the death of thousands of people.”

Belgian police officers foiled the attack on 30 June after receiving a tipoff and stopping a couple traveling in a Mercedes car in which they found 550 grams of the unstable TATP explosive and a detonator hidden in luggage in the vehicle’s boot.

Belgium’s bomb disposal unit said the device was of professional quality.

It is believed the target was a Free Iran rally being staged in the French town of Villepinte, north of Paris, where about 25,000 people had gathered.

The event had been organised by the Iranian People’s Mujahedin, a previously armed group that has been taken off the European Union’s list of terrorist groups since renouncing violence.

Belgium intelligence believe Assadi is an officer of the so-called department 312 in Iran’s intelligence and security ministry, regarded as a terrorist organisation by the EU. It is claimed he operated undercover at Iran’s embassy in Vienna.

He is accused by investigators of being the foiled attack’s “operational commander” who recruited the couple arrested in the car, Amir Saadouni and Nasimeh Naami.

It is claimed that Assadi smuggled in the explosives on a commercial flight to Austria then handed the bomb over to Saadouni and Naami during a meeting in a Pizza Hut restaurant in Luxembourg two days before their arrest.

Assadi has refused to cooperate with investigators and denies all charges. His lawyer, Dimitri De Beco, said his client considers “the court is not competent to judge him” due to his diplomatic status.

The trial will continue next Friday with a verdict expected by the end of December or early next year.





No.16 article:
Fears nitrogen and phosphorus could be released in large quantities into soil at grave sites

Denmark’s government is considering exhuming and cremating the remains of millions of culled mink after decaying carcasses started to emerge from a hastily dug grave.

After a mutated version of Covid-19 was found in the animals, the prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, announced a cull in early November of the estimated 15-17 million mink in Denmark, the world’s biggest exporter of mink fur.

With a mass gassing programme under way, a court challenge to the order found that the executive’s decision had no legal basis, leading to the resignation of the agriculture minister.

Now problems with the disposal of the dead animals have emerged. There are fears that phosphorus and nitrogen could be released in large quantities into the soil surrounding mass graves during the decomposition process.

On Friday, Denmark’s new minister for agriculture, Rasmus Prehn, expressed his backing for the idea of exhuming the culled mink and burning them, while saying such a move would need the approval of the country’s environment agency. “The desire to get rid of the minks and burned I have had since the first day I heard of it,” he told the broadcaster TV2.

A majority of the Danish parliament, where the idea has been debated, supports the idea.

This week, in the western Holstebro municipality, gases released during the decomposition process started to push the carcasses back to the surface of a burial pit that was too shallow.

On Thursday, Frederiksen wiped away tears and apologised for the handling of the crisis as she visited one of the affected mink farmers. “I don’t have any issues with apologising for the course of events, because mistakes have been made,” she told TV2.

The cull was ordered amid concerns that mutated Covid-19 found in mink would render vaccines against the disease less effective. Last week, the Danish government concluded that the potential threat was “very likely extinguished”, in the absence of any new cases in the animals.

More than 10 million mink have been culled in the country, according to the latest tally.





No.17 article:
Mohsen Fakhrizadeh: key figure in Iran&#x27;s nuclear efforts who avoided limelight

Analysis: engineer was identified by UN report as central figure in work to develop atomic bombs

Outside of the circles who closely watch Iran’s nuclear programme in Israel, the US and at the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who has been shot dead in Tehran, was not a household name.

But for two decades the nuclear engineer – once a familiar sight to his students at Tehran’s Imam Hossein University, where he lectured in physics – was of interest to nuclear proliferation experts owing to the suspicion that he was a key figure in Iran’s nuclear efforts.

Born in 1958 in Qom, he joined the Revolutionary Guards after the overthrow of the shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, in 1979. Even as a scientist he reportedly retained a senior rank in the RGC as a brigadier general.

What little is known about him comes from a variety of sources, including Iranian opposition groups with their own agenda.

A landmark report by the UN nuclear watchdog in 2011 identified Fakhrizadeh as a central figure in suspected Iranian work to develop technology and skills needed for atomic bombs, and suggested he may at that time still have had a role in such activity.

One of the only Iranian nuclear engineers to be named by the IAEA in its documents, Fakhrizadeh was invited repeatedly by the agency’s inspectors to talk about his role, an encounter he assiduously avoided.

At the time the IAEA judged the allegations of work on nuclear weapons “to be, overall, credible” and “consistent in terms of technical content, individuals and organizations involved, and timeframes.”

Pushed into the frame again in 2018 by a presentation by the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who warned listeners to “remember his name”, Fakhrizadeh would have been aware he was in a dangerous spotlight as a campaign of assassination of Iranian scientists heated up.

Although details of his precise work and role have long been murky even to those who have studied his career, what is known is that he was important enough to be housed with his team for a number of years in a secure compound, provided with guards for his safety, and regarded as off-limits to nuclear inspectors.

Documents that emerged more than a decade ago, and details from a laptop, led the IAEA and intelligence officials to a high degree of confidence that Fakhrizadeh, along with other civilian scientists, was a central figure in the country’s nuclear research programme, which moved between civilian and military facilities and operated until at least 2003.

Rejected by Iran as fakes, the documents pointed to a variety of activities including research into how to weaponise warheads and the explosives technology required to detonate a nuclear bomb.

According to those who saw the trove of materials at the time, Fakhrizadeh’s name was prominent as a programme leader in Iran’s efforts to master the uranium enrichment cycle.

Iran has always denied it has any interest in developing nuclear weapons, saying its research is for peaceful purposes.

If Fakhrizadeh’s profile was low before 2011, it became even more so after the Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research, which he was involved with, drew increasing attention, reportedly being moved to a more secure location.

In the end it was not secure enough.





No.18 article:
Alexei Navalny calls for EU sanctions on Russian oligarchs

Opposition leader urges MEPs to target Roman Abramovich, Alisher Usmanov and others

The Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny has called on the EU to impose sanctions on Kremlin-linked Russian oligarchs including the Chelsea football club owner Roman Abramovich, calling Vladimir Putin and his entourage “a bunch of criminals who temporarily took over power” in the country.

Navalny was one of four Russian opposition politicians to address the European parliament’s foreign affairs committee on Friday by video link. He is recovering in Germany from a poisoning attempt in August but has said he plans to return to Russia.

He fell ill on a flight from Tomsk in Siberia to Moscow, and German specialists determined he had been poisoned with a novichok nerve agent. He has accused Putin of ordering his poisoning, a claim the Kremlin has denied.

Navalny, who has spent years investigating corruption in the Russian political elite, said that instead of targeting those directly responsible for executing criminal orders, a more powerful move would be to target the Kremlin’s financial pillars.

“There is no sense to sanction colonels or generals or people who are definitely not travelling a lot or have bank accounts in Europe,” he said, speaking in English. Navalny singled out the billionaire metals magnate and former Arsenal shareholder Alisher Usmanov, and said “no one in the Kremlin will treat European sanctions seriously” as long as Usmanov could moor his yacht in Barcelona or Monaco. He said sanctions against oligarchs such as Usmanov and Abramovich would be welcomed by 99% of Russians.

“Just target Russian oligarchs. Just tell Mr Usmanov, Mr Abramovich … ‘Guys, you are acting against Russian people, you are acting against Europe, you are all of the time advocating that Europe is something bad. So please, take your yachts and get them somewhere to the nice harbours of Belarus Republic.”

Usmanov has in the past reacted furiously to Navalny’s investigations into him, denying charges of political corruption. A spokesperson for Usmanov’s holding company declined to comment on Friday, as did a spokesman for Abramovich.

The hearing also discussed next year’s parliamentary elections in Russia, and Navalny called on European politicians not to recognise the vote if opposition forces were not allowed to participate. In many recent elections, political forces outside of a group of largely Kremlin-friendly “systemic opposition” parties have been barred from standing.

Urmas Paet, the vice-chair of the parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said the EU needed to come up with a “thorough reassessment” of relations with Russia, based on events of recent years. He said it was important that the parliament was seen to “stand with Russian citizens in the fight for a freer, more open and democratic Russia”. 

This kind of messaging is likely to be seized on by Russia’s state-controlled media to show western meddling in Russia’s internal affairs, and taking part in such a discussion was a notable change of tactics from Navalny. Prior to the poisoning, he almost always declined to engage with western politicians or panels and rarely spoke English in public, in part an attempt to make it harder for the Kremlin to paint him as a puppet of western interests. 

He now appears to have decided he has nothing to lose by doing so, and he said he was touched by the warm words from many European politicians in the aftermath of his poisoning. “I’m definitely not the first one, and unfortunately I will not be the last one who is poisoned or killed, and it is extremely important for the Russian people to know Europe and the European parliament will not keep silent on such events,” he said.





No.19 article:
Cuban security forces evict hunger-striking activists in raid on HQ

Dissident San Isidro movement little known until it publicised protest on social media

Cuban authorities have broken up a protest by a group of dissident artists, academics, journalists and activists, evicting them from their headquarters where they had declared a hunger strike against curbs on civil liberties.

Authorities said they had to intervene late on Thursday because of violations of hygiene protocols to prevent the spread of coronavirus. But the group said this was an “absurd” pretext for ending a protest that had shone a spotlight on rights abuses in the one-party state.

“They entered by force, breaking the door,” said Iliana Hernández, an independent journalist, in a video livestreamed on Facebook. “Many military people, as if they were doctors wearing gowns.”

Hernández said police had detained her and others before taking them to their homes. The group said that as of 1am local time three of the 14 detained were still out of contact.

The San Isidro movement had been little known before it publicised the protest on social media, uniting Cuba’s normally fractious opposition groups in sympathy and drawing criticism of authorities from human rights group such as Amnesty International.

The movement was founded in 2018 to oppose a new decree that limited freedom of speech, often through using irreverent artistic performances. It has had numerous run-ins with Cuba’s communist authorities, which frown on public dissent.

After group members protested against an eight-month jail sentence for a rapper, Denis Solis, on charges of contempt, security forces besieged its Havana headquarters this month. Eight members and supporters of the movement then declared a hunger strike and said some were not drinking water either. Reuters could not independently verify this as security forces blocked access to the premises.

Coming amid Cuba’s worst economic crisis since the fall of the Soviet Union, the events have galvanised some Cubans who usually shy away from talking politics to criticise the government’s handling of the situation.

Prominent Cuban artists including the musicians Carlos Varela and Haydée Milanés and the film-makers Carlos Lechuga and Claudia Calviño called on the government to show tolerance.

“We called for dialogue,” Milanés wrote on Facebook on Thursday night. “We have not been listened to.”

The activists who had already been freed on Thursday night vowed to keep on fighting. “Denis Solis remains imprisoned,” the writer Carlos Manuel Álvarez wrote on Facebook. “We cannot leave him alone.“

The government said it was prompted to take action on Thursday by the fact Álvarez joined the strikers without notifying authorities of his change of address shortly after arriving in the Cuba from the US.

A member of the San Isidro movement, Michel Matos, said that if the authorities were truly worried about coronavirus, they would not have allowed him and most the others to go home.

The government said dissidents were mercenaries who sought to destabilise Cuba. This week the state-run media published articles that said the hunger strike was a show orchestrated from Miami and Washington.





No.20 article:
Revealed: UN Sudan expert&#x27;s links to Russian oligarch Prigozhin

Exclusive: documents show links between academic and oligarch placed under US sanctions

Leaked documents show links between an academic serving on a United Nations expert panel on Sudan, and Yevgeny Prigozhin, the Russian oligarch under US sanctions who has led Russia’s recent push into Africa.

According to the US, Prigozhin runs the Wagner group, which has sent mercenaries to countries including Sudan, Libya and the Central African Republic (CAR), and is also behind a notorious internet troll factory that supported Donald Trump.

In September 2019 the US Treasury department imposed sanctions on Prigozhin, as well as a number of individuals and entities closely connected to him. It says they are part of an “international network of supporters” who spread “malign influence” around the globe. In July and September of this year it targeted two Prigozhin African mining firms, M-Invest and Lobaye Invest.

Leaked records show that in 2017 M-Invest paid for a trip taken by Nikolai Dobronravin, a Russian professor and Africa specialist based at St Petersburg State University, to Bangui, CAR’s capital.

In May 2018 the UN secretary general, António Guterres, approved Dobronravin as Russia’s representative on a four-person UN expert panel on Sudan. The US initially held up Dobronravin’s appointment as part of what has been described as a “quiet proxy war” between Moscow and Washington.

Dobronravin travelled to Bangui in 2017 with three Prigozhin employees, including the founder of Lobaye Invest, Dmitry Sytii. Sytii worked for the Internet Research Agency, Prigozhin’s alleged St Petersburg troll factory, according to a US indictment in September. It imposed sanctions on Sytii and his two colleagues. Lobaye is part of a Kremlin-backed operation to exploit African resources, the US claims. Dobronravin has not been sanctioned. 

The documents were seen by the Dossier Center, an investigative unit based in London. The centre, which is funded by the exiled Kremlin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky, shared access to the files with the Guardian and New America, a Washington-based thinktank.

Russia has been lobbying to drop UN sanctions from a range of countries, including Sudan – a long-term ally. Russia has been pressing for the removal of an arms embargo on the war-torn region of Darfur, arguing that the ban is unnecessary since the situation has normalised. The UK, France and Germany disagree. 

The UN expert panel on which Dobronravin sits has a wide advisory mandate, part of which includes providing information and analysis on the arms embargo in Darfur, as well as travel bans and asset freezes. Sudan’s government wants the sanctions removed.

The experts are uniquely placed to influence the lifting of sanctions and the opening up of Darfur for uranium and other mining, analysts say. If this were to happen it could be of benefit to Prigozhin’s companies, as well as to the Sudanese military, Moscow’s main ally in Khartoum, and militia groups trafficking gold across the Libya border.

The UN was apparently unaware of Dobronravin’s connection with Prigozhin. It said all candidates for expert panels were subject to a “review process and reference checks”. In one leaked chat, Prigozhin’s chief of operations in Sudan, Mikhail Potepkin, describes Dobronravin as “our professor at the UN”.

Dobronravin acknowledged he did a “short consultancy” in CAR, but said the invite was “personal” and he only found out about the M-Invest connection subsequently. He denied this affected his current UN role, and said the firm had not been under sanctions at the time. “I didn’t work for Prigozhin personally. I don’t see this as an impediment to my UN work,” he said.

A few months after the 2017 trip, Russia’s foreign ministry tried to insert Dobronravin on a UN expert panel responsible for CAR. This was unsuccessful. A high-ranking Russian diplomat then coached Dobronravin and helped him with an application for the Sudan UN job.

Dobronravin said his travelling companions on the 2017 Bangui trip “did not introduce themselves in detail”, or reveal their surnames. The leaked files suggest he kept in touch with Sytii afterwards, as well as with other Prigozhin-linked individuals in St Petersburg.

Over the last few years Prigozhin has sent teams of advisers to several African states. In 2018 Russian political technologists drew up a programme of political and economic reform designed to prop up Sudan’s then dictator Omar al-Bashir in the face of anti-government protests.

In April 2019 the Sudanese military deposed Bashir in a coup. The oil-rich country is now run by a transitional civilian-army government. Moscow is keen to preserve its influence. On 11 November it agreed a deal with the new government to build a naval base for visiting Russian warships.

Dobronravin said he had never written anything for the UN that favoured Prigozhin. “Any bias would be immediately seen by the panel,” he said, adding that he and his fellow experts produced yearly reports plus confidential documents. He said he was in favour of “contextualising and modernising” the Darfur sanctions regime. “I’m proud of my work for the UN. It was done with all possible accuracy,” he said.

Putin denies Prigozhin is linked to the Russian government. During a 2018 summit with Trump in Helsinki, Putin likened Prigozhin to George Soros, the American philanthropist. Documents suggest Prigozhin’s shadow activities are in fact closely coordinated with Russian officials.

“Russia … doesn’t want a democratic Sudan,” Jean-Baptiste Gallopin, a researcher on Sudan, said. “Moscow has been very active in extending its presence in Sudan in gold mining and defence cooperation. It’s about power projection.”

Dobronravin said he had received help with his UN application from Moscow’s foreign ministry, adding that without it he would never have got the post. “I would never hide anything,” he said. He said he had not met Prigozhin “officially” but declined to say whether there had been “informal contact”.

Prigozhin did not respond to requests for comment. “If they want to see the devil, let them see him,” he said in 2018, after the US accused him of waging “informational warfare”. He has denied involvement in the troll factory and has said the Wagner group doesn’t exist.





No.21 article:
&#x27;If the EU says we can’t open, they should pay&#x27;: Italian ski resort awaits Covid ruling

Sestriere’s residents agree with Austria that EU should foot bill if Christmas skiing season cancelled

Paolo Di Bendinoni’s grandmother Adelina began the family’s ski hire business in the winter of 1964, when she kept a few pairs of wooden skis and boots in her home that she would rent out to tourists as they got off the bus by the square in the alpine village of Sestriere.

In the early days her trade came only at weekends, when a smattering of visitors would travel up from the nearby city of Turin. But as the village became more popular for skiing over the ensuing decades, the business flourished.

Di Bendinoni has worked for Noleggio sci Nonna Adelina since he was 18, and now runs it with his wife. All of his cousins are ski instructors. The family is emblematic of the village of 929 inhabitants, whose livelihoods depend on the ski industry.

That the season, which would ordinarily begin next week, is under threat this year owing to coronavirus restrictions is causing much anxiety.

“I have never not known a ski season,” said Di Bendinoni. “Even the years when there was little snow, we always had business. We work four months a year, seven days a week. The village basically survives on those few months of total activity.”

Sestriere and other ski resorts across Italy are on standby as European leaders try to reach an agreement over whether or not to ban ski holidays over Christmas and NewYear period. The Italian prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, along with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the French president, Emmanuel Macron, are in favour of shutting down winter sports until 10 January to limit the spread of Covid-19, while the Austrian and Swiss governments are against it. Austria’s finance minister, Gernot Blümel, said that if the EU really wanted to close a sector that would cost his economy €2bn (£1.8bn), then it should foot the bill.

“In Italy we’re in limbo, when you don’t know what will happen from one day to the next,” said Fiorenzo Gallice, Di Bendinoni’s cousin and a ski instructor. “The way I see it, we should respond in exactly the same way as the Austrians – if the EU says we can’t open, then they should pay for it.”

Sestriere sits at an altitude of just over 2,000 metres and forms part of Via Lattea, Italy’s third largest ski area, which comprises the towns of Claviere, Sauze d’Oulx and Pragelato as well as the French resort of Montgenèvre.

When the ski season is underway, the population in Siestriere often swells to 20,000 a day, many coming from Britain, with the busiest period being Christmas and New Year.

Italian ski resorts, which between them bring in about €11bn in revenues a year, were already dealt a blow after having to abruptly close in March when the first wave of the pandemic took hold. Gallice said Sestriere’s inhabitants and businesses received a pittance in financial support.

“Some got €600, others €1,200,” he added. “We’re in a really tragic situation. I really hope that I don’t discover that friends have killed themselves because they couldn’t carry on. We’re at that level and politicians need to understand.”

Gianni Poncet, the village’s mayor, said that ski resorts would end up like ghost towns if the season was cancelled.

With 217 miles (350km) of slopes in Sestriere, Poncet said skiers could easily socially distance. He pointed to the summer, when the mountains were busy with hikers but did not cause a spread of infections.

“We’re doing everything to make sure that at least some of the ski lifts can open,” Poncet said. “That’s the only solution we can foresee, and to do it securely. If you think about who works on the ski lifts or teaches skiing, or in the bars and restaurants – across the whole of the Piedmont region, if this machine doesn’t begin we will lose €1bn.”

Antonio De Luca, the owner of Bar QB, which serves breakfast and lunch and is a popular après-ski spot, said: “There is a lot of pessimism even as we continue to hope that things will be resolved, or that we can at least salvage what can be salvaged of the season.”

Whatever the EU decides, it is difficult to ignore that the continent is in still in the middle of a severe second wave of the pandemic. Italy registered 29,001 new infections on Thursday and 822 Covid-related fatalities, bringing the country’s total number of coronavirus deaths to 52,850. As hospitals remain overwhelmed, Conte urged Italians not to ski during the Christmas holidays. Italy reopened slopes in October only to close them after images emerged of packed ski lifts.

But the president of Sestriere Spa, which manages 56 ski lifts across Val Lattea, said he was certain people could ski in safety if things were done well, and that the company, which has 350 full-time staff, had come up with a plan whereby the number of ski lifts that open would depend on what the travel restrictions were.

“Even if people from abroad can’t come, we could open 20 ski lifts that could serve people coming from Lombardy, Tuscany and Liguria,” Giovanni Brasso said. “In the event of interregional travel being banned, we would open only 10 lifts.”

He said police could be brought in to ensure rules are maintained and crowding is avoided: “We’re at over 2,000 metres high and people who come already have glasses, hats, gloves … and with masks too, I believe the mountains are one of the least risky places.”





No.22 article:
The alleged victim, identified only as Michel, told reporters he was jumped on by police at his music studio on the 17th arrondissement of Paris on 21 November. He said he had been walking around nearby without a mask, against French Covid health protocols, and upon seeing a police car, went into his music studio to avoid a fine.&nbsp;

However, the officers followed him inside the studio and started to physically attack and racially abuse him, he alleged. The Paris police force previously faced criticism this week after clashes erupted when officers cleared a migrant rights protest in Place de la République&nbsp;&nbsp;





No.23 article:
Shops due to reopen in France but Germany has tightened its restrictions on gatherings

It will have to be, Emmanuel Macron said this week, “a Christmas not like others”. Across Europe, governments are grappling with the same question: how to allow a little much-needed seasonal celebration without further fuelling the pandemic?

Some countries have yet to announce their plans, but several have already said tight restrictions can be eased for a short time over the festive period – providing people are responsible, and prepared to put up with tight measures before and after.

In France, which has succeeded in cutting infections to an average of about 13,000 a day from more than 55,000 at the start of its month-long lockdown, non-essential shops are due to reopen on Saturday, allowing Christmas shopping to get under way.

Providing daily new cases have fallen further and intensive care unit occupancy has been brought below a set threshold, lockdown will end on 15 December, with people allowed to leave their homes and travel without proving a need to do so.

But a 9pm to 7am curfew kicks in at that point, and restaurants and bars will stay shut until late January, so – with the exception of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, when the curfew will not apply – gatherings with friends or family will not be straightforward.

The prime minister, Jean Castex, said on Thursday that “we will not be able to celebrate as in previous years … Festive and friendly gatherings are especially risky.” Precise guidelines on guest numbers would be announced before the holiday, he said.

Germany, however, whose daily infection curve is falling more slowly, has extended its “lockdown lite” until 23 December and is tightening its restrictions on gatherings in order to curb the spread of the virus further before the holidays start.

While private meetings were restricted to 10 individuals from two different households for much of November, they are now limited to five people from two households until 23 December – when they will be eased again to allow up to 10 individuals from any number of different households to meet until 1 January.

“We have two messages for the people: firstly, thank you, but secondly, restrictions will not be lifted altogether,” the chancellor, Angela Merkel, said this week, adding that measures would probably continue into the new year. “The exponential rise in infections is broken, but daily cases are still far too high.”

Government officials in Italy, meanwhile, where the contagion rate in some regions seems to be falling, are expected to complete the country’s Christmas plans this weekend.

“It will be a different kind of Christmas,” the prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, said on Thursday. “Sacrifices are still necessary in order not to expose ourselves to a third wave in January with a high number of deaths.”

While the government is not expected to set a legal limit on how many people may attend family Christmas dinner, Italian media reports suggest it will continue to recommend people avoid any kind of gathering at home outside the immediate family, respecting the country’s existing “rule of six”.

Churches will probably remain open, but there is no guarantee Italy’s nationwide 10pm curfew will be lifted to allow the traditional Catholic midnight mass. “Holding mass two hours earlier is not heresy,” one minister, Francesco Boccia, said this week. “Heresy is not noticing the sick, doctors’ difficulties, suffering people.”

Again according to media reports, shops should be allowed to reopen for at least the middle two weeks of December, but travel restrictions between the country’s regions may only be lifted if all are classified yellow, or medium risk, and gatherings in public squares or streets will not be permitted.

“These Christmas holidays will be properly regulated and, unlike during the summer, there will be no exceptions,” said the health secretary, Sandra Zampa. “We cannot risk a third wave.”

In Spain, the regional government of Madrid is proposing to allow groups of up to 10 people to gather on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year’s Eve, New Year’s Day and the feast of the Epiphany (6 January), with the number of different households allowed to mix capped at three.

Under the plans, which have been submitted to the central government, the current midnight to 6am curfew would be replaced on those days by one running from 1.30am to 6am. At all other times over the festive period, gatherings would be limited to six people and the 12am to 6am curfew would remain in force.

Christmas mass would be allowed – but without hymns. Central government is consulting with Spain’s 17 autonomous regions over Christmas plans, but has already suggested it would like a Christmas and New Year’s Eve curfew of 1am to 6am, and gatherings not to exceed six people.

“We are working on a specific plan for a Christmas that will be different but safe,” the prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, said this week. “This year, we will need to stay at a distance from our loved ones, instead of embracing them.”

In Austria, where a strict lockdown is due to last until 6 December, the government has taken a different approach, announcing a programme of mass testing over the next few weeks, partly to allow more families to reunite over the festive period.

“We know it’s something close to many people’s hearts to be able to celebrate in a half decent way with at least a small number of their loved ones,” said the chancellor, Sebastian Kurz.

“We want to deploy mass tests at the end of the lockdown in order to enable a safe reopening in schools and other areas … and also to make it possible for people to enjoy Christmas in a close family circle.”

In Belgium, which appears to have brought a dramatic second wave of infections under control, officials were meeting on Friday to discuss Christmas measures and were more cautious. “The last thing we want is a Christmas wave,” the prime minister, Alexander De Croo, said. “If we are careless over Christmas, we will all suffer the consequences later.”





No.24 article:
BBC&#x27;s A Suitable Boy rankles &#x27;love jihad&#x27; conspiracy theorists in India

BJP reaction to depiction of Hindu-Muslim romance follows recent rows over interfaith marriages

When the BBC’s adaptation of Vikram’s Seth’s novel A Suitable Boy recently landed on Indian Netflix it did not take long for the fanfare to turn to controversy.

The series, it was claimed by politicians from the ruling Bharatiya Janata party (BJP), had “hurt religious sentiments” of Hindus by depicting the lead character, a Hindu girl called Lata, passionately kissing a Muslim boy against the backdrop of a temple.

The accusation over the series based on Seth’s novel about love and politics in post-partition India was the latest in a debate that has exercised the country in the past few weeks after four states, all with BJP governments, said they would pass laws to make “love jihad” illegal – referring to forced conversion for the purposes of marriage.

This week, two senior officials at Netflix India were booked by police for “objectionable scenes” in A Suitable Boy. Gaurav Tiwari, a BJP youth wing leader, demanded Netflix remove the content and apologise for “encouraging love jihad”, and called for a nationwide boycott of the streaming platform. A police investigation is under way. 

The “love jihad” conspiracy theory claims that Muslim men are part of a plot to lure Hindu women into marriage to force their conversion to Islam. It was once a fringe notion among the Hindu right, but since the BJP came to power in 2014 it has entered the mainstream, feeding a culture of suspicion around interfaith couples. 

At the heart of the debate lies a crucial concern: that there is no substantive evidence that the practice exists in India. In February, the government confirmed that the term “love jihad” was not defined under any existing laws and no cases had been reported to central agencies for investigation.

In Uttar Pradesh, of 14 recent cases investigated by police, eight were found to involve consenting couples and no convictions were made.

Interfaith marriage has remained rare and is often frowned upon in India. However, in the last few years couples in such marriages have spoken of facing unprecedented social, legal and familial persecution. They have reported intimidation and violence from extremist Hindu groups, who can target their homes, send threats over WhatsApp and publish their details on social media.

Asif Iqbal, the co-founder of Dhanak of Humanity, an organisation that assists interfaith couples, said: “Interfaith marriage has always been challenging in India but in recent years it has become very dangerous. Now we see families trying to intimidate their own children out of interfaith marriages by contacting a Hindu fanatic group who will create trouble and use violence.”

Not all interfaith marriages involve religious conversion. The right to a secular marriage is enshrined in the 1954 Special Marriage Act but many in India are completely unaware that this law even exists. 

In Uttar Pradesh police visit the parents of couples who register for an interfaith secular marriage, and have been reported trying to intimidate them into halting proceedings. District registrars regularly refuse to register interfaith marriages, and under the law 30-day notices of marriages are sent to the parents of couples, as well as posted on public noticeboards and in national newspapers. This can pose an extra dilemma for interfaith couples who do not have consent from their parents. 

Akanksha Sharma, 31, a Hindu, spoke of the difficulties and trauma she faced in trying to marry Mohammad Abdul Suaib, 34, a Muslim, in 2015, against the will of their families. After escaping from her family, who had taken her prisoner, the couple had to move cities and jobs in order to find a registrar.

“Many people, including members of my family, were telling me that I was a victim of love jihad and were expecting my husband would force me to become a non-vegetarian or convert me forcibly,” said Sharma. “It has been five years and still people call or message me to see if I have been forced to convert and if the jihad has happened. It is a myth, there is no jihad in love.”

Critics say the move to target marriages between Hindus and Muslims under the law is part of an attempt to further the BJP’s Hindu nationalist agenda.

The Rajasthan chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, from the opposition Congress party, accused the BJP of manufacturing the idea of love jihad to “divide the nation and disturb communal harmony”.

TS Singh Deo, another Congress minister, said love jihad was “an exhaustingly bigoted term coined by BJP”, adding: “The hatred and intolerance has crept so deeply that they are now brazenly planning laws against consensual interfaith marriages.”

The BJP’s general secretary, Arun Singh, said: “Love jihad is a serious problem … many mothers and sisters have suffered its bad consequences. This is a state matter and state governments should enact law against it.”

The rightwing firebrand chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, has sought to portray the issue as a key concern. On Wednesday the state drafted a law outlawing conversion for the purposes of marriage, though it did not refer specifically to love jihad.

The chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka have all declared they would follow Adityanath’s example. The state of Himachal Pradesh enacted strict laws against forced conversion last year. “This love jihad has been there for some time and it is a social evil,” said Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home minister.

However, judges in the Prayagraj high court in Uttar Pradesh this week said the law had no place interfering in marriage choices, and condemned a previous 2014 court ruling that ruled it “unacceptable” to change religion for the purpose of marriage.

“The right to live with a person of his or her choice, irrespective of religion professed by them, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty,” said Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal.





No.25 article:
President Tsai Ing-wen announced in August that the government would, from 1 January, allow imports of US pork containing ractopamine, an additive that enhances leanness but is banned in the EU and China, as well as US beef more than 30 months old





No.26 article:
Opposition party’s ‘disgusting’ protest prompts scuffle in Taipei legislative yuan

Parliamentarians in Taiwan have thrown pig guts at each other before coming to blows over plans to allow US meat imports.

Members of the opposition Chinese nationalist party (KMT) brought the offal to the legislative yuan on Friday in the latest of daily protests during parliamentary sittings.

During a scheduled policy speech by the premier, Su Tseng-chang, KMT members waved banners, blew whistles and hurled buckets of guts. When ruling Democratic Progressive party (DPP) legislators intervened the situation escalated into a chaotic fist fight. The aftermath revealed torn placards and raw guts strewn across the floor.

The DPP government’s recent decision to lift a ban on US pork and beef imports has been met with fierce opposition by the KMT and some of the public.

The ban had related to pork products with residue of the feed additive ractopamine, used by some farmers in the US to promote lean meat, but which is banned in Europe and China. Opponents fear it is a health threat and the KMT has accused the government of rushing the new regulations through.

“In order to protect people’s health and protect the bottom line of food safety, the opposition party cannot but resist,” the party said of Friday’s protest.

The issue featured at an annual protest held in Taipei last weekend, with a giant inflatable pig flown above the crowd, the BBC reported.

The government, which has been accused of supporting the ban when in opposition only to change their stance now, sees the lifting of the ban as a first step towards a trade deal with the US. Last week the two governments held the first talks under a new economic dialogue, and signed a five-year memorandum of understanding to further ties in tech, health and security.

Physical altercations and protests are not uncommon in Taiwan’s legislative yuan.

The DPP said the KMT’s actions were “disgusting” and a waste of food.





No.27 article:
EU to use Magnitsky-style law to impose sanctions on human rights abusers

Provisionally approved act will allow EU to freeze assets and impose travel bans 

The EU will take on powers to freeze assets and impose travel bans on individuals involved in human rights abuses from next month, after the bloc’s member states provisionally approved a European Magnitsky Act.

The restrictive measures – set to be formally signed off on Human Rights Day on 10 December, marking the 77th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – would target those involved in crimes ranging from genocide and torture to arbitrary arrests or detentions.

A leaked copy of the decision obtained by the Guardian says the legal act “establishes a framework for targeted restrictive measures to address serious human rights violations and abuses worldwide”.

The EU does not currently have the right to enforce travel bans on individuals as the competence lies with national governments, and its other sanction powers are geographically targeted.

The Dutch government initiated a discussion on the EU developing its own version of the US Magnitsky Act last November following a resolution from its parliament in The Hague.

The original US act signed by Barack Obama in 2012 was designed to target Russian officials deemed responsible for the death of the Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky.

Magnitsky was a Moscow lawyer and tax auditor hired to investigate a case of corruption in which a group of interior ministry officials managed to obtain a $230m rebate from the Russian state by fraudulently taking over three companies belonging to Hermitage Capital, an asset management firm.

The officials he accused had him arrested and thrown in jail, where he was beaten by prison guards. He died in custody in 2009 at the age of 37 after being refused medical treatment or family visits.

The European parliament has repeatedly called for the EU to adopt legislation similar to that enacted in the US to allow the bloc to target individuals irrespective of their nationality.

The eight members of the Nordic Council – Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden, Norway, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, and Åland – had said they would adopt their own act if the EU failed to agree.

Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which border Russia, already have such legislation.

In 2018 a Magnitsky amendment to the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act was passed by the UK parliament to give the government the power to impose sanctions on people who commit gross human rights violations.

In July, in the first use of the powers, the British foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, announced sanctions against 49 individuals and organisations, including 25 Russians ranging from government officials to prison doctors and Moscow’s top prosecutor, Alexander Bastrykin, a close ally of Putin.

The EU framework will not carry Magnitsky’s name, following lobbying by the Dutch government which argued that no specific state should feel targeted. Vladimir Putin had been so enraged by the US act that he banned the adoption of Russian children by Americans.

Alexei Navalny, the Russian opposition leader believed to have been poisoned by the country’s FSB domestic spy agency, told the European parliament’s foreign affairs committee that EU sanctions should target his super-rich compatriots rather than those directly involved in his attempted murder.

He said: “There is no sense to sanction colonels or generals or some people who will definitely not travel a lot over the world and don’t have lots of estates and bank accounts in Europe.

“The main question is why these people are poisoning and killing and fabricating the election, and the answer is very, very simple: money. The EU should target the money and Russian oligarchs, not just old ones but new ones, the circle of Mr Putin.

“Just target Russian oligarchs.”

The new EU human rights sanctions regime was agreed by foreign policy experts from the 27 member states on Thursday and will be formally approved by ministers on 7 December, or more likely by written procedure on 10 December.





No.28 article:
Organisers of BLM say findings show movement has exposed pre-existing fault lines

A majority of people believe Black Lives Matter, the anti-racism movement that spread across the UK this summer, has increased racial tension, according to a poll.

Just over half (55%) of UK adults believe the BLM protests that took place in big cities but also in the Shetland Islands and the Isle of Wight, increased racial tensions, according to a survey of more than 2,000 people by pollsters Opinium. Only 17% of the people polled in October disagreed. The polling also showed 44% of ethnic minorities felt BLM increased racial tensions.

The findings, which BLM organisers said showed the movement has exposed existing fault lines, comes alongside parallel research indicating sharp rises in the number of black people saying they faced discrimination in the last year, rising from 74% in 2019 to 81%. In a possible sign of racism arising from the origin of Covid-19 in Wuhan, the proportion of Chinese people saying they faced discrimination over the same period rose from 68% to 76%, according to polling carried out in June.

Opinium’s annual survey of multicultural Britain also found that 71% of Asian people had suffered discrimination or abuse because of their ethnicity, rising to 81% among black people.

“A particularly worrying find is that the majority of BAME people have faced discrimination because of their race and ethnicity,” said Mete Coban, the director of My Life My Say, a youth-led charity aimed at increasing engagement with democracy. “Another saddening finding is that 46% of BAME people have faced discrimination on multiple occasions, which is an increase from last year.”

White people were more likely to believe that the BLM movement, which was given fresh momentum by global outrage at the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May, had increased racial tensions, Opinium found. Those citing that concern most were Conservative voters, with 78% saying they believed it had inflamed tensions and just 6% saying it hadn’t.

Race relations experts point out that senior Conservatives attacked BLM in forthright language, with the former chancellor Sajid Javid saying last month it was “neo-Marxist” and “not a force for good”. Kemi Badenoch, the equalities minister, has urged schools not to support the “political” movement in lessons.

Asked about the survey, Adam Elliott-Cooper, a spokesman for BLM, said racial tensions in Britain long preceded the movement and that it had highlighted the issue.

“To say that to challenge racism increases racial tension is a very misleading assumption,” he said. “Black Lives Matter hasn’t increased racial tension in the same way as the civil rights movement in the US didn’t or the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa didn’t. They haven’t increased racial tension but they might have made it more apparent and exposed what is there.”

The resurgence of the BLM movement this year triggered a series of actions, which many felt were overdue, but others found controversial. These included the dumping of a statue of the slave trader Edward Colston into Bristol’s dock, and a wave of investigations into British institutions’ slavery links. A 2017 book by Reni Eddo-Lodge called Why I’m No Longer Talking to White People About Race, shot back up the bestseller charts.

Prof Kalwant Bhopal, director of the Centre for Research in Race and Education at the University of Birmingham, said the results suggested BLM had made some white people “feel their privilege is being threatened and questioned”.

“When they see something like BLM they do what they can to protect it and there is a backlash,” she said. She added that the response of some institutions, such as universities, to pledge support for the goals of BLM, had created a “mask of inclusion” which obscured a reluctance to deliver real change. This was seen by some minority ethnic people as evidence of division, she said.





No.29 article:
If authorisation is granted, those in first phase could begin receiving jabs within weeks

We can expect the very first jab on the same day the first vaccine is licensed for use in the UK, with a big fanfare. That could be within weeks. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA) will break all records – although they insist without cutting corners – to go through the data and give authorisation.

Pfizer/BioNTech was first to submit its data. The health secretary, Matt Hancock, has said there will be 10m doses available in the UK by the end of the year out of the 40m he has ordered. But there are huge logistical issues, because it has to be kept at temperatures of -70C, so getting it to all the care home residents and staff who are the first priority, followed by the over-80s, will not be straightforward.

The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) has set the order of priority for the whole of the UK, mostly according to age. Care home residents and staff will be followed by the over-80s and healthcare workers. Next are the over-75s, then the over-70s and so on. People with underlying health conditions of any age will be vaccinated ahead of the under-65s.

The first phase includes everyone over 50, or about 22 million people. The JCVI says a decision has yet to be taken on priorities in the rest of the population, whose risk of severe illness is low.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Enough supplies of vaccine to complete even the first phase may depend on the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine being licensed. The UK has ordered 100m doses, and it can be stored at normal fridge temperatures.

Hancock has said the restrictions can be loosened once all the over-50s, younger people with health conditions and NHS and care workers have been vaccinated. He has said the bulk of vaccination for those groups will take place in January to March, and hopes that by Easter it may be possible to end social distancing.

However, that assumes transmission of the virus is blocked by the vaccine, as well as severe illness, hospitalisations and death – which is what the trials have mainly been measuring. There are hints in the Oxford vaccine data that people who are vaccinated may not have asymptomatic infection which they can pass to others.

We will see the hospital numbers and deaths fall. It won’t be immediate. The vaccines are two shots, three or four weeks apart, and full protection does not kick in until at least a week after the second dose. If there is a lot of virus around in the early months of next year, the effects will be more obvious than if the virus has been suppressed through lockdowns and tier restrictions. But within a couple of months of the vaccination programme getting under way, there should be significant drops in the numbers of people getting ill.

Herd immunity through vaccination varies from one disease to another. For measles, which is highly contagious, 95% of children need to be vaccinated to prevent outbreaks. For Covid-19, it is estimated to be less, but what proportion of the population needs to be vaccinated depends on how effective the vaccine is. A paper published in October in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine calculated that 60% of people would need to be vaccinated if the vaccine was 80% effective. With a 70% effective vaccine, 75% of the population would need to be immunised.

Vaccination is likely to allow us all to travel again. Certificates will probably be required at border controls, just as they are for yellow fever in countries where the disease is endemic. They will probably become necessary to set foot on an aircraft. Some airlines, such as Qantas, have already said they will require a vaccination certificate from all passengers. “I think that’s going to be a common thing talking to my colleagues in other airlines around the globe,” said Alan Joyce, the Australian airline’s boss. There will be people who cannot be vaccinated, so some sort of formal exemption certificate will be needed for them.

For all Hancock’s optimism about the return to more normal life by Easter, it may be a bit early to buy tickets. Even if the UK moves really fast on vaccination, much of the rest of the world will not get supplies or be able to use them quickly and restrictions will probably still apply. Also, a vaccine that is 90% effective will still leave one in 10 people unprotected, so until the levels of virus in countries drops right down, it would be wise not to party or throw away the mask.





No.30 article:
The man who told the world that news should be more optimistic

A meeting with a good news guru - plus all the week’s reasons to be hopeful

However much we blow our own trumpet over here at the Upside (parp parp!), it’s important to acknowledge that we are truly no pioneers in the field of ‘good news’.

But this week we did at least meet someone who is.

Sir Martyn Lewis ruffled feathers at the BBC back in 1993, when as one of its high-profile newscasters, he suggested that news was too grim and needed leavening to stop audiences switching off. He was given short shrift, and left the broadcaster a few years later.

These days the BBC does have a team dedicated to solutions-focused news, and has seemingly made efforts throughout the Covid crisis to ensure that more constructive stories of optimism and hope peek through. Lewis remarked on this during a recent encounter with a senior executive.

“I know the BBC moves slowly,” Lewis told him, “but even by its standards 27 years is a long time to get something off the ground.”

We sat down for a half-hour chat with Lewis about the rise and rise of optimistic journalism. The interview will feature during a (virtual) 24-hour journalism conference taking place next month. Worth dipping in to.

Otherwise, this week we were greatly cheered by:

• the great vaccine hope: 27-minute podcast.

• The Indian school where students pay for lessons with plastic waste: three-minute read.

• The New Zealand couple who gave their land to the nation: two-minute read.

• Scotland became the first nation to provide period products free for all: two-minute read.

• Can Biden reverse the toxic polarisation of recent years? Two-minute OpEd.

The number of people killed in terrorist attacks worldwide fell for the fifth consecutive year in 2019, according to the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP).

The EU has drafted a deal to curb greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, against 1990 levels.

Almost 52% of English 17 to 30-year-olds participated in higher education in 2018-19, according to official figures.

And data shows the Covid-19 second wave in England finally levelling off …

This by the Atlantic is a fascinating dive into the expensive but important world of carbon removal – something you’ll read more and more about as the years go by.

And Nasa reported on how levels of nitrogen dioxide pollutants have fallen sharply this year.

Meanwhile, PositiveNews remains a delight, giving us seven ways to combat loneliness during the festive season.

We’re keen to know where you see the hope in 2021. Are you even vaguely optimistic about the new year? Let us know in the usual fashion.

Shelter got in touch to tell us about next week’s virtual carol concert, which they hope will be the UK’s largest, and help raise funds for their Christmas appeal. Check it out.

Last week, we asked how lockdown had changed your family, perhaps making dads a bit more available for school runs and hands-on parenting.

Anna Harrison from south-west London wrote:

My husband is there each morning and each afternoon to see the children off to school and see them return again … the gender balance has never been as good in our household as it is now.”

I’m sure you’re not alone in feeling that, Anna.

With all the ethical shoppers on this very unusual Black Friday.





No.31 article:
&#x27;A precarious point&#x27;: Covid cases surge in Canada&#x27;s Prairies after relaxed approach

Infections rising in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, exposing failures in strategy and accusations that officials squandered valuable planning opportunities

When an elderly couple with Covid-19 were admitted to her hospital’s intensive care unit, Laura Marie and her team made sure they were put in the same room.

“They were so sweet,” said the nurse, who works in the Canadian province of Alberta. “But they were so scared.”

The nursing staff in Edmonton cared for the pair as best they could, but their condition worsened and they were soon put on ventilators.

“They were so connected. Their vitals were the same. They had the same heartbeat,” she said.

Within days, the husband died from the virus. His wife was briefly woken from her medically-induced coma so she could hold his hand as he died.

Working on the frontline of Canada’s pandemic response, Marie is desperately aware of the consequences of resistance to public health measures. But as cases in her community surge, she has been frustrated to see growing pandemic fatigue, even as the death rate climbs.

“I worry that people are increasingly removed from these stories,” she said. “They don’t know what’s going to happen, until they might have to say goodbye to their mom or their dad.”

Infections are surging in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, and exhausted healthcare workers say they are quickly nearing their breaking point.

But many residents of Canada’s Prairies – a vast and agriculturally rich part of the country – cast themselves as a people who prize individualism and personal responsibility ahead of collective action and government intervention.

In recent months, that idea has clashed against the bitter reality of the coronavirus pandemic.

When the first wave of the coronavirus hit Canada, it struck heavily populated Ontario and Quebec the hardest. Most of the cases – and more than 80% of deaths – were concentrated in those two provinces.

Now, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have some of the highest rates of infection in the country. And with 13,349 active cases, Alberta has surpassed far more populous provinces to become the centre for the second wave.

“It’s clear that we have reached a precarious point in Alberta. The virus is spreading faster and more widely than at any other point in the pandemic,” Dr Deena Hinshaw, the province’s chief medical officer, told reporters.

For some jurisdictions, the spring proved a valuable lesson in the effectiveness of lockdowns and the need for strict public health measures.

In contrast, officials in the Prairies took a more relaxed approach in the summer and fall, scaling back earlier restrictions and boasting to residents that the economy could successfully reopen. Such attitudes persisted even after more than 1,500 cases were logged at an Alberta meatpacking plant in the country’s worst single outbreak.

The surge in new infections has exposed the failures of that strategy – and provoked accusations that officials squandered valuable planning opportunities.

“We had lots of time to prepare for the second wave,” said Marie, whose name has been changed. (As a nurse in Alberta, she is an employee of the provincial health service and not authorized to speak publicly.)

“I just didn’t think this onslaught would be as bad as it’s bad right now.”

In some Edmonton and Calgary hospitals, intensive care units are at 90% capacity and cases continue to rise. The province has abandoned contract-tracing efforts and testing capacity is near its limits.

Matthew Douma, an emergency nurse and medical researcher in Edmonton, worries that staffing shortages and human exhaustion will put additional pressure on a strained system.

“A significant proportion of our staff are off because their kids are symptomatic, or they themselves are symptomatic and isolating. Prior to Covid-19, we already had a nursing shortage. Now, many of our departments are at capacity,” he said, adding that his views didn’t reflect the province’s health service.

Alberta’s ability to respond to the pandemic has also been hindered by cuts to social services and healthcare by the province’s conservative government, which has faced a steep economic downturn in recent years.

The outbreak in the Prairies mirrors a similar trend in rural American states such as Wyoming and South Dakota, where the virus has overcrowded healthcare systems.

For months, the Alberta government has touted “personal responsibility” as a key tool in its fight against the virus.

“I think there’s a bit of a rebellious and independent spirit to folks that live out here in the western provinces, and we have a conservative government to kind of reinforce that ideology,” said Douma.

On Tuesday evening, amid growing pressure from public health experts, the Alberta premier, Jason Kenney, announced a new set of restrictions, banning indoor social gatherings and partially shutting down schools. But restaurants, bars and places of worship will remain open.

While the Prairies have similar demographics to their southern American counterparts, key differences – including a public healthcare system and a refusal by leaders in the region to embrace conspiracy theories of the virus – have probably averted a far more dire outcome.

“We’ve certainly been more aggressive than the United States – especially with masks,” said Dr Anand Kumar, a Winnipeg-based infectious disease specialist and intensive care unit physician. “There are some places in the States where they just didn’t do anything, and those places are getting horrendous numbers.”

His province of Manitoba has the highest active case rate in the country: 634 infections per 100,000 residents – seven times higher than neighbouring Ontario. In the capital, Winnipeg, testing centres are recording positivity rates of 13%. In Steinbach, the site of a recent anti-mask protest, officials have logged 10-day positivity rates of 40%.

Even with new restrictions in place, Kumar doesn’t believe they go far enough to prevent an overload of the healthcare system.

“The higher the stress on the system, the less you can sustain it on an ongoing basis. Right now, everybody’s apprehensive – not about the level that we’re at right now, but what’s coming around the corner.”

Marie also cautions that the effects will be long lasting. Before the pandemic, she says, ICU nurses rarely got the chance to form personal relationships with patients suffering traumatic injuries or overdoses.

“Your heart still breaks for their loss, but you didn’t know them. But with these Covid patients, we’re talking to them, we’re trying to reassure them. And we’re trying to let them know we’re doing everything we can,” she said. “But those are just words. We don’t have the tools to save people. We can offer support, but we can’t cure them.





No.32 article:
Bird flu fears grow after spate of mysterious UK swan deaths

Virus causing ‘high levels of mortality’ in birds, with risk to chickens and other poultry

A spate of baffling swan deaths is strongly suspected to be caused by a virulent new strain of avian flu sweeping across Britain.

Dying swans were found spinning in circles and discharging blood from their nostrils on Ulverston canal, Cumbria. Swan rescuers have taken in more than 25 dying birds in Worcestershire and nine swans were found dead in Stanley Park, Blackpool. Postmortem examinations have confirmed that six black swans and cygnets that died in Dawlish, Devon, had contracted the latest strain of bird flu, H5N8.

Brought in by wild birds migrating across Europe, the strain last caused widespread avian deaths in the winter of 2016-17. The risk to human health from the virus is very low, according to Public Health England.

Fears are growing that the virus will wipe out chickens and other poultry this winter, with outbreaks already confirmed among captive birds in Kent, Cheshire, Leicestershire, and chickens at a broiler breeding farm in Herefordshire.

The government has declared an avian influenza prevention zone across England, Scotland and Wales, requiring all bird keepers to follow strict biosecurity measures.

While the virus is particularly visible in swans and large wildfowl, other wild bird deaths confirmed this month include pink-footed geese, greylag geese, Canada geese, buzzards and curlews.

Dr Ruth Cromie, a research fellow at the Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust, said: “Wild birds are often seen as evil vectors, but they are victims of a virus which originally spread from poultry. Wild birds get used as scapegoats for poor biosecurity and people moving chickens around the globe.”

She said avian flu, like all influenza viruses, regularly mutates, and there are either genetic or environmental factors making it particularly pathogenic this year. The virus disrupts the nervous system and can cause neurological symptoms in birds, such as head-twitching, stumbling and swimming in circles.

Cromie added: “We can be sure it is causing high levels of mortality this year.”

Caroline Sim, of Flying Free, a volunteer operation to protect and rescue swans in Ulverston, said she had never seen such strange symptoms in the family of 10 swans there that died of bird flu.

“Many of them started to spin on their axis in one direction. It was terrible to see. Some of them were discharging from their nostrils and some of it was bloody,” she said. The dead birds were collected by officials from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) to be tested.

David Cash, of Worcester Swan Rescue, said about 25 swans had died. “The swans were looking lethargic and not wanting food, and doing a lot of coughing – it’s similar to the symptoms of Covid.”

The government’s prevention zone obliges all bird keepers to take measures to discourage mixing between captive and wild birds, such as feeding and watering their birds in enclosed areas, and removing wild bird food sources from around captive birds.

Experts noticed an unusually high level of avian flu in Russia during the summer, and this has been spread across Europe by wild species, such as swans and geese, during their westward migration for the winter.

Christine Middlemiss, the UK chief veterinary officer, repeated the Food Standards Agency advice that bird flu poses a very low food safety risk for consumers.

She added: “Whether you keep just a few birds or thousands, you are now legally required to meet enhanced biosecurity requirements and this is in your interests to do, to protect your birds from this highly infectious disease.”

Cromie said that while improving biosecurity was the best short-term solution, the authorities should be looking at how these viruses originate in and are amplified by industrial meat production. Britain slaughters more than 1 billion chickens every year.

She said: “We should not be looking to put every chicken in a house, but asking: do we really need to have that many chickens? We’re creating these nutty industrialised production systems that create a variety of health problems.”





No.33 article:
Covid rules prompted Stefano Bozzini to play songs on his accordion for Carla, 74

The wife of an 81-year-old Italian man whom he serenaded from beneath her hospital window has died.

Earlier this month Stefano Bozzini, who was unable to visit his wife, Carla, in hospital due to Covid-19 restrictions, touched the hearts of many after he was filmed playing songs that had defined their love on his accordion in the courtyard of the hospital in Castel San Giovanni, a town in Piacenza province.

Bozzini, a retired member of the Italian army’s Alpini mountain infantry, told the local press that he had lost his “alpine star”. The couple had been married for 47 years.

Carla, 74, spent 10 days in the hospital as she underwent tests for cancer and was discharged the day after her husband’s romantic gesture. The hospital does not treat Covid patients but visitors are banned in case they bring the virus in.

Speaking to the Guardian on 10 November, Bozzini said he had simply followed his heart on the day of the serenade.

“I did it for Carla – to show her how much I love her and to thank her for all she has given me,” he said. “I wasn’t able to see her in hospital and so went to the courtyard with the accordion – my heart told me to go. After she heard the music she looked out of the window, so at least I got to see her.”

The first song he played was Spanish Eyes by Engelbert Humperdinck.

“She was so in love with that song, I play it all the time at home,” he said. “I played others that everyone knows, one song after the other, I didn’t stop. A lot of the sick people in the hospital were looking out of their windows.”

He was filmed by his son, Maurizio, in a clip that was widely shared online.

“In that serenade we all recognised love, in the simplicity and immediacy of its universal language,” Patrizia Barbieri, the mayor of Piacenza, wrote on Facebook. “The disease broke their embrace … with a special thought to them both and on behalf of the entire Piacenza community, I want to thank Stefano for a gesture of tenderness that remind us of what it really means to love – you do everything to ensure that the other person doesn’t feel alone, finding a way to overcome any barrier.”

The couple met when they were in their 20s and went on to have three children but lost their youngest, Marco, to cancer at the age of 25.





No.34 article:
We want to hear from people who have plans to travel outside the UK for a break

With the announcement of the new tiers in England which will come into place from 2 December, we would like to hear from those who are planning on travelling abroad.

Those living in tier 3 are unable to travel to other parts of the UK, other than where necessary, however there do not appear to be any restrictions on leaving the country.

Which country do you plan on going to and why? How do you plan on travelling safely? Do you have any concerns?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.35 article:
The academic was met by public health officials after disembarking from a plane at Canberra airport ahead of a 14-day quarantine

The academic Kylie Moore-Gilbert has arrived back in Australia and will soon reunite with her family after more than two years in an Iranian prison.

Moore-Gilbert was met by public health officials and members of the Australian Defence Force after disembarking from a plane at Canberra airport on Friday afternoon.

Australia’s foreign minister, Marise Payne, has said that Moore-Gilbert will have to quarantine before re-entering the Australian community.

The British-Australian academic was freed earlier this week after 804 days behind bars.

Earlier this week, Moore-Gilbert thanked the Australian government and diplomats for securing her release, as well as supporters who campaigned for her freedom.

“It has meant the world to me to have you behind me throughout what has been a long and traumatic ordeal,” she said.

The Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, said on Thursday that he had spoken to Moore-Gilbert and she was in good spirits.

The Australian government has refused to confirm that the academic’s freedom was extracted through a prisoner swap.

“The Australian government doesn’t acknowledge or confirm any such arrangement regarding any release of any other persons in any other places,” Morrison told reporters in Canberra on Thursday.

“If other people are being released in other places, they are the decisions of the sovereign governments in those places.”

Iranian media claimed three of the country’s citizens were released on Thursday in exchange for Moore-Gilbert.

Thailand said it had transferred three Iranians involved in a botched 2012 bomb plot back to Tehran, but declined to call it a swap.

Moore-Gilbert, a lecturer on Middle Eastern studies at the University of Melbourne, was arrested at Tehran’s airport in 2018 after attending an academic conference.

She was sent to Tehran’s notorious Evin prison and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment on espionage charges.

She has always strenuously denied the charges.

Moore-Gilbert went on repeated hunger strikes and her health had deteriorated during long stretches in solitary confinement.

In recent months, she was transferred to the remote Qarchak prison, east of Tehran, as fears escalated over the spread of the coronavirus in the country’s notoriously crowded prisons.

The academic said this week it was bittersweet to depart Iran, despite the injustices she was subjected to.

“I have nothing but respect, love and admiration for the great nation of Iran and its warm-hearted, generous and brave people,” she said.

“I came to Iran as a friend and with friendly intentions, and depart Iran with those sentiments not only still intact, but strengthened.”





No.36 article:
How the Late Late Toy Show became an unlikely Irish TV institution

Annual special – where garish sweaters meet unrestrained children – airs on Friday evening

It is possibly the most anticipated moment in Ireland’s cultural calendar, a television event that draws huge ratings, unites the diaspora and is parsed as a barometer for the mood of the nation.

Expectation builds months in advance, rumours about the theme, leaks about participants, sometimes alarm that the formula may change.

At 9.30pm on Friday the theme music will play and it will begin: the 2020 Late Late Toy Show – an annual institution built around a host, his jumpers, children, toys and some indefinable ingredient that has kept the nation rapt year after year, decade after decade.

It started in 1975 as a segment in the Late Late Show, RTÉ’s long-running weekly chatshow, and expanded to take over an entire show each year, turning into an extravaganza that has at times included an elephant and the likes of Ed Sheeran and Jerry Seinfeld but reverberates because of the younger guests. Some of them have serious illnesses but they all play, opine and upstage any adults.

“Explaining The Late Late Toy Show to anyone who isn’t from Ireland is one of the most difficult jobs for any Irish citizen worth their salt,” said Ryan Tubridy, the host. “It’s like trying to explain why cheese and onion crisps are such an important part of the national conversation, it just became a thing.”

Until you’ve seen it, and perhaps, unless you’re Irish, it could be hard to grasp the appeal, said Tubridy. “It’s a grown man, playing with toys, chatting away to kids as they test some of their favourites, and making the country feel happy for one night of the year in the lead up to Christmas.”

It was Ireland’s most watched programme last year, gaining 1.54 million viewers from a 4.9 million population. Irish people in more than a hundred countries, including Honduras, Estonia and Kuwait, tuned in via the RTÉ Player.

Expectations for Friday’s show are even higher than usual. Covid-19 restrictions cancelled St Patrick’s Day celebrations and other cultural events this year, and pubs, restaurants and cinemas are shut, ensuring a largely captive home audience.

Many people yearn to connect with family and pre-pandemic familiarity. And the government is expected to announce the easing of restrictions just before the show, almost as a warm-up.

“Too many people have spent time looking through windows meeting relatives,” said Tubridy. “This toy show is about coming home, back on the couch with the chocolates going and get busy laughing. My dream is to make this beautiful.”

The theme will centre on the works of Roald Dahl, the late British author of children’s classics such as Fantastic Mr Fox and Willy Wonka &amp; the Chocolate Factory. The darkness in some of Dahl’s stories was apt because the world was no fairytale, said Tubridy. “He is the perfect choice – it hasn’t been a perfect year.”

Tubridy will dress as a fox and children will dress as Oompa Loompas and other characters. Parts of the show have been recorded but most will be live, with the host and children respecting social distancing. There will be no studio audience and celebrity guests are likely to beam in remotely.

Not being able to hug children or hold their hand if they get nervous would be hard but delivering a toy show in compliance with restrictions was a logistical triumph, said Tubridy. “We got there, it wasn’t easy.”

The host stirred controversy one year by threatening to overturn tradition and not wear any of the Christmas sweaters sent by viewers, deeming them too horrendous.

John Joe Brennan, an eight-year-old guest in 2009, stole hearts by declaring his ambition to be a horologist, which he explained was the art of fixing clocks. Tubridy’s predecessor, Pat Kenny, provided an inadvertent highlight in 2007 by mispronouncing Jerry Seinfeld as Seinfield.

Gay Byrne, the late broadcaster who hosted the Late Late Show from 1962 until 1999, introduced the tradition of the garish sweaters and giving presents to everyone in the audience.





No.37 article:
Friday briefing: Angry tiers – Tory outcry as 55m face toughest curbs

Chief medical officer appeals for caution with Christmas freedoms … Trump will leave White House if electoral college says … Romy from the xx goes solo

by Warren Murray

Hello, I’m Warren Murray and you’re very welcome here.

Tough new restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic will cover 99% of England’s population from next week, with government scientists warning that there is little prospect of any real changes for possibly months to come. Boris Johnson faces a potentially perilous battle to get the new tiers structure through parliament after dozens of Conservative MPs protested, with predictions that on Tuesday when the vote takes place as many as 70 could vote against it or abstain. Find out here which tier you will be in.

In a Downing Street press briefing, the chief medical officer for England, Prof Chris Whitty, underlined the size of the challenge still facing the country when he urged people to be cautious during the coming temporary relaxation of restrictions over Christmas. “Would I encourage someone to hug and kiss their elderly relatives? No I would not,” he said. “You can do it within the rules that are there – but it does not make sense, because you could be carrying the virus.”

Much of northern England and the Midlands, as well as Kent, Bristol and Slough, are to enter the top coronavirus restrictions tier, a move that has prompted concern from local leaders and businesses anxious about the social and economic impact of the rules – while those in tier 1 worry of an influx of visitors from the more affected areas. Liverpool and London will be in tier 2, but Greater Manchester, which has been subject to restrictions of one kind or another since late July, will remain in tier 3.

In total 23.3 million people, more than 41% of England’s population, will be in tier 3, while 32.2 million, more than 57%, will be in tier 2. Boris Johnson has said the allocation of tiers will be reviewed every 14 days from 16 December, suggesting mass testing could make households exempt.

Trump grumps that he will leave – Donald Trump has said that he will leave the White House when the electoral college votes for Joe Biden: “Certainly I will. And you know that. If they do, they made a mistake.”

In ill-tempered scenes during which he attacked journalists for asking questions, the president went on to repeat unfounded claims of fraud – but it is still the closest he has come to conceding defeat.

Mixed-up dosing error – The Oxford/AstraZeneca coronavirus researchers are taking their vaccine to a further global trial after claims that it could be 90% effective were questioned. The vaccine’s overall efficacy has been put at 62-70% in trials in Brazil and the UK. But amid 3,000 people in the UK who were given a lower dose regime, partly by accident, efficacy rose to 90%. AstraZeneca has said it will use the lower-dose regimen in the next trial. The timeline for approval and rollout of the vaccine in the UK and Europe should not be affected. Full results from the original trial are expected to be published in the Lancet soon. Keep track of global coronavirus developments at our live blog.

Airlines petitioned over deportations – Eighty-two black public figures have written to airlines that have worked on deportation charter flights urging them not to carry up to 50 Jamaicans the Home Office wants to deport next week. Signatories include the author Bernardine Evaristo, model Naomi Campbell, historian David Olusoga and actors Naomie Harris and Thandie Newton, as well as lawyers, broadcasters, NGO chiefs and leading Windrush campaigners. The letter has been sent to six airlines urging bosses to refuse to operate the flight on 2 December, the second Jamaica deportation flight this year, if approached by the Home Office to do so, and to pause any deportation flights to Commonwealth countries for the foreseeable future.

Bid to rein in big tech – A new regulator called the Digital Markets Unit will work to limit the power of Google, Facebook and other tech platforms, the government has announced, in an effort to ensure a level playing field for smaller competitors and a fair market for consumers. The business secretary, Alok Sharma, said: “The dominance of just a few big tech companies is leading to less innovation, higher advertising prices and less choice and control for consumers.” Meanwhile a report by the New Weather Institute thinktank and the charity We are Possible says the advertising industry needs to be controlled and changed to reduce its impact on the climate. As consumers prepare to spend billions on Black Friday, researchers say the promotion of consumerism, materialism and a work-and-spend cycle, and the industry’s role in pushing sales of beef, tobacco, high-polluting SUVs and flights, are all part of the problem.

Hope of cancer ‘gamechanger’ – NHS England is to trial a blood test that may help identify more than 50 forms of cancer years before diagnosis, in what it hailed as a potential “gamechanger”. The test known as Galleri will be offered from mid-2021 to 165,000 people aged 50-79 in England, the majority of whom have no signs of the disease. The NHS hopes it can spot early signs of cancers that are hard to spot and so have worse survival rates, such as ovarian and pancreatic cancer. If the trial succeeds the test will become routinely available later this decade.

Wendy Walsh was 17 when she moved to Paris to be a model. Within weeks of arriving, Walsh alleges, she was raped by Gérald Marie. She is one of 16 women who have spoken to the investigative reporter Lucy Osborne, who has spent the past year looking into whether Marie was a sexual predator.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/26-67472-20201127_TIF_geraldMarie.mp3 

Her forthcoming solo album is a love letter to formative years of queer clubbing and 00s Euro-dance, as the singer swaps black clothes and bleak moods for Technicolor euphoria.

Diego Maradona, the Argentinian football legend, has been buried in a small, private ceremony in Buenos Aires – a stark contrast to chaotic scenes earlier in the day when tens of thousands of weeping fans gathered in the capital to pay their respects. Tributes continue to flow, with fans across the world – from Buenos Aires to Bedford – explaining what the football great means to them. His former Argentina teammate Jorge Valdano, writes: “There is something perverse about a life that fulfils all your dreams and Diego suffered the generosity of fate like no other. The terrible journey from human to myth divided him in two.” Meanwhile, Scott Murray takes a look at the best and worst moments of his turbulent career.

England have named George Ford at fly-half in their only change for Saturday’s Autumn Nations Cup game with Wales at Parc y Scarlets. Lewis Hamilton has insisted that Formula One has a “consistent and massive” problem it must address with human rights abuses in countries it visits. Fans will next week return to the Emirates, the London Stadium and Twickenham in limited numbers but many grounds, including at half of all Premier League clubs, will remain closed. The UK’s cybersecurity agency is assisting Manchester United over a cyber attack earlier this month which has left the football club unable to yet fully restore their computer systems. Tottenham took a big step towards qualification from Group J of the Europa League with a 4-0 win over Ludogorets. And Jamie Vardy’s stoppage-time equaliser earned Leicester a 3-3 draw at Braga and with it a place in the knockout stage.

Britain’s economy is approaching a turning point amid hopes for a rapid recovery fuelled by an early coronavirus vaccine, despite renewed lockdowns pushing the country into a double-dip recession. Despite a gloomy November, a Guardian analysis of eight key indicators shows that the economy may not have been as badly hit as during the first lockdown in the spring. A leading economist explains why the vaccine provides reasons to be cheerful. Stock markets have flatlined a bit overnight, not helped by Wall Street being closed for Thanksgiving. The FTSE 100 is expected to dip 0.2% this morning while the pound is on $1.337 and €1.121.

Our Guardian print edition leads with “MPs’ fury as 55m people face months in top tiers” while the Mail has “Tiers of anger and disbelief” and the Mirror goes with “Tiers of despair”. “All Wight for some” says the Sun, as that isle, as well as Cornwall and places like the Isles of Scilly, dodge the toughest measures.

The Times has “Millions in tough tiers until end of January”; the Telegraph renders the situation as “34 million worse off than before lockdown”. The i imparts experts’ advice: “Don’t hug gran this Christmas”. The Metro has “The north sees red” with a map showing the extent of each tier. Meanwhile in the state-aligned press, the Express says “Boris: there’s an escape route, let’s not blow it!”.

In the FT, some diversion: “EY’s Wirecard work scrutinised by prosecutors for criminality” – here is the background. There’s a Covid story too on the FT’s front, about EU governments’ wrangling over whether to permit a ski season.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.38 article:
South Korean intelligence foiled the attempt by secretive regime to infiltrate pharmaceutical companies working on treatments

South Korea’s intelligence agency has foiled attempts by North Korean hackers to disrupt attempts to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, according to officials.

Ha Tae-keung, a conservative member of the national assembly who was briefed by intelligence officials, said attempts by the North to target South Korean drugmakers had failed, but did not identify the companies involved.

His claims came a week after Microsoft said three hacker groups working for the Russian and North Korean governments had tried to break into the networks of seven leading pharmaceutical companies and vaccine researchers in South Korea, Canada, France, India and the US.

It did not name the firms, but said most had vaccine candidates in various stages of clinical trials.

Most of the hacking attempts were designed to steal the login and other details of people associated with the pharmaceutical companies.

Posing as representatives of the World Health Organisation, members of two groups of North Korean hackers attempted to steal information, Tom Burt, Microsoft’s vice president for customer security and trust, wrote in a blog post last week.

“The majority of these attacks were blocked by security protections built into our products,” Burt added. “We’ve notified all organisations targeted, and where attacks have been successful, we’ve offered help.”

Ha did not offer details of how South Korean intelligence officials had frustrated the hacking attempts.

The Yonhap news agency said the North Korean state is thought to employ as many as 6,000 hackers, with most of them based in Russia, China and other countries.

The regime has been implicated in cyberattacks targeting banks and financial institutions, as well as defence secrets and even gaming sites.

Hackers from North Korea are also thought to have been behind cyber-attacks against the National Health Service in 2017 that left NHS staff locked out of computer systems and caused disruption to operation schedules and ambulance call-outs.





No.39 article:
Samoa records its first Covid-19 case – imported from Australia

A repatriation flight has brought the first case to the Pacific archipelago, which has successfully kept the virus from its shores for 11 months

Samoa has confirmed its first case of coronavirus – a case imported from Australia – after nearly 11 months keeping Covid from its shores.

The positive case was detected in a 70-year-old Samoan citizen who travelled to Apia from Melbourne, landing in the capital on a repatriation flight on 13 November.

“We confirm that there is one positive case after we tested all 274 passengers in quarantine yesterday, in view of the end of their quarantine period tomorrow,” the chief executive of Samoa’s ministry of health, Leausa Dr Take Naseri told a press conference on Friday.

Earlier in the week, there’d been significant confusion over whether Samoa had recorded a case of Covid-19.

A sailor who had been on the same flight back to Samoa had initially tested positive, but this was later inconclusive.

“The sailor on his left nostril tested positive and on his right one tested negative,” Samoa’s prime minister Tuila’epa Sailele Malielegaoi declared on television.

Naseri said the 70-year-old positive case and his wife have been moved to a dedicated Covid-19 isolation ward at the Tupua Tamasese Meaole II Hospital.

“His wife tested negative. He has an underlying condition, but at this time, he has no symptoms, no fever, cough, and displays no symptoms like pneumonia and flu.”

Naseri said healthcare staff, hotel employees, and airport workers had been placed on high alert over potential interactions with passengers currently quarantined.

Samoa has now moved to alert level 1 on its national risk matrix, with the public asked to practice social distancing and wear face masks.

After months keeping the virus from the archipelago’s shores, the confirmation of a positive case has engendered a sense of disquiet, if not panic, in the Samoan capital. Security guards outside government buildings are asking people to wear masks, and dispensing hand sanitise – lifestyle changes familiar around the world for months now, but new to Samoans.

Like many Pacific nations, Samoa quickly shut its borders as the pandemic began to spread, leveraging its geographic isolation to keep the virus out.

Many Pacific nations have fragile public health systems, and populations with significant levels of comorbidities. There remain fears an unchecked outbreak could quickly overwhelm any medical response.

But the isolation has devastated Pacific economies, leading to calls from business leaders, particularly in tourism-dependent countries, to relax restrictions. Governments, too, have been torn between the imperative to repatriate thousands of citizens stranded abroad, and keeping their islands free from the virus.

Siligatusa Pa’ipa’i Fatialofa, the mayor of Tanugamanono village on the outskirts of Apia and a security officer at the airport, said he was surprised by news of a positive case in Samoa.

“I am very concerned and worried for my village. I just want to get home to my wife and kids. I will urge my village to respect the public health notices and rules as set out by our government, so that we remain safe.”





No.40 article:
Australians stranded in San Francisco to come home, as Labor accuses government of failing returnees

The 35 Australians left in limbo after a mechanical failure on their United Airlines flight will be allowed home immediately

A group of 35 Australians stranded in San Francisco by a cancelled United Airlines flight will be allowed to return home immediately after the infrastructure department intervened, revising arrival caps.

Despite the reprieve, the Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, has accused the government of failing the estimated 36,785 Australians stranded overseas by not increasing quarantine capacity or helping them after flight cancellations.

Despite Scott Morrison’s suggestion that all 26,700 Australians overseas registered by mid-September could be home by Christmas, details of 10 new Qantas repatriation flights reveal just one will reach Australia in time for Christmas at home, with passengers of a further three to spend the holiday in hotel quarantine.

At a press conference in Sydney, Albanese drew attention to the case of United Airlines flight UA863, which was due to depart from San Francisco overnight but was cancelled due a mechanical issue, stranding 30 to 35 Australian passengers.

Passengers were initially told that due to the arrival cap the airline could not guarantee they would be rebooked on a following flight, leaving them facing the prospect of either paying up to $19,000 for business class flights or waiting until January to fly.

The infrastructure department revised the airline’s cap so passengers could be rebooked on a flight to arrive on 28 November.

A United Airlines spokesperson told Guardian Australia it had “received approval from the relevant government authorities to make an exemption to Australia’s capacity restrictions”.

“We are contacting the customers to notify them and assist in scheduling their journey home.”

Albanese said he had spoken to one passenger, Luke, who had flown from New York but was told he would be unable to come to Australia until 20 January, despite there being space on the flight the following day.

The Labor leader said he had contacted the deputy prime minister, Michael McCormack, arguing it was “nonsensical that this could not be resolved”.

Although the issue was resolved before his press conference on Friday, Albanese said the uncertainty for Luke and those stuck in the hotel had caused “a great deal of distress for him and his fellow Australians” and many other Australians with cancelled flights were not so lucky.

“It shouldn’t take the intervention of the leader of the Labor party or shadow ministers Kristina Keneally or Penny Wong to get individual Australians home.

“Why is it that the government doesn’t have systems in place to deal with these issues? It’s not good enough.”

On Friday, Qantas released details of 10 government-facilitated flights to bring Australians from London, Frankfurt, Paris, Chennai and New Delhi to Darwin, where they will quarantine.

One flight from London on 30 November will see passengers home by Christmas, but three flights from Frankfurt, Chennai and Paris arrive in mid-December, meaning their passengers will spend Christmas in hotel quarantine.

Six of the flights take place after Christmas, with the last of the flights leaving New Delhi at the end of February.

In September, Scott Morrison held out hope that 26,700 Australians registered to come home would be able to do so by Christmas.

But on Thursday department of foreign affairs and trade officials revealed that although 35,000 Australians have returned home since then, only 14,000 were registered with the department, meaning more than 12,000 from the September cohort are still overseas.

After national cabinet declared alternatives to hotel quarantine were unsafe, Australia’s arrival cap will only increase when Melbourne resumes hotel quarantine on 7 December.

Australia is currently accepting 5,025 arrivals a week through Sydney, Brisbane and Perth after the suspension of quarantine in Adelaide and Melbourne, although Darwin, Hobart and Canberra act as surge capacity for special repatriation flights.

The Howard Springs facility near Darwin, which has already accommodated 500 people a fortnight under a deal between the federal and Northern Territory governments, will soon increase capacity by a further 500.

On Friday, the health minister, Greg Hunt, said the federal government was “very close to concluding an agreement with the Northern Territory to double the capacity for Howard Springs … to bring home more Australians earlier”.

But Albanese told reporters that the quarantine review conducted by former health secretary Jane Halton had concluded “the federal government needs to assume more responsibility for quarantine, and yet none of that has happened”.

At a Covid-19 Senate inquiry hearing on Thursday, shadow home affairs minister Kristina Keneally argued the thrust of the recommendation was the commonwealth should set up new quarantine facilities rather than relying on those run by states and territories.

The Australian Human Rights Commission has warned Australia’s travel cap may breach international law obligations regarding reunifying children with their families and allowing citizens to travel home.





No.41 article:
China&#x27;s LGBTQ+ community seize census chance to stand up and be counted

The once-in-a-decade population survey has enabled same-sex couples to register their status

China’s LGBTQ+ community has seized a once-in-a-decade chance to be counted with the launch of the nationwide government census.

More than seven million workers have been going door to door across China this month, on a mission to capture the demographic changes among its 1.4 billion people. Guangzhou-based LGBTQ+ Rights Advocacy China is calling on same sex couples to declare the status of their relationship. The campaign, under the tag line, “they are not my roommate, they are my partner,” aims to get Chinese policymakers to pay attention to their community.

“Usually the LGBTQ+ community in China is invisible in terms of policy making and social life. We hope that through this the government will consider the needs of the LGBTQ+ community as a part of the Chinese population when it makes policies in the future,” said Peng Yanhui, director of the group leading the effort. “Through the census this community can be made visible.”

When census-takers in Guangzhou came to the door of Ah Qiang, an LGBTQ+ activist, the questioner ticked “other” for Ah Qiang’s partner’s “relationship to the head of the household.” In a space on the form, the census-taker hand-wrote “couple”.

While Ah Qiang feels a little upset at labelling the most important person in his life as “other”, he is happy that he answered honestly. “It took a lot of courage and I hope others can also speak out proudly rather than hide.”

Same-sex couples in China often obfuscate the status of their relationships to others by describing their partners as roommates. According to a UNDP survey in 2016, just 5% of the more than 28,000 people polled had come out to people outside of their families, and less than 15% had told their families.

China decriminalised homosexuality in 1997 and in 2001 it was removed from the official list of psychiatric disorders. China still does not recognise same-sex marriages and last year a spokesperson for China’s legal affairs commission said the rule suited its “national condition and historical and cultural traditions”.

Last year Weibo cracked down on any LGBTQ+ content and the year before, the e-commerce site Taobao took down rainbow-themed products. At the end of 2015, content related to homosexuality was banned on Chinese television programmes.

But in the meantime, the Chinese public has grown more supportive of LGBTQ+ rights. The legalisation of same-sex marriage was one of the top requests for changes to China’s civil code, which was passed earlier this year. In an online survey by the local media company Ifeng, more than 67% of roughly 10 million people online said they supported legalising same sex marriage.

The “they are not my roommate, they are my partner,” campaign has gained traction on social media where dozens of internet users have left comments pledging to declare their status on the census. “Only after we speak can we be seen,” several said, under a WeChat post by the LGBTQ+ rights advocacy group.

“I have decided to cherish the opportunity of this once-in-a-decade census and say bravely that I live with my girlfriend,” another wrote.

It is not clear that the data from their efforts will inform the census. China’s statistics bureau told Reuters that any additional information beyond the predefined responses for the “relationship to head of household” category would not be recorded.

Still, those who came out on the census feel that they have achieved something. Lauren, 26, who works for a tech company in Shanghai and lives with her girlfriend, said: “At first I didn’t feel like I was speaking up when the census-takers came. But now looking back, I think I was quite brave.”





No.42 article:
Virus spread in France showing signs of slowing – as it happened

Daily cases continue to fall in France; health campaigners fear Africa will have to wait until mid-2021 for vaccine; weddings banned and cafes closed in Croatia

We’re closing this blog now but you can carry on monitoring all the latest developments at our new blog here. Thanks for reading.

That’s all from me, Jessica Murray, today - thanks for following along.

I’ll leave you with this story of the Austrian village which has renamed itself Fugging after years of ridicule for its previous - more explicit in English - name. 

Britain has asked its medicines regulator to assess Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate for temporary supply, a step towards beginning a rollout before the end of the year.

AstraZeneca expects 4m doses to be available in Britain by the end of next month, and the health minister, Matt Hancock, is targeting the rollout to begin before Christmas.

“We have formally asked the regulator to assess the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, to understand the data and determine whether it meets rigorous safety standards,” Hancock said in a statement.

“This letter is an important step towards deploying a vaccine as quickly as safely possible.”

Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is already assessing the vaccine in a “rolling review” as data comes in on safety and efficacy.

Hancock has also asked the MHRA to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech candidate after it was shown to be 95% effective.

Oxford and AstraZeneca published interim efficacy results on Monday which showed that the vaccine could be 90% effective when given as a half dose followed by a full dose.

Questions have been raised about the Oxford/AstraZeneca data and the robustness of that result, though the MHRA approved the use of the half dose/full dose regime a subgroup received in the trial.

Britain’s top science adviser said on Thursday the interim results showed the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine worked.

“The headline result is the vaccine works and that’s very exciting,” Patrick Vallance said. Chief medical officer Chris Whitty said it was up to the regulator to make an assessment.

Covid grief is worse than other types of grief, according to the first findings of UK-wide research into how people have coped with the deaths of loved ones during the pandemic.

Family and friends bereaved by coronavirus experienced “greatly increased negative experiences” and showed higher grief and support needs compared to people suffering the loss of loved ones from other illnesses, including cancer, researchers at Cardiff and Bristol universities found.

Examining more than 500 deaths since mid-March, around half from Covid, they discovered that Covid-bereaved people were less likely to have been able to say goodbye to loved ones, less likely to have visited them prior to death and less likely to have had contact with friends and family after their bereavement.

There have been more than 70,000 excess deaths in the UK during the pandemic, adding to an estimated 450,000 which would have normally occurred over the nine months, the report’s authors said. On the basis that a typical person dying leaves five people bereaved, they estimate 2.6 million people have been bereaved in the UK “at a time of profound disruption to our social support networks as well as intense pressure on health and social care”.

The study, which will continue gathering evidence until the end of December, found 70% of bereaved people whose loved one died of a confirmed Covid-19 infection had limited contact with them in the last days of their life, 85% were unable to say goodbye as they would have liked, and 75% experienced social isolation and loneliness. 

By contrast 43% of people whose loved ones died of cancer over the same period had limited contact, 39% were unable to say proper goodbyes and 63% experienced loneliness.

Australia’s second-largest state, once the country’s Covid-19 hotspot, has gone 28 days without detecting any new infections, a benchmark widely cited as eliminating the virus from the community.

The state also has zero active cases after the last Covid-19 patient was discharged from hospital this week, a far cry from August when Victoria recorded more than 700 cases in one day and active infections totalled nearly 8,000.

The spread of the virus was only contained after a lockdown lasting more than 100 days, leaving some 5 million people in Melbourne, Australia’s second largest city, largely confined to their homes.

While the lockdown has seen infections wane, it slowed Australia’s economic recovery from its first recession in three decades after large swathes of the country’s economy were shut down in March.

Australia’s economy shrank 7% in the three months to the end of June, the biggest quarterly decline since records began in 1959. The unemployment rate hit a 22-year high of 7.5% in July as businesses and borders closed to deal with the coronavirus.

Still, Australia’s nearly 28,000 Covid-19 infections recorded to date, according to health ministry data, are far fewer than in many other developed countries. Victoria accounts for more than 90% of the country’s 905 deaths.

The US airline Delta has announced the first “quarantine-free” transatlantic flights, with pre-departure Covid testing enabling passengers to escape 14 days’ isolation on arrival in Italy.

The trial flights will start next month between Atlanta and Rome, the first of the type of transatlantic corridor that UK airlines have been seeking to establish to open up travel on their most lucrative routes.

Passengers must test negative three times: first, a PCR test will be taken in the 72 hours prior to departure, then a rapid test before boarding in Atlanta, and a further rapid test on arrival at Fiumicino airport in Rome.

The trial, starting on relaunched services from 19 December, will open up Italy to US citizens permitted to travel for essential reasons, such as work, health and education. Returning citizens must take a rapid test at Rome-Fiumicino before departure to the US, which has barred foreign nationals from flying in from the EU.

Delta’s president, Steve Sear, said such tests were the “best path for resuming international travel safely and without quarantine until vaccinations are widely in place”.

Donald Trump has said he will leave the White House if the electoral college votes for president-elect Joe Biden, the closest he has come to conceding the 3 November election, even as he repeated his unfounded claims of massive voter fraud.

Speaking to reporters on the Thanksgiving holiday, Republican Trump said if Democrat Biden - who is due to be sworn in on 20 January - is certified the election winner by the electoral college, he will depart the White House.

But Trump said it would be hard for him to concede under the current circumstances and declined to say whether he would attend Biden’s inauguration.

“This election was a fraud,” Trump insisted in a sometimes rambling discourse at the White House, while continuing to offer no concrete evidence of widespread voting irregularities. 

Biden won the election with 306 electoral college votes - many more than the 270 required - to Trump’s 232, and the electors are scheduled to meet on 14 December to formalise the outcome. Biden also leads Trump by more than 6 million in the popular vote tally.

Trump has so far refused to fully acknowledge his defeat, though last week - with mounting pressure from his own Republican ranks - he agreed to let Biden’s transition process officially proceed.

Asked if he would leave the White House if the electoral college votes for Biden, Trump said: “Certainly I will. Certainly I will. And you know that.”

“But I think that there will be a lot of things happening between now and the 20 January. A lot of things,” he said. “Massive fraud has been found. We’re like a third world country.”

Desperate efforts by Trump and his aides to overturn results in key states, either by lawsuits or by pressuring state legislators, have failed, and he is running out of options.

In the US, a candidate becomes president by securing the most ‘electoral’ votes rather than by winning a majority of the national popular vote. Electors, allotted to the 50 states and the District of Columbia largely based on their population, are party loyalists who pledge to support the candidate who won the popular vote in their state.

US president Donald Trump said deliveries of a coronavirus vaccine would begin next week and the week after.

Speaking to US troops overseas via video link to mark the Thanksgiving holiday, Trump said the vaccine would initially be sent to frontline workers, medical personnel and senior citizens. 

Brazil registered 37,614 additional cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours and 691 related deaths, the health ministry said.

The South American country has now registered 6,204,220 total confirmed coronavirus cases and 171,460 deaths.

AstraZeneca is working with regulators to investigate a lower dosage of its vaccine that performed better than a full dosage, a spokesman for the company said, after its chief executive was quoted as saying an additional global trial was likely.

Asked about the Bloomberg report on the additional trial, a spokesman for AstraZeneca said: “As we communicated earlier this week, there is strong merit in continuing to further investigate the half-dose/full dose regimen.

“We are further evaluating the data and will work with regulators on the best approach for further evaluation. This would add to data from existing trials which are currently being prepared for regulatory submission.”

A gay nightclub in London said it is going to serve McDonald’s in order to stay open as a bar under restrictions being imposed on the capital when a national lockdown ends next week.

In an event titled The Show Must Go On, G-A-Y said McDonald’s meals would be served at its Heaven nightclub allowing the venue to serve alcohol to attendees.

London is being placed under Tier 2 coronavirus restrictions when lockdown ends on 2 December, meaning hospitality venues can only serve alcohol with substantial meals, and pubs and bars must close unless operating as restaurants. 

The event, running from 6pm - 11pm in accordance with a hospitality curfew, will also feature performances from West End singers Lucie Jones and Shanay Holmes. 

Other Tier 2 restrictions mean people will only be able to attend with members of their own household in groups of up to six. 

The head of British drug manufacturer AstraZeneca said further research was needed on its Covid-19 vaccine after questions emerged over the protection it offers, but the additional testing is unlikely to affect regulatory approval in Europe.

AstraZeneca and its partner, the University of Oxford, announced on Monday that it was seeking regulatory approval for the vaccine after it showed an average 70% effectiveness.

That rate jumped to 90% when an initial half-dose then a full dose was given, similar to that of rival vaccines in development by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna.

But it emerged the higher rate of effectiveness came during tests in people aged 55 and under, and was discovered by accident during the clinical trials.

The head of the Oxford Vaccine Group, Andrew Pollard, said this week that further evidence will be available next month, but the result was still “highly significant”.

“Now that we’ve found what looks like a better efficacy, we have to validate this, so we need to do an additional study,” AstraZeneca chief executive Pascal Soriot told Bloomberg.

He said he expected there would be another “international study but this one could be faster because we know the efficacy is high, so we need a smaller number of patients”.

The additional trial was not likely to delay regulatory approval in Britain and the EU, Soriot said.

There are high hopes for the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, which Pollard has hailed as a “vaccine for the world” given that it could be cheaper to make, and easier to store and distribute.

It can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions of between two and eight degrees Celsius (36-46 Fahrenheit) for at least six months.

Pfizer/BioNTech’s offering requires temperatures of -70C, driving up costs and potentially making it out of reach for lower and middle-income countries.

AstraZeneca/Oxford has also promised to provide its vaccine to the developing world on a non-profit basis.





No.43 article:
Not the time ‘to take foot off the beast’ says PM as scientists emphasise enduring risk of Covid

Tough new restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic will cover 99% of England’s population from next week, with government scientists warning that there is little prospect of any real changes for possibly months to come.

On a sobering day that provoked fury from some MPs, the prime minister apologised for the heartache and frustration the sweeping measures would cause to up 55 million people placed in the highest two tiers, but warned that this was not the time for “taking our foot off the throat of the beast”.

In a Downing Street press briefing, the chief medical officer for England, Prof Chris Whitty, underlined the size of the challenge still facing the country when he urged people to be cautious during the coming temporary relaxation of restrictions over Christmas.

Asked how the public should approach the brief festive respite, Whitty said: “Would I encourage someone to hug and kiss their elderly relatives? No I would not,” he said. “It’s not against the law. You can do it within the rules that are there – but it does not make sense, because you could be carrying the virus.”

He was backed by the chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance, who stressed the importance of following health rules such as ensuring good ventilation in buildings and maintaining distancing during family gatherings.

“Hugging elderly relatives is not something to go out and do,” Vallance said, prompting Whitty to chip in: “If you want them to survive to be hugged again.”

Both men also addressed growing questions about the data behind the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, urging patience until the full results were published in peer-reviewed journals. In a sign of the need to press on, the government has now asked the MHRA, the body that licenses vaccines in the UK, to start the approval process.

Much of northern England and the Midlands, as well as Kent, Bristol and Slough, are entering the top coronavirus restrictions tier, a move that has prompted concern from local leaders and businesses anxious about the social and economic impact of the rules.

Liverpool and London will be in tier 2, but Greater Manchester, which has been subject to restrictions of one kind or another since late July, will remain in tier 3 – meaning no socialising indoors, even in private gardens, a ban on travelling to other parts of the UK, and pubs and cafes only open for takeaways.

Greater Manchester’s mayor, Andy Burnham, said he understood the government’s reasoning but called for much more support for hard-hit businesses.

“Greater Manchester’s infection rate is reducing faster than any other part of the country but we have to accept that it is still significantly higher than the England average. What we believe is completely wrong is the government’s decision to provide no additional business support to areas in tier 3 than those in tiers 1 and 2,” Burnham said.

In total 23.3 million people, more than 41% of England’s population, will be in tier 3, while 32.2 million, more than 57%, will be in tier 2.

Boris Johnson said the allocation of tiers would be reviewed every 14 days from 16 December, suggesting mass testing could make households exempt from restrictions.

He said: “Now testing on this scale is untried, but in due course, if it works, where people test negative it may also be possible for families and communities to be released from certain restrictions even if their home area stays in tier 3. Your tier is not your destiny, every area has the means of escape.”

But both Vallance and Whitty struck a far more cautious note. Vallance said the tier 1 restrictions before the lockdown “really didn’t have an effect” on slowing the spread of the virus, and Whitty conceded it could be “some months to come, possibly in some weeks to come” that more places could drop down into the lowest tier.

It is unclear how widely such mass testing will be available. Local authorities will be able to apply to take part, and those selected will receive support, including logistics backup from the military. But full details of the scheme are not expected to be published until next week. A government spokesperson said 14,000 troops had been put on standby to help.

Scores of Conservative MPs are preparing to vote against the restrictions when they come to parliament next week, though they are also urging the government to publish a cost-benefit analysis of the measures.

Steve Baker, of the Tories’ Covid Recovery Group, which questions the logic for many of the restrictions, said: “The authoritarianism at work today is truly appalling.” He claimed it amounted to a continuation of the lockdown, which formally lifts next week.

The prime minister spoke of the businesses, including non-essential shops and hairdressers, that would be able to reopen.

The former Conservative minister Harriett Baldwin said she had supported the lockdown on the basis that it would buy time for the government to improve test and trace and develop a strategy for living with the virus.

She added: “There is no logic whatsoever in having a month of lockdown only for people to have to live under an even more severe set of restrictions afterwards. That’s why we must see the evidence, the data and the cost-benefit analysis – published in full and on time – so that we can assess whether or not the current strategy is working, and make sure we know if we are being asked to vote for something with an end date and which will explicitly save more lives than it costs.”

The government has promised to publish a full social and economic assessment of its decisions before next Tuesday’s vote.

Labour have not yet decided whether they will support the measures. Sir Keir Starmer is expected to receive a briefing on Monday from experts including Whitty, setting out the rationale for the new system.

Andrew Gwynne, the former Labour frontbencher who represents Denton and Reddish in Greater Manchester, said he was minded not to support the new regime. “I will never understand the logic of a tiering system that says it’s OK for many thousands to cram into a busy shopping centre in the run-up to Christmas, but small numbers from the same household are unable to sit responsibly at a table for a meal and a drink in a bar or restaurant.”

Many areas in the south of England have moved from tier 1, via the four-week nationwide lockdown, into the more stringent tier 2, prompting a furious response from local MPs who questioned how they could explain the situation to their constituents.

Business groups warned the tough rules would hit the economy hard. Adam Marshall, director-general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: “Ongoing restrictions in England will continue to have a devastating impact on businesses across the country. To weather a difficult winter ahead, greater support will be needed for the hardest hit firms, including those in town and city centres that will miss out on trade as employees continue to work from home.”






