No.1 article:
Al Qaeda’s No. 2, Accused in U.S. Embassy Attacks, Was Killed in Iran

Israeli agents shot Abu Muhammad al-Masri on the streets of Tehran at the behest of the U.S., officials said, but no one — Iran, Al Qaeda, the U.S. or Israel — has publicly acknowledged the killing.

WASHINGTON — Al Qaeda’s second-highest leader, accused of being one of the masterminds of the deadly 1998 attacks on American embassies in Africa, was killed in Iran three months ago, intelligence officials have confirmed.

Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, who went by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri, was gunned down on the streets of Tehran by two assassins on a motorcycle on Aug. 7, the anniversary of the embassy attacks. He was killed along with his daughter, Miriam, the widow of Osama bin Laden’s son Hamza bin Laden.

The attack was carried out by Israeli operatives at the behest of the United States, according to four of the officials. It is unclear what role if any was played by the United States, which had been tracking the movements of Mr. al-Masri and other Qaeda operatives in Iran for years.

The killing occurred in such a netherworld of geopolitical intrigue and counterterrorism spycraft that Mr. al-Masri’s death had been rumored but never confirmed until now. For reasons that are still obscure, Al Qaeda has not announced the death of one of its top leaders, Iranian officials covered it up, and no country has publicly claimed responsibility for it.

Mr. al-Masri, who was about 58, was one of Al Qaeda’s founding leaders and was thought to be first in line to lead the organization after its current leader, Ayman al-Zawahri.

Long featured on the F.B.I.’s Most Wanted Terrorist list, he had been indicted in the United States for crimes related to the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed 224 people and wounded hundreds. The F.B.I. offered a $10 million reward for information leading to his capture, and as of Friday, his picture was still on the Most Wanted list.

That he had been living in Iran was surprising, given that Iran and Al Qaeda are bitter enemies. Iran, a Shiite Muslim theocracy, and Al Qaeda, a Sunni Muslim jihadist group, have fought each other on the battlefields of Iraq and other places.

American intelligence officials say that Mr. al-Masri had been in Iran’s “custody” since 2003, but that he had been living freely in the Pasdaran district of Tehran, an upscale suburb, since at least 2015.

Around 9:00 on a warm summer night, he was driving his white Renault L90 sedan with his daughter near his home when two gunmen on a motorcycle drew up beside him. Five shots were fired from a pistol fitted with a silencer. Four bullets entered the car through the driver’s side and a fifth hit a nearby car.

As news of the shooting broke, Iran’s official news media identified the victims as Habib Daoud, a Lebanese history professor, and his 27-year-old daughter Maryam. The Lebanese news channel MTV and social media accounts affiliated with Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps reported that Mr. Daoud was a member of Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed militant organization in Lebanon.

It seemed plausible.

The killing came amid a summer of frequent explosions in Iran, mounting tensions with the United States, days after an enormous explosion in the port of Beirut and a week before the United Nations Security Council was to consider extending an arms embargo against Iran. There was speculation that the killing may have been a Western provocation intended to elicit a violent Iranian reaction in advance of the Security Council vote.

And the targeted killing by two gunmen on a motorcycle fit the modus operandi of previous Israeli assassinations of Iranian nuclear scientists. That Israel would kill an official of Hezbollah, which is committed to fighting Israel, also seemed to make sense, except for the fact that Israel had been consciously avoiding killing Hezbollah operatives so as not to provoke a war.

In fact, there was no Habib Daoud.

Several Lebanese with close ties to Iran said they had not heard of him or his killing. A search of Lebanese news media found no reports of a Lebanese history professor killed in Iran last summer. And an education researcher with access to lists of all history professors in the country said there was no record of a Habib Daoud.

One of the intelligence officials said that Habib Daoud was an alias Iranian officials gave Mr. al-Masri and the history teaching job was a cover story. In October, the former leader of Egypt’s Islamic Jihad, Nabil Naeem, who called Mr. al-Masri a longtime friend, told the Saudi news channel Al Arabiya the same thing.

Iran may have had good reason for wanting to hide the fact that it was harboring an avowed enemy, but it was less clear why Iranian officials would have taken in the Qaeda leader to begin with.

Some terrorism experts suggested that keeping Qaeda officials in Tehran might provide some insurance that the group would not conduct operations inside Iran. American counterterrorism officials believe Iran may have allowed them to stay to run operations against the United States, a common adversary.

It would not be the first time that Iran had joined forces with Sunni militants, having supported Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad and the Taliban.

“Iran uses sectarianism as a cudgel when it suits the regime, but is also willing to overlook the Sunni-Shia divide when it suits Iranian interests,” said Colin P. Clarke, a counterterrorism analyst at the Soufan Center.

Iran has consistently denied housing the Qaeda officials. In 2018, the Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Ghasemi said that because of Iran’s long, porous border with Afghanistan, some Qaeda members had entered Iran, but they had been detained and returned to their home countries.

However, Western intelligence officials said the Qaeda leaders had been kept under house arrest by the Iranian government, which then made at least two deals with Al Qaeda to free some of them in 2011 and 2015.

Although Al Qaeda has been overshadowed in recent years by the rise of the Islamic State, it remains resilient and has active affiliates around the globe, a U.N. counterterrorism report issued in July concluded.

Iranian officials did not respond to requests for comment for this article. But on Saturday, after this article was published, the Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh denied the presence of any Qaeda members in Iran. He warned American media “not to fall for the trap of Hollywood scenarios fed to them by American and Zionist officials,” according to a statement on the ministry’s website.

Spokesmen for the Israeli prime minister’s office and the Trump administration’s National Security Council declined to comment.

Mr. al-Masri was a longtime member of Al Qaeda’s highly secretive management council, along with Saif al-Adl, who was also held in Iran at one point. The pair, along with Hamza bin Laden, who was being groomed to take over the organization, were part of a group of senior Qaeda leaders who sought refuge in Iran after the 9/11 attacks on the United States forced them to flee Afghanistan.

According to a highly classified document produced by the U.S. National Counterterrorism Center in 2008, Mr. al-Masri was the “most experienced and capable operational planner not in U.S. or allied custody.” The document described him as the “former chief of training” who “worked closely” with Mr. al-Adl.

In Iran, Mr. al-Masri mentored Hamza bin Laden, according to terrorism experts. Hamza bin Laden later married Mr. al-Masri’s daughter, Miriam.

“The marriage of Hamza bin Ladin was not the only dynastic connection Abu Muhammad forged in captivity,” the former F.B.I. agent and Qaeda expert Ali Soufan wrote in a 2019 article for West Point’s Combating Terrorism Center.

Another of Mr. al-Masri’s daughters married Abu al-Khayr al-Masri, no relation, a member of the management council. He was allowed to leave Iran in 2015 and was killed by a U.S. drone strike in Syria in 2017. At the time, he was the second-ranking Qaeda official after Mr. Zawahri.

Hamza and other members of the Bin Laden family were freed by Iran in 2011 in exchange for an Iranian diplomat abducted in Pakistan. Last year, the White House said that Hamza bin Laden had been killed in a counterterrorism operation in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.

Abu Muhammad al-Masri was born in Al Gharbiya district of northern Egypt in 1963. In his youth, according to affidavits filed in lawsuits in the United States, he was a professional soccer player in Egypt’s top league. After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, he joined the jihadist movement that was coalescing to assist the Afghan forces.

After the Soviets withdrew 10 years later, Egypt refused to allow Mr. al-Masri to return. He remained in Afghanistan where he eventually joined Bin Laden in the group that was later to become the founding nucleus of Al Qaeda. He was listed by the group as the seventh of its 170 founders.

In the early 1990s, he traveled with Bin Laden to Khartoum, Sudan, where he began forming military cells. He also went to Somalia to help the militia loyal to the Somali warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid. There he trained Somali guerrillas in the use of shoulder-borne rocket launchers against helicopters, training they used in the 1993 battle of Mogadishu to shoot down a pair of American helicopters in what is now known as the Black Hawk Down attack.

“When Al Qaeda began to carry out terrorist activities in the late 1990s, al-Masri was one of the three of Bin Laden’s closest associates, serving as head of the organization’s operations section,” said Yoram Schweitzer, head of the Terrorism Project of the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “He brought with him know-how and determination and since then was involved in a large part of the organization’s operations, with an emphasis on Africa.”

Shortly after the Mogadishu battle, Bin Laden put Mr. al-Masri in charge of planning operations against American targets in Africa. Plotting a dramatic, ambitious operation that, like the 9/11 attacks, would command international attention, they decided to attack two relatively well-defended targets in separate countries simultaneously.

Shortly after 10:30 a.m. on Aug. 7, 1998, two trucks packed with explosives pulled up in front of the American embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The blasts incinerated people nearby, blew walls off buildings and shattered glass for blocks around.

In 2000, Mr. al-Masri became one of the nine members of Al Qaeda’s governing council and headed the organization’s military training.

He also continued to oversee Africa operations, according to a former Israeli Intelligence official, and ordered the attack in Mombasa, Kenya, in 2002 that killed 13 Kenyans and three Israeli tourists.

By 2003, Mr. al-Masri was among several Qaeda leaders who fled to Iran which, although hostile to the group, seemed out of American reach.

“They believed the United States would find it very difficult to act against them there,” Mr. Schweitzer said. “Also because they believed that the chances of the Iranian regime doing an exchange deal with the Americans that would include their heads were very slim.”

Mr. al-Masri was one of the few high-ranking members of the organization to survive the American hunt for the perpetrators of 9/11 and other attacks. When he and other Qaeda leaders fled to Iran, they were initially kept under house arrest.

In 2015, Iran announced a deal with Al Qaeda in which it released five of the organization’s leaders, including Mr. al-Masri, in exchange for an Iranian diplomat who had been abducted in Yemen.

Mr. Abdullah’s footprints faded away, but according to one of the intelligence officials, he continued to live in Tehran, under the protection of the Revolutionary Guards and later the Ministry of Intelligence and Security. He was allowed to travel abroad and did, mainly to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Syria.

Some American analysts said Mr. al-Masri’s death would sever connections between one of the last original Qaeda leaders and the current generation of Islamist militants, who have grown up after Bin Laden’s 2011 death.

“If true, this further cuts links between old-school Al Qaeda and the modern jihad,” said Nicholas J. Rasmussen, a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center. “It just further contributes to the fragmentation and decentralization of the Al Qaeda movement.”





No.2 article:
Biden’s Education Department Will Move Fast to Reverse Betsy DeVos’s Policies

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has presented an education agenda that is starkly different from the Trump era, beginning with a far more cautious approach to school reopenings.

WASHINGTON — Like most federal agencies, the Education Department followed President Trump’s lead in seeking to undo the legacy of his predecessor, and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos diligently tore into President Barack Obama’s policies.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is planning to return the favor.

The contrasts in Trump-era education policy and the incoming Biden agenda are stark. Ms. DeVos, a lifelong booster of private schools and opponent of the teachers’ unions, set out to reduce the Education Department’s footprint by proposing cuts to public school funding and narrowing the department’s enforcement of federal education laws and civil rights.

The incoming first lady, Jill Biden, is a community college professor and member of the National Education Association, the nation’s largest teachers’ union. The Biden administration has promised to drastically increase resources for public schools, expand civil rights advocacy for marginalized students and reassert department leadership in policymaking.

On the most pressing issue facing education, reopening schools during the pandemic, the Biden administration has signaled a sharply different approach.

The Trump administration has demanded that schools reopen, despite severe budget constraints and confusing health guidelines, while the Education Department has all but absolved itself of tracking the virus’s impact and offering solutions. The Biden campaign has promised federal relief funding and assistance for schools to address the devastating effects of the pandemic on the academic trajectory of their most vulnerable students.

But the president-elect’s closeness with the powerful teachers’ unions has raised concerns. Unions have come under fire from parents and school leaders who say their opposition to in-person instruction conflicts with science and students’ well-being. Ms. DeVos posted a series of articles on Twitter that have questioned the unions’ roles.

“When unions win, kids lose,” she said.

With a likely Republican Senate and a narrow Democratic majority in the House, Mr. Biden will struggle to accomplish some of his loftiest policy goals. He has promised to bolster funding for special education, institute universal prekindergarten and triple funding for a federal program that helps schools serving high concentrations of students from low-income families, devoting some of that funding to teacher salaries. In higher education, he has promised free public college, expanding federal financial aid and canceling some student debt.

Stef Feldman, the Biden campaign’s policy director, told reporters last month that Mr. Biden would “be able to get some big, bold education legislation passed and certainly immediate relief for our schools and our educators, but that doesn’t mean that we’re not also going to take executive action within existing authority.”

Those actions could come quickly.

Mr. Biden has promised to appoint a secretary with teaching experience and a deep knowledge of the challenges schools and students face.

In his victory speech on Nov. 7, the president-elect referred to Dr. Biden as he declared: “For America’s educators, this is a great day. You’re going to have one of your own in the White House.”

The Biden administration plans to restore Obama-era civil rights guidance — rescinded by Ms. DeVos — that allowed transgender students to choose their school bathrooms, addressed the disproportionate disciplining of Black students and pressed for diversity in colleges and K-12 classrooms. The restoration of those guidance documents can be done immediately because they were not put through the regulatory process or enacted into law.

Undoing what is arguably Ms. DeVos’s most formidable accomplishment — rules for federally funded schools investigating sexual misconduct — could be tougher. The incoming administration has vowed to dismantle those rules. As vice president, Mr. Biden had personally helped introduce the Obama-era guidelines on campus sexual misconduct that Ms. DeVos reversed through formal rule-making.

But unlike guidance documents, which do not carry the force of law, and other DeVos regulatory measures that have been overturned by courts, the sexual misconduct rules have already held up against legal challenges. The rules would have to be overturned through legislation or rewritten through the regulatory system, a process that could take years.

Mr. Biden’s team is also eyeing Ms. DeVos’s formal rules that tightened Obama-era regulations on loan forgiveness for students defrauded by their colleges and that eased oversight of for-profit colleges. Those rules could also require regulatory action if they survive court challenges.

The administration is likely to prioritize the immense backlog of loan forgiveness claims that the Trump administration let pile up, and the denials of assistance the department has issued to students who claim they were cheated by their colleges, according to officials familiar with the plans. Among the thousands of students awaiting relief are those who attended Corinthian Colleges, a now defunct for-profit college chain that Vice President-elect Kamala Harris sued as attorney general of California.

“There’s a lot of work to be done, but it will be nice to know there’s an education secretary who’s thinking about how to protect students from predatory schools instead of the other way around,” said Aaron Ament, the president of the National Student Legal Defense Network, which has sued the department for its rollbacks of loan forgiveness and consumer protection rules.

The team Mr. Biden has named to help the Education Department through the transition signaled the direction he intends to take.

Leading the team is Linda Darling-Hammond, the president of the Palo Alto, Calif.-based Learning Policy Institute, who also oversaw the education transition for Mr. Obama in 2008. Ms. Darling-Hammond, a veteran researcher and policymaker in arenas like desegregation, school finance and teacher preparation, was considered a contender for Mr. Biden’s secretary of education, but took herself out of the running, saying she was committed to her work in California.

The transition team’s strong representation from former Obama-era officials and teachers’ unions has been met with mixed reactions.

Keri Rodrigues, the president of the National Parents Union, which represents low-income parents and parents of color, said the composition of the team made her worried that the Biden administration might stack the government with people who are “interested in fortifying the status quo that has been failing so many of our kids.”

“This is the biggest table right now,” she said of the transition team, “and I don’t see parent groups, family groups, community groups present.” She added, “It seems we’re back to the same old, ‘We’re going to do things to you, not with you.’”

Unions were not seen as key players in the Obama administration’s coalition — the National Education Association called for the resignation of Mr. Obama’s first education secretary, Arne Duncan — and have been at odds with centrist Democrats on some policy issues, such as charter schools, which are supported by many Black and Latino families. Mr. Biden this summer reshaped the Democratic platform to embrace a ban on federal funding for for-profit charters, and to call for cutting funding to underperforming charters run by nonprofit organizations.

“He’s coming in saying he wants to unify people, and it’ll be interesting to see whether that holds for education policy,” said Charles Barone, the director of policy at Democrats for Education Reform. “If you really respect the role of people who got you elected, are you going to come in and attack the choices they make for their children?”

Teachers’ unions have curried favor by fighting Ms. DeVos at every turn, but Mr. Biden’s alliance with them has raised concerns.

“If it looks like the teachers&#x27; unions are now calling the shots, and not the people schools are supposed to be serving, the pendulum will swing the other way,” said Neal McCluskey, the director of the libertarian Cato Institute’s Center for Educational Freedom.

Mr. Biden has echoed union concerns that the country needs to get the coronavirus under control to safely reopen schools, and that it will take a large infusion of cash to meet safety guidelines and the needs of students who have suffered academic and social setbacks.

“Schools, they need a lot of money to open,” Mr. Biden said during the last presidential debate, citing the need for better ventilation systems, smaller class sizes and more teachers.

While Mr. Trump has emphasized low infection rates among children, Mr. Biden has also stressed concerns for educators. During one of the debates, after Mr. Trump accused him of wanting to keep the country locked down, Mr. Biden mocked the president: “All you teachers out there, not that many of you are going to die, so don’t worry about it.”

Becky Pringle, the National Education Association’s president, said Mr. Biden understood that “no school system budget has a line item that says, ‘coronavirus.’”

Ms. Pringle noted that Mr. Biden had always been a strong supporter of the labor movement and said she was proud that he had also “leaned in” to the association’s playbook.

“He’ll take the slings and arrows for being ‘too close’ to us, and he’ll be able to say, ‘Not only did they help me get elected, they help me lead in a bold way,’” she said.

Union leaders top speculative short lists of contenders to be the next education secretary and will undoubtedly influence Mr. Biden’s choice. Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, and Lily Eskelsen García, a past president of the National Education Association, are among the names mentioned.

Other names include superintendents of districts like Baltimore and Seattle, and Representative Jahana Hayes, Democrat of Connecticut and a former National Teacher of the Year.

Ms. Weingarten said that she was honored by the mention, but that she would be “really happy to work with the Biden administration as the president of the A.F.T.”

“The Biden-Harris administration has the potential to enable a renaissance in public education,” she said.





No.3 article:
Trump Loses String of Election Lawsuits, Leaving Few Vehicles to Fight His Defeat

The president’s efforts to use the courts to delay or block President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory were turned aside in cases in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Arizona.

President Trump suffered multiple legal setbacks in three key swing states on Friday, choking off many of his last-ditch efforts to use the courts to delay or block President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory.

In quick succession, Mr. Trump was handed defeats in Pennsylvania, Arizona and Michigan, where a state judge in Detroit rejected an unusual Republican attempt to halt the certification of the vote in Wayne County pending an audit of the count.

The legal losses came as Mr. Biden was declared the victor in Georgia and a day after an agency in the president’s own Department of Homeland Security flatly contradicted him by declaring that the election “was the most secure in American history” and that “there is no evidence” any voting systems malfunctioned.

On Friday, 16 federal prosecutors who had been assigned to monitor the election also directly debunked claims of widespread fraud, saying in a letter to Attorney General William P. Barr that there was no evidence of substantial irregularities.

In his first public remarks of the week, Mr. Trump ignored the developments during an appearance in the Rose Garden. But he showed a momentary crack in his previously relentless insistence that he would eventually be proclaimed the winner of the campaign, saying at one point, “Whatever happens in the future, who knows, which administration, I guess time will tell.”

Mr. Trump’s bad day at the bar began at dawn when news emerged that lawyers from the Ohio-based law firm Porter Wright Morris &amp; Arthur had abruptly withdrawn from a federal lawsuit they had filed only days earlier on his behalf in Pennsylvania. The firm’s withdrawal followed internal tensions at the firm about its work for Mr. Trump and concerns by some lawyers that Porter Wright was being used to undercut the integrity of the electoral process.

Then, shortly after noon, a lawyer for the Trump campaign effectively dropped its so-called Sharpiegate lawsuit in Arizona. That lawsuit had claimed that some ballots cast for Mr. Trump were invalidated after voters in Maricopa County had used Sharpie pens, causing “ink bleeds.” The lawyer, Kory Langhofer, acknowledged that not enough presidential votes were at stake in the case to affect the outcome of the race.

The lawsuit, which stemmed from a viral rumor that falsely claimed Arizona’s voting machines were incapable of tabulating ballots filled out with Sharpies, was already on the rocks. At a hearing on Thursday, Mr. Langhofer told the court that the county’s vote count had been affected merely by “good-faith errors,” not by fraud, as Mr. Trump has been claiming for days.

“We are not saying anyone is trying to steal the election,” Mr. Langhofer said.

With victories in Arizona and Georgia, Mr. Biden has matched the 306 electoral votes that Mr. Trump racked up four years ago. Mr. Biden was declared the winner of Arizona’s 11 electoral votes on Thursday night after he finished more than 11,000 votes ahead of Mr. Trump. At the court hearing earlier that day, a Maricopa County elections official testified that only 191 presidential votes in the county might have been affected by Mr. Langhofer’s suit.

Around 2 p.m. Friday, the state court judge in Michigan, Timothy M. Kenny, dealt Mr. Trump another blow by denying an emergency motion filed by two Republican poll workers who had asked him to halt the certification of the vote in Wayne County — home to Detroit — pending an audit of the count. States have to certify the results of the election — confirming that the vote tabulation was accurate — in order to apportion their Electoral College votes.

The ruling by Judge Kenny meant that the formal completion of the vote in Wayne County — and the broader vote in Michigan — could continue on pace. Some legal scholars have suggested that delaying certification of the vote in key states is part of a last-ditch strategy by the Trump campaign to throw the election to Republican-led state legislatures.

At a hearing this week in Detroit, lawyers for the city had asked Judge Kenny not to delay certification out of concern about this gambit. In his ruling, the judge noted that the audit requested by the two Republican plaintiffs, Cheryl Costantino and Edward McCall, would have been “unwieldy” and forced the rest of Michigan to wait.

“It would be an unprecedented exercise of judicial activism for this court to stop the certification process,” Judge Kenny added.

In a lawsuit filed last week, Ms. Costantino and Mr. McCall had made wide-ranging claims of irregularities during the vote count at Detroit’s TCF Convention Center.

They charged that some poll workers in the heavily Democratic city were coaching voters to cast their ballots for Mr. Biden, that some Republican poll challengers were not given adequate access to monitor the vote count, and that loads of ballots were improperly brought into the convention center in the middle of the night.

Lawyers for Detroit and for the Michigan Democratic Party had argued in court papers that about 100 Republican poll challengers had in fact been let into the convention center, but that some were not allowed to return after leaving once the room filled up.

Judge Kenny wrote that while he took some of these accusations seriously, some were too general to be proved and others were “rife with speculation and guesswork.”

He dismissed an affidavit by one Republican poll observer charging that computers at the convention center had been improperly connected to the internet, noting that the observer’s credibility was suspect: Before the election, the observer had posted on Facebook that the Democrats were using the coronavirus crisis as “a cover for Election Day fraud.”

In between the events in Arizona and Michigan, another court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, handed the president another defeat.

The court upheld Pennsylvania’s three-day extension for the deadline to accept mail-in ballots, against which the Trump campaign has vociferously fought. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court had already issued a similar decision, and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to accept Mr. Trump’s attempt to challenge it.

As the president was speaking in the Rose Garden, Marc E. Elias, a lawyer who has handled several election cases on behalf of the Democrats, wrote on Twitter: “Another Friday afternoon with more good news coming from the courts.”

That turned out to be two more victories in Pennsylvania.

In one, a Montgomery County Common Pleas Court denied the Trump campaign’s request to invalidate a batch of mail-in ballots. In the other, a Philadelphia County Common Pleas Court rejected the campaign’s appeal seeking to invalidate five more batches of mail-in ballots.

The total number of ballots at stake in the two decisions: 8,927.

Mr. Trump was not ready to give up. He posted on Twitter on Friday evening that he would win in Pennsylvania, making a baseless assertion about vote counting in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.

With the legal fight not going well, the president put his personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, in charge of his campaign lawsuits related to the outcome of the election, as well as all public communications related to them, four people familiar with the move said.

Mr. Trump has been trying every possible option to change the outcome and has been trying to get what he sees as “fighters” making his case, often conflating a media strategy with a legal one.

But the involvement of Mr. Giuliani, who held a widely mocked news conference last weekend in front of a landscaping company in Philadelphia in which he claimed widespread fraud, has vexed people on the campaign and in the White House.

The Trump campaign and its proxies still have some cases working their ways through the courts, including one in Federal District Court in Grand Rapids, Mich., that closely mirrors the Michigan state case that Judge Kenny ended on Friday.

A lawsuit seeking to delay certification of the vote in several counties in Wisconsin was filed on Thursday in Federal District Court in Green Bay. On Tuesday, a federal judge in Williamsport, Pa., will hear arguments in a lawsuit that seeks to halt the certification of the vote in several counties in that state.





No.4 article:
8 Months After Virus Hit, an Ominous Sign: Long Lines for Testing Again

As the outbreak surges around the country, the testing delays show the basic public health challenges that the country still faces.

New Yorkers stood for hours in long lines to be tested for the coronavirus on Friday, a disturbing indicator that shows the basic public health challenges that the United States still faces many months after the pandemic first hit.

People waited for tests they needed for work or school. Some feared they might have gotten sick after flouting social distancing while celebrating after the election. Others hoped to safely visit family on Thanksgiving, suggesting that the problem might worsen over the coming holidays. And some, dissuaded by the prospect of lingering on sidewalks for more than three hours in the rain, walked away untested.

“It’s so frustrating,” said Councilman Mark Levine of Manhattan, the Health Committee chairman. “We keep hitting new problems in tests. We solve one and another pops up.”

The lines and escalating demand for testing underscore how a second wave of the virus is threatening New York City, and they come as the entire country confronts record numbers of new cases — more than 181,000 nationally on Friday. Several governors have warned that they are seriously considering further restrictions in a last-ditch effort to curb the outbreak.

The governors of California, Oregon and Washington urged residents to avoid all nonessential interstate travel in the days ahead. In Utah, which also just set a case record, Gov. Gary Herbert issued a statewide mask mandate this week and told residents to limit casual social gatherings to those in their immediate households.

In Illinois, which has recorded more than 80,000 new cases in the past week, Gov. J.B. Pritzker warned that the state could soon impose a stay-at-home order.

Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York announced that it was extremely likely that the city would have to shut down its school system, the nation’s largest, with 1.1 million children, because the seven-day test positivity rate across the five boroughs would soon hit 3 percent.

In Washington, President Trump made his first appearance to discuss the outbreak since the election and said it was possible that vaccines for the virus could be widely available by the spring. 

Mr. Trump also deepened his feud with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, threatening to withhold a vaccine from the state because of Mr. Cuomo’s criticism of the administration’s  distribution plan.

The potential impact of the president’s threat was not immediately clear, given that Mr. Trump is leaving office on Jan. 20. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is a close ally of Mr. Cuomo and is likely to put in place a different distribution plan.

By all accounts, even if things go well, vaccines are still months away. For now, much of the attention is focused on testing problems, which were threatening to delay results and hinder efforts to control the spread of the virus.

New York City had a record number of tests on Thursday, more than 74,000, officials said. Across the country, nearly 1.5 million people a day are being tested, according to the Covid Tracking Project. That is nearly double the number in August and far more than during the pandemic’s first wave in the spring, when there was far less testing capacity.

Public health systems around the country are once again straining under the need for testing. Some areas face looming shortages of lab capacity. In other places, like New York City, clinics and other testing sites have been swamped by huge numbers of people seeking to be tested.

“The spring pales in comparison to what we are experiencing now,” said Karissa Culbreath,  the medical director and infectious disease division chief at TriCore laboratories in New Mexico, where cases have rocketed upward lately. 

In recent months, millions more tests have become available to Americans, but demand has grown faster.

“We cannot continue to just throw more testing at this pandemic without more strategy,” Dr. Culbreath said. 

From March to October, Dr. Culbreath said, her team ran a half-million more diagnostic tests than is typical for their facility, a harried attempt to keep pace with the pandemic while still testing for other infectious viruses and bacteria that continue to afflict patients.

This week, the American Clinical Laboratory Association, which represents Quest Diagnostics and the other large commercial labs that have shouldered much of the virus-testing burden, warned that turnaround times for results would start taking longer, too.

The group said that its member labs had performed nearly a half-million virus tests on Wednesday and were experiencing shortages of pipette tips and other testing essentials.

“Labs have managed to make it work,” said Dr. Patrick Godbey, the president of the College of American Pathologists and the director of two labs in Georgia. “Pathologists and lab scientists have made heroic efforts to answer the call. But demand has not gone down, and now the numbers are going up again. You’re seeing it now in Illinois, in Wisconsin.”

In Washington State, Providence Health and Services, which operates a drive-through testing site near Olympia with Thurston County, had to turn cars away when more than 200 lined up on Monday, the health care provider said in a statement. In Denver, testing sites were reporting hourslong waits.

Facing escalating complaints, city and state officials in New York tried to play down the delays, saying that people could obtain tests if they searched around.

Gareth Rhodes, a member of Mr. Cuomo’s coronavirus task force, defended the state’s performance and pointed to the number of testing sites statewide, roughly 1,200.

More than 400 of those sites are in New York City. Some sites, Mr. Rhodes said, were running below capacity.

For people dreading long lines, Mr. Rhodes recommended calling ahead or scheduling an appointment. That way, he said, “people don’t have to wait at all.”

Dr. Andrew Wallach, a senior official with the city’s Test &amp; Trace program, said that people could often get tested quickly at tents set up outside public hospitals, or at other city-run sites.

“Most people get in and out within the hour or so,” Dr. Wallach said.

Many New Yorkers were finding that it was not so easy.

New York City had for months promoted its progress in improving testing, but the lines this week showed that the public health structure still faced difficulties in addressing the outbreak.

Collecting samples should be the easiest part of the process, given the demand for testing.

The government has relied in large part on existing urgent care clinics, like the CityMD network, to do much of the sample collection. But there are simply not enough collection sites to keep up.

Joy Lee-Calio, a spokeswoman for CityMD, which has more than 130 clinics in the New York City area, said the number of visits, most of which were related to the virus, had jumped 25 percent in the past several weeks.

The long lines prompted CityMD to announce that its clinics would start closing 90 minutes earlier than usual in an effort to keep staff members from working late into the night.

“Our site staff and doctors have been seeing patients well beyond normal closing time for months now, and we’ve reached the point where they are sacrificing their own safety and health,” the company wrote in an email to patients on Friday about the closing-time change.

CityMD collects samples for about 15,000 coronavirus tests a day across its locations, more than half of which are in the five boroughs, Ms. Lee-Calio said.

Government-run testing sites in New York also had waits, but they were often somewhat shorter.

At a testing site under a large white tent in front of a public housing complex in Harlem, the line at midday did not extend far.

“I specifically avoided going to a CityMD because the lines don’t move there,” said Josh Fiene, 31, who after 20 minutes was at the front of an eight-person line.

He did not have symptoms, but he decided to get tested because his roommates had been hanging out with someone who was recently exposed to the virus.

But for many, the trouble was simply getting into a clinic.

At 10 a.m., Avi Weinstein, 31, was waiting in line under a light rain on West 88th Street on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, inching his way toward a CityMD urgent care center where he hoped to get tested. “I’ve been here for an hour and a half,” he said.

Mr. Weinstein said he had come down with a fever the previous night and was worried that he might have been infected while celebrating the election results last week with friends.

“I was expecting a long line,” he said, “but not this long.”

The line would grow longer over the morning, with some people waiting nearly three hours before they reached the clinic’s door.

“We want to see our grandchildren at Thanksgiving, and we hope if everyone tests negative that can happen,” said Erica Eisinger, 76, who was waiting with her husband, Peter.

The scene was the same at CityMD clinics across New York: long lines and varying levels of frustration and bafflement as to why getting a timely, convenient virus test was a struggle so many months into the pandemic.

In the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, Arjun Mocherla waited outside a CityMD clinic for nearly an hour, advancing maybe 15 feet in a socially distanced line. Mr. Mocherla, a New York University law student, had been tested through the university in the past.

“This is my first line,” he said. “I’m starting to regret it already.”

Then someone told him the wait might be four hours. He left.





No.5 article:
California Is Trying to Jump-Start the Hydrogen Economy

IRVINE, Calif. — Since President George W. Bush fueled a minivan with hydrogen 15 years ago, the promise of cars and trucks powered by the fuel has come up mostly empty.

That hydrogen pump, in Washington, closed long ago. But in California, the beginnings of a hydrogen economy may finally be dawning after many fits and starts.

Dozens of hydrogen buses are lumbering down city streets, while more and larger fueling stations are appearing from San Diego to San Francisco, financed by the state and federal governments. With the costs of producing and shipping hydrogen coming down, California is setting ambitious goals to phase out vehicles that run on fossil fuels in favor of batteries and hydrogen. Large auto and energy companies like Toyota Motor and Royal Dutch Shell have committed to supplying more cars and fueling stations.

“In past cycles, there was always something missing,” said Matthew Blieske, Shell’s global hydrogen product manager. “There was a policy missing, or the technology wasn’t quite ready, or people were not so serious about decarbonization. We don’t see those barriers anymore.”

Some energy executives said they expected investment in hydrogen to accelerate under President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who made climate change a big part of his campaign and proposed a $2 trillion plan to tackle the problem.

A recent McKinsey &amp; Company study estimated that the hydrogen economy could generate $140 billion in annual revenue by 2030 and support 700,000 jobs. The study projected that hydrogen could meet 14 percent of total American energy demand by 2050.

The use of hydrogen, the lightest and most abundant substance in the universe, is still in its infancy, and California is determined to be its cradle in the United States, with $20 million in annual funding from the California Energy Commission through vehicle license fees. California will have spent about $230 million on hydrogen projects by the end of 2023. The state now has roughly 40 fueling stations, with dozens more under construction. While those numbers are tiny compared with the 10,000 gasoline stations across the state, officials have high hopes.

With about 7,500 hydrogen vehicles on the road, an aggressive state program of incentives and subsidies from cap-and-trade dollars envisions 50,000 hydrogen light-duty vehicles by middecade and a network of 1,000 hydrogen stations by 2030. The infrastructure required for producing, transporting and dispensing the gas alone will cost about $10 billion, according to California hydrogen researchers, who expect both private and government investment.

Other states are much further behind. A vast majority of the country’s hydrogen fueling stations and vehicles are in California.

Hydrogen-powered vehicles are similar to electric cars. But unlike electric cars, which have large batteries, these cars have hydrogen tanks and fuel cells that turn the gas into electricity. The cars refuel and accelerate quickly, and they can go for several hundred miles on a full tank. They emit only water vapor, which makes them appealing to California cities that are trying to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.

“Almost any objective analysis for getting to zero emissions includes hydrogen,” said Jack Brouwer, director of the National Fuel Cell Research Center at the University of California, Irvine.

Mr. Brouwer does not think hydrogen will become the dominant energy source soon, but he argues that it has great potential as a fuel for vehicles, power plants and appliances. Hydrogen, he said, will complement the use of lithium-ion batteries, solar panels, wind turbines and natural gas.

U.C. Irvine has experimented with hydrogen for years and formed partnerships with local governments and major corporations to popularize its use in Southern California.

Just over a decade ago, Tim Brown worked on gasoline systems at General Motors. He went back to school in 2004, studied hydrogen with Mr. Brouwer and “became a believer.”

Five years after earning his doctorate in 2008, he founded First Element Fuel, which operates 21 hydrogen fueling stations, including a four-pump unit at an Arco gas station in Fountain Valley, about a 10-minute drive from U.C. Irvine. The company plans to build up to 80 stations across the state, under the brand name True Zero.

One recent afternoon, Karen Harelson pulled up to the Arco station in her Toyota Mirai, a hydrogen-powered sedan that she bought two years ago. “I personally don’t think they should make another car without it,” said Ms. Harelson, 66, a retired professor at Golden West College. “It’s the best car I’ve ever had. The problem is, there’s just not enough stations around.”

That’s a common complaint. Because of the paucity of hydrogen pumps, car owners often wait in line. But unlike battery-powered electric cars, which can require 45 minutes to several hours to fully charge, hydrogen cars, like gasoline ones, fill up in less than 10 minutes and are good for 300 miles or more on a full tank.

Some proponents of hydrogen think its biggest use will be in larger vehicles. Among them is SunLine Transit, which serves Palm Springs and other cities in Riverside County.

The transit system has 17 hydrogen buses and is planning to add 10 in the next year. SunLine used more than $27 million in grants over the last 10 years to buy the vehicles and equipment to produce hydrogen, which it makes with the help of electricity from the grid and solar panels. The transit agency already sells compressed natural gas, which fuels most of its buses, to commercial and government agencies, and it plans to sell hydrogen, too.

Lauren Skiver, the chief executive and general manager of SunLine, said that she had invited other transit agencies and utilities to see just how far hydrogen had come but that she had often met with disbelief and ambivalence.

“We try to meet with them all the time: ‘Look what we’re doing on hydrogen,’” Ms. Skiver said. “They’re not interested at all.”

There is good reason for skepticism.

While there have been many technical advances, hydrogen is still expensive to make and transport. Fuel-cell vehicles also cost more than comparable electric cars. A Toyota Mirai sells for nearly $60,000 before subsidies. A Tesla Model 3 starts at about $38,000 before subsidies. Then there is the chicken-or-egg issue of trying to get people to buy hydrogen vehicles before there is a comprehensive fueling infrastructure.

Critics, including Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, point out that hydrogen’s promoters have long failed to deliver on their promises.

In his 2003 State of the Union address, President Bush said that “the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen and pollution free.” Those hopes were propelled mainly by the rising cost of oil and natural gas at the time. After a boom in hydraulic fracturing helped drive down energy prices, hydrogen took a back seat.

Still, hydrogen’s potential continues to entice governments, researchers and corporations. Countries like France, Germany, China, Australia, South Korea and Japan have invested tens of billions of dollars in hydrogen, in part to reduce their reliance on fossil fuels and to address climate change.

Toyota, Hyundai, Daimler and several other automakers are betting on hydrogen cars and trucks. And Shell is building hydrogen stations in Europe and California.

The best use for hydrogen, some experts argue, is to power trucks, buses and airplanes. That’s because the fuel packs energy in a smaller and lighter package than the current generation of batteries, leaving more room for cargo and passengers. Hyundai is prepared to introduce the first mass-produced heavy-duty fuel-cell truck in a few months. Toyota, which has been testing fuel-cell trucks at the Port of Los Angeles since 2017, recently said it would develop heavy-duty fuel-cell trucks for North America.

Hydrogen poses a long-term threat to oil companies because it could compete with diesel and jet fuel. That is also why many large European oil and gas companies, like Shell and BP, have sought to make hydrogen part of a transition to a lower-carbon future.

Most hydrogen today is extracted from natural gas in a process that requires a lot of energy and emits carbon dioxide. But combined with carbon capture and sequestration, the process can be environmentally viable.

Over time, government officials and researchers expect most hydrogen to be made without emissions. The cleanest hydrogen production comes from using renewable electricity to split water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen. The equipment to do that is expensive, but costs have been falling in recent years, especially as wind and solar energy become the cheapest ways to generate electricity.

European oil companies are also investing in renewables so they could, eventually, pair hydrogen production with solar and wind farms.

“The oil companies are very well positioned to play in this,” said Joan Ogden, an energy researcher at the University of California, Davis. “They know how to make molecules at large scale better than anybody, they already use a lot of hydrogen in oil refining, and they are used to supplying transportation fuels.”

Businesses are exploring other approaches, too.

Air Liquide, a French company, is building a $150 million plant outside Las Vegas that will turn biogas from decomposed organic waste into hydrogen, which it plans to sell in California. The plant will begin operations late next year. Air Liquide is building another plant on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls to supply the Northeast.

“We see hydrogen as an energy vector of the future,” said Michael Graff, chairman and chief executive of American Air Liquide Holdings.

The hydrogen business may be in its infancy, but interest in it is robust and growing, said Michael Webber, a mechanical engineering professor at the University of Texas at Austin and chief science and technology officer at Engie, a French energy company.

“The customers for hydrogen are there,” Mr. Webber said. “They’re just waiting for the hydrogen to show up.”





No.6 article:
A Lack of Fans at the Masters Strains Those Who Would Sell the Experience

Passes to the Masters are some of the most expensive tickets in sports. But with fans barred from Augusta National Golf Club and other venues this year, many resellers are under pressure.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — For about two decades, James DiZoglio has run a bazaar to sell some of the most cherished tickets in sports. His scalping locale has always been the same: near the TBonz Steakhouse and the Augusta Best Inn down the street from the site of the Masters.

But Jimmy D’s Tickets’ traditional space along Washington Road has been empty this week. There are no spectators at the pandemic-upended tournament at Augusta National Golf Club, and so there are no prized badges to sell to would-be patrons, as fans are known at the Masters, for perhaps $2,000 each.

“The Masters is really, in my estimation, the biggest ticket in the world,” said DiZoglio, who estimated that some 40 percent of his business stems from this tournament, golf’s only major held at the same club every year. “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime event for a lot of people.”

This week ordinarily draws well-to-do couples, old men with their middle-aged sons on pilgrimages, corporate titans, aspiring moguls and many others to parking lots, tents and hotel-rooms-turned-offices so they can pay thousands of dollars for daily tickets with face values of $75 or $115.

Now they are not here, their absences a symptom of the crisis for the secondary-ticketing industry this year: With so few live events — and fans mostly barred from the ones that do happen — there are even fewer tickets to resell. Since the coronavirus pandemic began to grip the United States in March, just ahead of baseball season and the N.C.A.A.’s basketball tournaments, many brokers have seen revenues fall sharply. At the same time, they have faced demands for refunds, which has strained balance sheets and prompted them to turn to layoffs, furloughs and emergency grants and loans.

“Everyone is trying to navigate this runway and stay in business so that when the industry comes back, they’ll be in a position to get back to what they did before,” said Gary Adler, the executive director of the National Association of Ticket Brokers.

The Masters-linked malaise extends well beyond ticketing. The Augusta region traditionally relies on the tournament for an infusion of many millions of dollars to prop up hotels, restaurants, as well as bars and their employees.

This year, hotel rooms that are normally sold out during the Masters are vacant, available for less than $100 a night. Step into some restaurants in downtown Augusta, along the Savannah River, and you might find fewer than a dozen customers at the height of dinner hour. Traffic is barely a concern.

And there is not a ticket seller in sight to close deals or make sure existing ones proceed smoothly.

“A normal week would be being on the ground and being there for my clients,” said Amy Stephens, who said her company, Amy’s Tickets, draws about half of its revenues in conjunction with the Masters.

“It’s stressful and it’s hard and we don’t sleep much,” she added. “But it’s just the best week. Everyone who comes to the Masters is happy.”

Still, even before the pandemic, the broader secondary-ticketing industry was facing pressure, partly because of declining attendance in some sports and an increase in direct sales by teams and event promoters. TicketIQ, which tracks resale data, found, for instance, that nearly two million N.F.L. tickets were offered on the secondary market in 2013. In 2019, the number was closer to 600,000.

Beyond being a swift economic trapdoor, the pandemic may have accelerated changes that were already happening for ticket brokers, experts said.

“The way that I think about the secondary market going forward is what it was originally intended for: crazy-high-volume events where demand far outstrips supply and there’s an opportunity for people who own those tickets to sell them and make some money,” said Jesse Lawrence, TicketIQ’s founder.

The Masters will certainly be one of those events once spectators are allowed back in. Indeed, the market around the decorous and curated celebration of golf, Southern hospitality and social status has appeared largely immune from the industry’s shifts, mostly because of how Augusta National sells Masters tickets.

Rather than simply put the tickets on sale at a box office year after year, club officials effectively organize a lottery for entry to the tournament. Series badges, which allow someone to buy tickets each year, are “fully subscribed,” according to Augusta National. The waiting list for those badges has been closed since 2000, when it reopened briefly for the first time since 1978.

The system has made ticket scarcity as much a Masters tradition as the pimento cheese sandwiches ($1.50 apiece at last year’s tournament) — and turned the tournament into a beacon for scalpers, who oftentimes procure tickets from rule-defying series badge holders, and buyers alike.

Since Augusta National announced this year’s ban on patrons, Stephens, who mostly works with companies that buy tickets for employees or valued clients ahead of the tournament, has spent much of her time refunding sales that she said were collectively worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. Properties near the club that she rented out for the tournament are sitting empty.

“It’s like a tight ball of yarn that we’re unwinding,” she said. “I’m a person of faith, and I don’t know why, but I’ve handled this really well.”

Other brokers assuredly have less liquidity and have buckled. Some have declared bankruptcy, and experts believe more will follow.

Although DiZoglio described Masters scalpers as “the stronger of the lot,” the resale industry has long been replete with stress that has sometimes reached tragic extremes. In 1997, the year Tiger Woods first won the Masters, a broker who could not fill an order for about 100 badges killed himself.

More commonly, brokers eye weather forecasts and hope washouts don’t render tickets useless or relegated to bargain-basement prices. “A week’s worth of rain could destroy a lot of brokers,” said DiZoglio, who added that he had enough in savings to manage without a Masters this year.

DiZoglio also said that he had lost a family member to the virus, and that he did not begrudge Augusta National for a decision rooted in public health recommendations. “You can only be so selfish,” he said. “I can use a year off anyway. Things seem to work out for the best.”

Although Augusta National rolled sanctioned ticket purchases from this year to next April, the nature of the pandemic means there is no certainty that the club will be able to welcome spectators in the spring. The club’s chairman, Fred S. Ridley, made no commitments this week.

“We would need to see objective data that would give us a high level of confidence that we could bring large numbers of people onto the grounds for April,” he said on Wednesday, adding that it would “certainly be a wonderful circumstance if we could test large numbers of people.”

Some brokers were skeptical that potential advances like a vaccine or improved and increased testing would instantly prompt the club to reopen its gates, particularly if the coming months prove especially tragic.

“Is Augusta really going to be able to pull it off with fans in April, as we come out of a winter when it looks like we’re going to have a ton of cases?” Stephens asked before the tournament started. “I don’t think the storm is over.”





No.7 article:
Quotation of the Day: Baseball First: A Woman Rises to Run a Team

“When I got into this business, it seemed unlikely a woman would lead a major league team, but I am dogged in the pursuit of my goals.”

KIM NG, the first woman to be named the general manager of a major league baseball team, the Miami Marlins.





No.8 article:
2020 Shows Why the Electoral College Is Stupid and Immoral

It doesn’t just distort presidential elections. It infects the entire political process.

Last year I wrote that the Electoral College, an archaic and outmoded system that runs contrary to our democratic principles and intuitions, was the “greatest threat to our democracy.”

Somehow, this was an understatement.

As recently as Wednesday, according to a report by my colleague Maggie Haberman, President Trump was pressing his aides on whether Republican legislatures in key states could overturn the results of the presidential election and pick pro-Trump electors, potentially giving him a second term. It’s not likely, but the fact that it is even theoretically possible is one of the most starkly undemocratic elements of the Electoral College. If it actually happened, in 2020 or the future, it would mark the end of American democracy as we know it.

If Americans chose their president by a national popular vote, the outcome would have been apparent from the time polls closed on the West Coast on Election Day. Late that night, Joe Biden held a strong lead in ballots cast, and since then it has only grown. As of Friday morning, the president-elect led the national tally with 77.8 million votes to 72.5 million for Trump, for a spread of 5.3 million votes. With plenty of outstanding ballots left to count in Democratic strongholds like New York and California, the gap will continue to grow.

Of course, Americans don’t choose their president by national popular vote. They choose him (still him, for now) in 51 individual elections, nearly all of them winner-take-all, with special attention paid to those states competitive enough to make a difference in the fight for 270 electoral votes. No one designed this system — it bears little resemblance to the deliberative, temporary legislature empowered to pick a president described in the Constitution — but it’s what we have.

It is because the outcome depends on results in individual states — and because those results are much narrower than the national tally — that Trump can claim there is a path to reversing the outcome of the election, however ridiculous that claim is. Allege enough fraud in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Georgia and you might convince Republican state legislators to take matters into their own hands, embracing the view, first articulated by Chief Justice William Rehnquist in Bush v. Gore and then echoed in a recent opinion by Justice Brett Kavanaugh, that state legislatures have sole and exclusive power to decide election law and procedures.

What could those lawmakers do? Under the Constitution, states can allocate electors — meaning electoral votes — in “such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct.” Beginning after the Civil War, every state in the union has used direct popular election to choose electors. The modern process is straightforward. After the vote, election officials certify results and prepare “certificates of ascertainment” that establish credentials for each elector. There are multiple copies, and the governor signs each one. The electors meet, record their votes, and those votes, along with the certificates of ascertainment, are sent to state and federal officials, including the vice president, who will preside when Congress counts electoral votes early next year. If a state submits conflicting electoral votes, the House and Senate may choose which ones to accept or reject.

Under the theory of legislative supremacy over elections, however, Trump-friendly state legislatures could possibly circumvent governors and election officials to create different slates of electors to send to Congress, forcing a choice between the people’s electors and those of the legislature. It’s a move that would almost certainly force the Supreme Court to intervene, creating confusion and — more important — the sense that the outcome of the election is genuinely unsettled.

It has to be said that there is almost no chance of this happening. Pennsylvania Republicans have already ruled it out, and without the state’s electoral votes Trump has no reasonable path to a second term. Biden’s win was decisive, with hundreds of thousands of votes in five swing states separating him from Trump in the Electoral College. Republicans in Washington know this and have privately described their public statements (that the results are uncertain; that Biden is not-yet president-elect) as one part performance art for a chief executive who cannot face reality, one part a strategy to gin up turnout for the upcoming pair of runoff elections in Georgia that will determine which party controls the Senate.

But the thing about performance art is that it’s only effective when everyone knows it is a performance. Is every Republican in Michigan or Wisconsin in on the joke? Are Republican voters nationwide? If not, how can anyone really say they know when and how this game will end?

The best odds are that come Jan. 20, Joe Biden will take the oath of office as the 46th president of the United States. Many Americans will want to breathe a sigh of relief. They shouldn’t.

We are living through a period in which, for reasons of geographic polarization in particular, the Republican Party holds a powerful advantage in the Senate and the Electoral College, and a smaller one in the House of Representatives. Twice in 20 years they’ve won the White House without a majority of votes. A few shifts here and there, and Trump might have won a second term while losing by a popular vote margin nearly twice as large as the one he lost by in 2016.

The Republican Party, in other words, can win unified control of Washington without winning a majority of the vote or appealing to most Americans. Aware of this advantage, Republicans have embraced it. They’ve pinned their political hopes on our counter-majoritarian institutions, elevated minority government into a positive good (rather than a regrettable flaw of our system) and attacked the very idea that we should aspire to equality in representation. “Democracy isn’t the objective; liberty, peace, and prosperity are,” Senator Mike Lee of Utah tweeted last month. “We want the human condition to flourish. Rank democracy can thwart that.”

“Rank democracy.” Perhaps Lee, one of the leading intellectual lights of the Republican Party, is alone in his contempt for political equality between citizens. But I doubt it. And a Republican Party that holds that view is one that will do anything to win power, even if it breaks democracy. It’s a Republican Party that will suppress voters rather than persuade them, degrade an office rather than allow the opposition to wield it and create districts so slanted as to make it almost impossible for voters to remove them from office.

For that Republican Party, the Electoral College is a loaded gun, waiting to be fired. We’ll disarm and disassemble it as soon as possible, if we value this democracy of ours.





No.9 article:
Biden’s Transition Teams Suggest Tougher Wall Street Oversight

The president-elect has chosen proponents of stronger regulation to begin reviewing financial agencies.

WASHINGTON — For four years, Wall Street has benefited from the Trump administration’s push to loosen bank rules and weaken post-crisis financial regulations. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. appears ready to shift things in the opposite direction, bringing back stricter oversight of the financial industry.

The transition teams that Mr. Biden selected to review finance-related agencies are filled with proponents of stronger regulation, jarring industry groups that are suddenly fearful the moderate Democrat is preparing for an unexpected onslaught of corporate oversight. The burst of anxiety reflects the uncertainty surrounding Mr. Biden’s approach and worries of a sharp reversal from President Trump’s steady rollback of regulations across the federal government.

Among those selected for the financial regulatory transition teams are Gary Gensler, who led the Commodity Futures Trading Commission during the Obama administration. He pushed through dozens of tough rules in the wake of the 2010 Dodd Frank law, including some that the Trump administration has watered down.

Also on the teams are Leandra English, a former deputy director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Dennis Kelleher, a co-founder of Better Markets, a prominent financial reform advocacy group. Ms. English tried, unsuccessfully, to prevent Mr. Trump from installing a critic of her bureau, Mick Mulvaney, as its acting director three years ago.

The teams do not set policy or make final selections on personnel at the various agencies, but they can provide recommendations. And some members end up joining the departments they reviewed. Mr. Trump’s transition teams were filled with industry insiders, including those from Wall Street, as well as individuals with a deregulatory bent, signaling the approach the agencies would take.

The overall Biden transition team said the groups would be “responsible for understanding the operations of each agency, ensuring a smooth transfer of power.” However, their work has been delayed because of Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede defeat and grant Mr. Biden’s staff access to the departments.

While a Biden presidency may be constrained by a divided Congress, regulatory agencies wield enormous power given their ability to write and interpret rules and decide how strictly to enforce them.

For example, a Biden administration could reinstate the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s efforts to limit payday lending and install leaders at the Securities and Exchange Commission and Labor Department who support “sustainable investing.” Mr. Biden’s Treasury secretary will also have substantial oversight of the financial sector and be in a position to bolster bodies such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the interagency panel that the Trump administration has starved of funding and staff.

That power has some banking officials worried about the makeup of the transition teams.

“They won the election, and they have the right to choose whoever they so desire,” said Richard Hunt, chief executive of the Consumer Bankers Association, an industry group. “I thought it was a missed opportunity by the president-elect to appoint people who have experience in banking as well as consumer activists.”

But proponents of a return to stricter oversight say the time has come for the pendulum to swing back and for regulators to stop relaxing rules on an industry that has raked in record profits over the past several years. Some view the “landing teams” as a sign that Mr. Biden is heeding the concerns of the progressive wing of his party and planning to put consumers ahead of corporations.

And banks are not without a say in Washington.

“They get their voices heard enough — we know what they think,” Anat R. Admati, a professor of finance and economics at Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business and an expert in regulation, said of the banks. “There are a lot of people hurting in this economy. The financial sector is not among them.”

The Federal Reserve and its fellow regulatory agencies spent the Trump administration eroding financial industry protections that were put in place after the economic crisis a decade ago. Among other changes, stress tests for big banks are more predictable, oversight is less onerous for all but the largest bank holding companies, and restrictions that prevented banks from betting for their own profit have been slightly relaxed. Perhaps most important, the tone of bank oversight has been more industry friendly — relevant because so much of the real work happens at the institution level, carried out by supervisors.

Financial industry lobbyists remain hopeful that Republicans will retain control of the Senate by winning both runoff elections in Georgia in January. That could force Mr. Biden to select more moderate nominees for key regulatory posts. But once in place, his personnel will have latitude to set a new tone for enforcement and rule-making.

“I’m actually cautiously optimistic that there will be an appetite for repairing the damage that’s been done in the Trump administration,” said Barbara Roper, director of investor protection for the Consumer Federation of America. “I think you could get more progressive policies, better rules.”

Ms. Roper said a Biden administration could bring a long-needed overhaul of American accounting standards and reverse Trump administration rules that benefited private equity. In June, for example, the Labor Department issued a rule allowing private-equity investments in 401(k) retirement plans.

“Private funds that have been counting on getting unfettered access to people’s retirement account should begin rethinking their strategy,” Ms. Roper said.

The Biden campaign does not permit members of the agency review teams to talk to the media, so it is difficult to know what they are thinking and planning. But it is clear that their ability to affect immediate change in financial regulation could be constrained by a last-minute push by Republicans to get two remaining Trump nominees onto the Federal Reserve Board.

Senate Republicans made clear on Thursday that they will try to confirm the pair, Judy Shelton and Christopher Waller, before Mr. Trump leaves office. If both are approved, which appears likely, Mr. Trump will have filled six of the seven seats on the powerful Fed board, locking in a conservative majority that could last for years and potentially pave the way for a continuation of lighter-touch financial oversight.

While the Fed may be best known for setting interest rates — a largely nonpartisan exercise — it is also among the most powerful financial regulators. And while monetary policy votes are shared with the Fed’s regional banks, only board members have votes on the rules that govern the largest banks.

There will be limitations on what a Republican-heavy Fed can accomplish on its own. Many of the more important bank restrictions — like tweaks to the Volcker Rule, which prevents banks from betting with their own money — have historically been made on a cross-agency basis.

Jelena McWilliams, whom Mr. Trump appointed chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has signaled that she plans to serve out her full term, which does not end until 2023. But Mr. Biden will be able to replace the acting comptroller of the currency quickly and is expected to do so, and other important roles, like Treasury secretary and head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, are likely to go swiftly to Democrats.

That is why the industry is attuned to who is on the agency review teams, which could set the tone for what is coming.

“It will be a significant change in the orientation of financial regulation if these people are going to be the ones writing the policies,” said Christopher E. Campbell, assistant secretary of the Treasury for financial institutions from 2017-18. “From my perspective, the landing teams were folks that appeared to be more activist than centrist.”





No.10 article:
Could State Legislatures Pick Electors to Vote for Trump? Not Likely

Some Trump allies have suggested that Republican lawmakers should override the will of voters who elected Joe Biden the next president.

President Trump’s last-ditch efforts to reverse the election seem to come down to a far-fetched scenario, one in which Republican-led state legislatures choose the members of the Electoral College, overturning the will of voters.

Could it work? Election law experts are highly skeptical. And leaders of the Republican majorities in legislatures in key states, including Pennsylvania, Michigan, Arizona and Georgia, told The New York Times this week through their offices that they saw no role for themselves in picking electors.

That has not stopped some high-profile supporters of the president, including the talk radio host Mark Levin and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, from suggesting that Republican-led legislatures should consider ignoring the popular vote in close-fought states won by President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and handing their electoral votes to Mr. Trump.

This political gambit, to the degree that it’s an organized strategy at all, has a theoretical basis in law, according to experts. But if it were to proceed, it could cause widespread outrage and be seen as an attempt to subvert the democratic process.

Benjamin Ginsberg, until recently one of the Republican Party’s top elections lawyers, called the strategy an act of desperation, one that many Republican lawmakers would not buy into. “The most partisan Trump legislators might, but I believe enough would rebel at hijacking their constituents’ votes that such actions would fail,” he said.

Here’s how such a scheme would theoretically play out. The Constitution gives state legislatures the power to determine the “manner” in which electors are appointed to the Electoral College, the body of 538 people who formally choose the president. Every state has already done that, by specifying in its laws that the winner of the statewide popular vote is entitled to the state’s presidential electors (Maine and Nebraska apportion some electors by congressional district).

The Electoral Count Act, a 19th-century law, sets up the mechanism for how that takes place. It directs governors to certify both the election results and a slate of presidential electors to represent the will of the people. In general practice, governors certify electors chosen by the party of the presidential candidate who won their state.

The Electoral Count Act also says that in the event of “failed elections,” in which voters have not made a choice for president, state legislatures are empowered to step in and appoint electors. The 1887 law is ambiguous about what constitutes a “failed” election. But the law does contain a deadline for states to certify elections: the “safe harbor” date, which this year is Dec. 8. Electors chosen before that date cannot be challenged by Congress.

A flurry of lawsuits filed by the Trump campaign, most of which have been defeated in court, appear aimed at slowing down states’ certification timelines and possibly providing a pretext to declare a “failed” election.

At the same time, election law experts said none of the lawsuits presented evidence of widespread fraud that could reverse Mr. Trump’s deficits. With Arizona and Georgia added to Mr. Biden’s column this week, he has comfortably won the election with 306 projected electoral votes, 36 more than needed for a majority.

Bob Bauer, a leading Democratic elections lawyer and senior adviser to the Biden campaign, dismissed the notion of legislatures picking electors. “When all is said and done, you can’t stop the process from coming to the inevitable conclusion,” he said.

The idea of legislatures intervening for Mr. Trump gained currency in the days after Election Day, following months of Mr. Trump’s raging that the election would be “rigged,” a baseless accusation, although one embraced by many of his supporters.

On Nov. 5, as Pennsylvania’s gradual counting of mail-in ballots eroded Mr. Trump’s edge in the votes cast on Election Day, the Fox News commentator Sean Hannity suggested the results should be invalidated. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a staunch Trump supporter, responded, “I think everything should be on the table.”

Earlier that day, Mr. Levin, the conservative radio host, had urged Republican state lawmakers to “get ready to do your constitutional duty,” writing in all capital letters on Twitter.

He was retweeted by the president’s son Donald Trump Jr. And Mr. DeSantis, the Florida governor, urged voters in Michigan and Pennsylvania, both with Republican-majority legislatures, to call lawmakers, who have it in their power to “provide remedies,” he said on Fox News.

Michigan’s attorney general, Dana Nessel, a Democrat, told reporters this week that it appeared the Trump lawsuits were aimed at stopping county and state boards from certifying the election, so that the Legislature could send “a faithless slate of electors” to support Mr. Trump.

A spokeswoman for Michigan’s Senate majority leader said that state law did not allow the Legislature to directly select electors or to award electors to anyone besides the winner of the popular vote. Mr. Biden won the state by nearly 150,000 votes.

In Pennsylvania, where Mr. Biden’s winning margin is currently more than 58,000 votes and the Trump campaign is in court asking for a delay in certifying the results, Republican leaders of the State Senate and House of Representatives said before Election Day that the General Assembly would have no role in choosing electors.

Pressed on the issue last week during a telephone news conference, Jake Corman, the Senate majority leader, said that “under normal circumstances,” the Legislature would have no role.

“Well, under any circumstances?” Mr. Corman was asked. He reiterated that Gov. Tom Wolf, a Democrat, appoints electors, not lawmakers.

At the same time, Republicans in the Pennsylvania General Assembly moved to conduct a review of the election and asked the governor to delay certification of the results, which is unlikely.

In North Carolina, which news organizations said Mr. Trump had won on Friday, spokesmen for the Republican leaders of both chambers of the General Assembly said lawmakers would have no role in choosing electors. “State law outlines a legal process that has the political parties designate electors to be appointed by the governor,” said Patrick Ryan, a spokesman for Phil Berger, the State Senate’s president pro tem. “We anticipate that process will be followed this year just as it has in the past.”

In Arizona, Mike Philipsen, a spokesman for the Senate’s Republican leadership, citing an internal legal memo, said, “The Legislature cannot change the 2020 election results through changing the statutory selection process for presidential electors.” Mr. Biden won Arizona by more than 10,000 votes.

And in Georgia, where officials agreed to a Trump campaign demand that they recount more than 4.9 million votes — an effort that most likely will cost taxpayers in the millions of dollars — officials showed no inclination to appease the Trump forces by disrupting the Electoral College system. Mr. Biden’s lead in Georgia is more than 14,000 votes, which news outlets deemed sufficient for victory on Friday.

An unusual joint statement Tuesday by Gov. Brian Kemp, Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan and House Speaker David Ralston — all Republicans — declined calls for a special legislative session on election issues.

“Any changes to Georgia’s election laws made in a special session will not have any impact on an ongoing election and would only result in endless litigation,” the statement said.

The Georgia General Assembly is not scheduled to convene until Jan. 11 — well after the electors meet in state capitols around the country to formally vote for president on Dec. 14.





No.11 article:
Paul Hornung, Midcentury Football’s ‘Golden Boy,’ Is Dead at 84

His dazzling play at Notre Dame, a Hall of Fame Career with the Green Bay Packers, matinee-idol looks and a playboy image made him a national celebrity in the ’50s and ’60s.

Paul Hornung, one of the most versatile and glamorous football stars of the modern game, the “Golden Boy” quarterback from Notre Dame who won championships as a running back with Vince Lombardi’s Green Bay Packers but whose image was tarnished by gambling and carousing, died on Friday in Louisville, Ky. He was 84.

His wife and only immediate survivor, Angela Hornung, said that the cause was dementia and that he died at a senior living facility.

Hornung filed a lawsuit in July 2016 seeking damages against Riddell, the longtime supplier of helmets to the N.F.L., saying he was suffering from “dementia and other neurodegenerative disease(s) caused by repetitive head trauma” as a result of Riddell’s failure to inform players that it knew its helmets could not prevent concussions.

The suit said he had incurred numerous concussions while wearing Riddell helmets as a Packer. His case was later consolidated with many others filed by former N.F.L. players against Riddell and was in federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

Hornung, who won the 1956 Heisman Trophy with Notre Dame, could run, throw passes and catch them, block, place-kick and punt, and he returned kicks and played defense too. In nine professional seasons he helped propel the Packers to four National Football League championships and led the N.F.L. in scoring from 1959 to 1961.

Hornung was the fourth Hall of Fame Packer from the Lombardi era to die this year. The others were safety Willie Wood (in February), defensive end Willie Davis (in April) and cornerback Herb Adderley (in October).

Hornung scored a record 176 points in the 12-game 1960 season on 15 touchdowns, 41 extra points and 15 field goals. He also passed for two touchdowns that year.

Hornung was the league’s most valuable player in 1961, when he scored a championship-game record 19 points (on a rushing touchdown, four extra points and three field goals) in the Packers’ 37-0 victory over the Giants.

All the while he pursued a robust night life of women and drink that seemed to have little effect on his on-field performance. His movie-star looks certainly had something to do with the attention: He was blond and handsome, 6 feet 2 inches and 215 pounds. He wore No. 5 in honor of his boyhood idol, Joe DiMaggio.

But Hornung’s career was marred when the N.F.L. commissioner, Pete Rozelle, suspended him indefinitely in the spring of 1963 for gambling on pro football, including Packer games, over several seasons. Hornung said he had bet on Green Bay only to win, and the league found no evidence to the contrary, but he remained suspended for the entire season. The ban was an outgrowth of an N.F.L. drive against gambling by players that also brought a one-year suspension for Alex Karras, the Detroit Lions’ star defensive tackle.

The Packers also won the N.F.L. championship in 1962 but did not repeat in 1963.

Hornung had to wait until 1986, his 15th time on the ballot, to be selected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, evidently because of his suspension.

“I don’t see this as Paul Hornung being vindicated,” he told The Associated Press when he was finally elected to the hall, in Canton, Ohio. “I never considered myself a villain, but obviously some people did.”

When Hornung was inducted, his Packer Hall of Fame teammates marveled at his accomplishments.

“I’ve never seen a guy more effective inside the 20-yard line,” the former Green Bay offensive tackle Forrest Gregg told The A.P. “You could hand off to him or throw a pass to him and somehow he would get the ball in the end zone.” Bart Starr, the Packer quarterback, called him “one of the best clutch players ever.”

Paul Vernon Hornung was born in Louisville on Dec. 23, 1935, and raised there by his divorced mother, Loretta Hornung. He was recruited out of high school by Bear Bryant, then the head coach at the University of Kentucky, but chose Notre Dame to please his mother, who was a devout Roman Catholic.

In his junior year at Notre Dame, Hornung was primarily a running back and a safety. As a senior, switching to quarterback, he ran or passed for 1,337 yards and continued to excel in the defensive secondary. He became the first player to win the Heisman Trophy with a losing team: Notre Dame had a 2-8 record in 1956.

Hornung was chosen by the Packers as the No. 1 overall pick in the 1957 N.F.L. draft.

The Packers, having floundered for many years, continued to struggle in Hornung’s first two pro seasons, but everything began to change in 1959, when Lombardi, formerly the Giants’ offensive coach, was named head coach at Green Bay.

Lombardi preached discipline, but Hornung, free-spirited as he was, became one of his favorites, and he installed him at left halfback, the key man in what became Green Bay’s signature play, the Packer sweep.

The offensive linemen — Jim Ringo at center, Jerry Kramer and Fuzzy Thurston at guard, Bob Skoronski and Gregg at tackle, and Ron Kramer or Gary Knafelc at tight end — along with fullback Jim Taylor, a superb runner in his own right — supplied the blocking. Hornung would run wide, then look for a hole, but he might also throw to receivers like Boyd Dowler and Max McGee, who was often his pal on the nightclub scene.

The Packers defeated the American Football League’s Kansas City Chiefs, 35-10, in the first Super Bowl, played at the Los Angeles Coliseum in January 1967, but by then Hornung had reached the end of his career. Hampered by arm and knee injuries, he didn’t play in the game. The New Orleans Saints selected him in the 1967 expansion draft, but he retired because of injury problems.

Playing his entire pro career in Packers’ green and gold, Hornung scored 760 points on 62 touchdowns, 190 points-after and 66 field goals. He gained 3,711 yards rushing and 1,480 yards on pass receptions.

He later invested in real estate and other business ventures, became a popular figure in Miller Lite beer commercials and broadcast college and pro football. He created a stir in a March 2004 interview with a Detroit radio station when he said that Notre Dame needed to ease its academic standards to “get the Black athlete.” A spokesman for Notre Dame called the remark “insulting.” Although Hornung expressed regret for the comment, he discontinued his broadcasts of his alma mater’s games for Westwood One radio, saying that “Notre Dame does not want me there.”

His wife, Angela (Cervilli) Hornung, also sued Riddell in 2016, citing the loss of Hornung’s companionship because of his disabilities. His first marriage, to Patricia Roeder, ended in divorce. He had no children from either marriage and no siblings.

In his autobiography, “Golden Boy” (2004, with William F. Reed), Hornung alternated accounts of his football feats with tales of his amorous conquests and his drinking.

He said that his playboy reputation had caught the attention of the syndicated gossip columnist Walter Winchell, who wrote in an early 1964 item: “Myrna Loy is being rushed by Paul Hornung, the football glamour boy. He long distances the one-time Hollywood star from his Old Kentucky Home.”

Hornung told a reporter who inquired about the item that he had never even spoken to Ms. Loy and that Winchell might have confused her with an aspiring actress named Myrna Ross, with whom he had one date.

Hornung expressed few regrets about his nightlife.

“I’m sure that during my playing days I wasn’t considered a good role model for the nation’s youth,” he wrote in his memoir. “But the way times have changed, I’d look like an altar boy if I played today. I never beat up a woman, carried a gun or a knife, shot somebody, or got arrested for disturbing the peace. I never even experimented with drugs during the season.

“All I did, really,” he went on, “was seek out fun wherever I could find it. Everything was all tied in together — the drinking, the womanizing, the partying, the traveling, the gambling. And, of course, football made it all possible.”





No.12 article:
Nigeria Goes on Offensive Against Youth Protesting Police Brutality

Young people staged the biggest anti-government uprising in a generation, triggered by relentless police brutality. Rattled, politicians are promising reforms, but using repressive tactics, large and small.

LAGOS, Nigeria — Nigeria’s leaders have made a show of responding to the demands of a massive youth-led uprising over police brutality that recently brought the country to a standstill and captured global attention.

The government has commissioned panels of inquiry into police brutality, and the presidentpromised to disband the notoriously abusive police unit known as the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, or SARS.

But at the same time, protesters say that the government is conducting a targeted campaign against people associated with the uprising in order to harass, impede and break up the movement — destroying any good faith the government had hoped to build.

“They are persecuting peaceful, and actually quite patriotic young people,” said Chidi Odinkalu, senior manager for Africa at the Open Society Justice Initiative.

Nigeria — Africa’s most populous nation — was turned upside down last month by an uprising that grew into the largest popular resistance the government has faced in years. The demonstrations began as an outcry against the SARS police unit, but evolved into a larger protest over bad governance.

The government has adopted a two-pronged strategy to try to put a stop to the uproar. It has tried to persuade people that it is listening to the protesters — commissioning panels of inquiry and announcing that SARS is being disbanded. But it is simultaneously using its power to repress and intimidate activists by throwing many people in jail, and harassing others in ways large and small.

One example of the government’s two-faced approach was on display last week in a packed hearing room in Lagos overlooking the ocean, where a panel was supposed to be holding a hearing on police brutality.

Two young activists had been invited to join the panel to represent the protesters. But the youth panelists boycotted the hearing because Nigeria’s Central Bank had just frozen a bank account belonging to one of them, claiming it was linked to terrorists. In recent weeks, at least 20 activists and organizations have had their accounts frozen by the Central Bank.

“How can I be asking as a citizen of my country for better government, for an end to police brutality,” said Bolatito Olorunrinu, one of the youth panelists, a 22 year old student at Lagos State University, “and my government turns around to tag me a terrorist? It’s saddening.”

Warned of threats to their safety, some high-profile activists with the movement, known by the hashtag #EndSARS, have gone into hiding or left the country. There was a public outcry when Modupe Odele, a lawyer helping the protesters, said that her passport was confiscated at the airport. She says was prevented from traveling, but recently was given her passport back.

The country’s top police official said earlier this month that his officers had arrested over 1,500 people during and after the protests suspected of taking part in violence.

The government has moved to use its authority to shut down the movement. Lagos, Nigeria’s biggest city, banned demonstrations. Powerful state governors in the country’s north last week called for censorship of social media, which had played a decisive role in mobilizing the marches.

Like the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States, #EndSARS was triggered by viral videos of police brutality that documented a decades-long pattern of violence. And similar to the protesters behind the Arab Spring, young people used social media to coordinate protests on a scale that frightened authorities accustomed to being in control.

These days, Muhammadu Buhari is Nigeria’s democratically elected civilian president. But in the 1980s, he was the country’s military ruler, with a fondness for discipline — famously forcing civil servants late to work to perform frog jumps.

Despite trying to reassure young people last month that their voices had been heard “loud and clear,” his pronouncements have come across as highhanded and disingenuous. Nigerians are wary that his authoritarian tendencies, his General Buhari side, is showing through.

On Oct. 20, the military was deployed to the site of a long-running peaceful #EndSARS protest in Lekki, an affluent area of Lagos, shortly after sunset. Floodlights were turned off. Then the soldiers began to shoot.

It is still not known how many people died that night, though a popular disc jockey who broadcast the shooting live on her Instagram — Obianuju Catherine Udeh, known as DJ Switch — said she saw at least 15 dead bodies, and that security forces took them away. Amnesty International said police and soldiers killed at least 12.

Abuses by Nigerian security forces are nothing new. In the northeast, home to the terrorist group Boko Haram, women have been raped by soldiers and babies and children locked up. In the capital, Abuja, and the nearby city of Kaduna, minority Shiite protesters have been killed.

But #EndSARS had attracted social media influencers, musicians, Nollywood actors and reality TV stars. The Lekki incident drew international condemnation, including from President-elect Joseph R. Biden and Beyoncé.

“It’s one thing to shoot protesters in the relative backwaters of Kaduna,” said Mr. Odinkalu. “It’s another thing to shoot protesters under the clear gaze of upmarket Lagos. The political ramifications are higher.”

The Lekki shooting was one of the things the Lagos inquiry has been investigating, before it was boycotted over the frozen bank account. Adesina Ogunlana, a lawyer who appeared at the hearing and said that he represented the #EndSARS movement, compared the Lekki shootings to tinko, a kind of Nigerian sun-dried meat.

“Looks small. But when you put it in your mouth and chew, it gets bigger. Gets bigger. Gets bigger,” said Mr. Ogunlana, who carried a well-thumbed copy of Malcolm Gladwell’s “David and Goliath” to the hearings last week, and nibbled bitter kola to fortify himself.

Lekki was just one case of abuse, “but it involves the military, it involves the Lagos state government,” he said. “And of course it involves thousands and thousands and thousands of young Nigerians.”

At the Lagos inquiry last month, the panel listened to a businessman testify that in 2018, SARS police threw him from a two-story building, breaking his spine. They heard a father of five describe having been tortured for 47 days by SARS operatives accusing him of theft.

Lawyers who have worked on many such cases are unable to name a single case in which a perpetrator in the security forces has been disciplined or prosecuted.

Where it can, experts say, the government has gone after #EndSARS protesters instead. But this has not been straightforward, because the movement has few easily identifiable leaders.

“There is no oga,” or big boss, said Jola Ayeye recently on the popular podcast she co-hosts.

As the #EndSARS protests waned, word began to spread that state governments were hiding food donated by some of Nigeria’s wealthiest individuals, which should have been distributed to its poorest to sustain them during the pandemic lockdown.

Many Nigerians suspect that governors had been holding onto the supplies in order to hand them out when they were in need of political support.

This sent more waves of people into the streets across the country. Crowds of people broke into warehouses, carrying off sacks of rice and cartons of noodles. In some places, people destroyed property.

Then came arrests.

“They just rounded up people on the streets with no evidence, no anything. Lots of people in jail,” said Yemi Adamolekun, executive director of Enough Is Enough Nigeria, a nonprofit promoting good governance and accountability. “Police brutality has increased significantly.”

Now that the protests have ended the streets are pretty much back to normal.

In Surulere, an old suburb of Lagos, traffic jams have replaced the crowds of demonstrators flapping the national green and white flag. Hawkers are back outside the market, selling strings of mock coral beads and books promising the secrets to amassing great wealth. Residents are no longer terrified of venturing out lest they catch a bullet.

But in a country where mostly older, wealthy men govern a population with a median age of 18 and an average annual income of $2,200, now that the youth have discovered the power of their protest muscle, they say they very well might use it again.

“You never can tell what is going to trigger another protest,” said Ariyo-Dare Atoye, the convener of the Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution.

“People will have justification to do it again,” he said, because the government has been given enough time to respond to the issues.





No.13 article:
Aldo Tambellini, Avant-Garde Filmmaker and Video Artist, Dies at 90

A fixture of the Lower East Side’s ’60s art scene, he had an abiding interest in black. “‘Black,’” he wrote, “is not the opposite of white; it is a state of being.”

Aldo Tambellini, a sculptor turned avant-garde filmmaker, pioneer video artist and veteran practitioner of multimedia installations, died on Thursday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90.

Anna Salamone, his partner and only immediate survivor, said he had died of complications following surgery at Spaulding Hospital.

Mr. Tambellini was notable for his community-based sense of cultural production, particularly during his years as an artist-activist on Manhattan’s Lower East Side. He was even more famous for his career-long interest in the color (or noncolor) black.

“It is striking that one of the true pioneers of video has seemed to base his entire production on a rejection of the centrality of light,” a critic observed in the magazine Artforum on the occasion of Mr. Tambellini’s 2012 retrospective at the Tate Modern in London. But for Mr. Tambellini, black was something more illuminating than the absence of light.

“‘Black’ is the expansion of consciousness in all directions,” he wrote in a 1967 manifesto, “Black Is the Awareness of a New Reality,” republished 42 years later in a catalog for his retrospective at the Pierre Menard Gallery in Cambridge, Mass.  “I see ‘Black’ very clearly as the beginning of all things; and in the beginning it was ‘Black’ before the beginning. There was ‘Black’ before there was light in the whole universe. There is ‘Black’ inside the womb before the child is born. ‘Black’ is not the opposite of white; it is a state of being. We come from this womb. We come from this planet enveloped by ‘Black.’”

Mr. Tambellini also liked to dress in black. John G. Hanhardt, a former film and video curator for the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, described him as “charismatic” and “a really important figure in the late 1960s.”

Mr. Hanhardt recalled that he had included the Tambellini video piece “Black Spiral” in a 1994 Whitney show marking the 25th anniversary of “TV as a Creative Medium,” the historic 1969 exhibition at the Howard Wise Gallery in Manhattan. At that time, Mr. Hanhardt said, Mr. Tambellini was living in Massachusetts and no longer “a presence” in the art world.

Aldo Tambellini was born in Syracuse, N.Y., on April 20, 1930, the second son of John and Gina (Puccinelli) Tambellini. His father, a hotel waiter, was born in Brazil, where his father, an Italian immigrant, had established a coffee plantation. Mr. Tambellini’s mother had immigrated to the United States from a village in Tuscany.

His parents separated when Aldo was a baby, and he was sent to live with relatives in Italy amid the trauma of World War II. After the war, Mr. Tambellini returned to the United States with his mother. He studied art at Syracuse University and the University of Notre Dame before moving to the Lower East Side in 1959.

There, he began making sculptures using detritus harvested from demolished buildings. He considered his storefront studio a community space and developed an empty lot as an ad hoc sculpture garden. Though he rejected any connection with the established art world, Mr. Tambellini was associated with a number of Lower East Side artist groups, including the Center, which he founded, the Umbra poetry collective and the NO! art movement. He would later be affiliated with the European group ZERO.

Like many artists of the 1960s, Mr. Tambellini was influenced by the writings of the media theorist Marshall McLuhan, emblazoning one painting with the slogan “We are the primitives of a new era,” a nod to McLuhan. He began projecting handmade slides he called lumagrams on the sides of buildings, and he made movies, largely without a camera, that involved painting on or scratching the film emulsion. Screened as an example of psychedelic cinema, the experimental film “Black Is” was described by Dan Sullivan in The New York Times as “a dazzling succession of black-on-white and white-on-black splotches, dots, zigzags and starbursts.”

In 1966, Mr. Tambellini and his wife at the time, Elsa Tambellini, opened the Gate, a 200-seat theater at Second Avenue and 10th Street in the heart of the East Village. (The couple separated in the early 1970s.) Among the work screened there were early films by Brian De Palma, Jack Smith’s “No President” and Robert Downey’s absurd comedy “Chafed Elbows,” which ran for six months — sometimes shown on a double bill with Kenneth Anger’s “Scorpio Rising” — becoming something of an underground blockbuster.

The Gate also presented plays by, among others, LeRoi Jones (later known as Amiri Baraka). And on weekend midnights it provided a venue for “When Queens Collide” and other cross-dressing spectacles by Charles Ludlam’s Ridiculous Theatrical Company.

The Gate was itself a notable environment. Describing “the theaters of the underground” in Artforum, the critic and painter Manny Farber wrote that the Gate “starts as an entrance to an old apartment house, moves through a 1920s marble hallway, and engulfs the customer in a black chamber.”

“God help him,” he added. “The big sensation here is the ancient unreliable floor, which, like the ceiling in this blitzed miniature cathedral, is indescribable. Sometimes, the shredded carpeting, with its patches of masking tape, feels as spongy and sandy as the beach at Waikiki.”

Mr. Tambellini orchestrated what he called “electromedia” shows that involved slides, films, stroboscopic lights, dance, recorded sound and live music. In 1967, he and the German kinetic artist Otto Piene opened a second theater, the Black Gate, in an upstairs loft. This became a showcase for avant-garde artists like Yayoi Kusama, Nam June Paik and Charlotte Moorman.

Mr. Tambellini’s own pieces could be quite dramatic. Reporting in The Times on the electromedia event “Black Zero,” which had its premiere at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1968, Grace Glueck wrote that “Mr. Tambellini’s work got off to a slow start, but turned out to be something of a stunner.” The piece began with a taped voice indicting racial injustice in America and “gradually built up visual and aural imagery — sound, word, music, lights and slide projections — to a shattering crescendo.”

Toward the end, Ms. Glueck wrote, “a huge black balloon began to swell.”

“As it reached the bursting point,&quot; she continued, “something unplanned happened. It broke from its mooring and floated threateningly out over the audience, at whose hands it was finally exploded.”

Her review concluded that “as a symbolic comment on the explosive racial situation in this country, Mr. Tambellini’s work was a painfully literal experience. On another level, as well, it was a highly effective piece of abstract theater.”

Mr. Tambellini began working with video technology in the late 1960s. Along with Mr. Paik and Mr. Piene, he was one of the first video artists to have his pieces shown in a New York gallery and broadcast on television. While “Black TV” (1968) compressed two years of television news reports into a nine-and-a-half-minute barrage of sound and image, Mr. Tambellini also made more straightforward recordings. In 1971, he documented the meetings and activities of the Italian-American Civil Rights League, including the Columbus Circle rally in which the league’s founder, Joseph A. Colombo Sr., was assassinated.

Mr. Tambellini left New York in the mid-1970s, joining Mr. Piene as a fellow at the Center for Advanced Visual Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass. He described his work there as “developing the concept of Communicationsphere, working with interactive telecommunications systems, primarily slow scan television and two-way cable TV.”

Mr. Tambellini’s early work was rediscovered in his later years and embraced by the art world he had largely disdained as commercial, retrograde and elitist. In 2009, “Black Zero” was recreated as part of the New York City performance biennial Performa. In 2013, a year after his career retrospective at the Tate Modern in London, he had an extensive one-man show at the James Cohan Gallery in Manhattan. In 2015, he was invited to exhibit a new installation in the Italian Pavilion at the 2015 Venice Biennale.

That same year, one of his more contemplative video pieces, the multichannel “Atlantic in Brooklyn,” dating from the early 1970s and consisting of footage that Mr. Tambellini had shot from his studio window overlooking the future site of the Barclays Center, was digitally remastered and reinstalled in a Brooklyn gallery. Reviewing the piece in The Times, Martha Schwendener wrote that “for New York audiences, ‘Atlantic in Brooklyn’ is an essential chapter in local and cinema history.”

The same could be said for Mr. Tambellini’s artistic career.





No.14 article:
In Rural ‘Dead Zones,’ School Comes on a Flash Drive

Millions of American students lack reliable internet access. Some are learning in parking lots connected to Wi-Fi buses or crashing with relatives to get online.

Shekinah and Orlandria Lennon were sitting at their kitchen table this fall, taking online classes, when video of their teachers and fellow students suddenly froze on their laptop screens. The wireless antenna on the roof had stopped working, and it could not be fixed.

Desperate for a solution, their mother called five broadband companies, trying to get connections for their home in Orrum, N.C., a rural community of fewer than 100 people with no grocery store or traffic lights.

All the companies gave the same answer: Service is not available in your area.

The response is the same across broad stretches of Robeson County, N.C., a swath of small towns and rural places like Orrum dotted among soybean fields and hog farms on the South Carolina border. About 20,000 of the county’s homes, or 43 percent of all households, have no internet connection.

The technology gap has prompted teachers to upload lessons on flash drives and send them home to dozens of students every other week. Some children spend school nights crashing at more-connected relatives’ homes so they can get online for classes the next day.

“It’s not fair,” said Shekinah, 17, who, after weeks trying to stay connected to classes through her cellphone, was finally able to get online regularly again last month through a Wi-Fi hot spot provided by the school. “I don’t think just the people who live in the city should have internet. We need it in the country, too.”

Millions of American students are grappling with the same challenges, learning remotely without adequate home internet service. Even as school districts like the one in Robeson County have scrambled to provide students with laptops, many who live in low-income and rural communities continue to have difficulty logging on.

About 15 million K-12 students lived in households without adequate online connectivity in 2018, according to a study of federal data by Common Sense Media, an education nonprofit group that tracks children’s media use.

Before the coronavirus, that was mainly an obstacle for students doing homework, and it was an issue that state and federal officials struggled to address. But the pandemic turned the lack of internet connectivity into a nationwide emergency: Suddenly, millions of schoolchildren were cut off from digital learning, unable to maintain virtual “attendance” and marooned socially from their classmates.

The Trump administration has done little to expand broadband access for students, both before and during the pandemic, said James P. Steyer, the chief executive of Common Sense Media. “There was no federal strategy, and it was left to the individual states to come up with a patchwork of solutions,” he said.

When Congress passed a coronavirus relief package in March, it provided billions of dollars for emergency education needs, but none specifically for closing the digital divide. Despite advocacy from groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Steyer said, Republican leaders in Congress blocked efforts to add such funds.

“The tragedy is this is not a Democratic or Republican problem,” Mr. Steyer said. “It is simply not fair that a poor family in a rural area or a low-income urban area does not have the resources to send their kids to school in this pandemic.”

Desperate for workarounds, schools across the country have scrambled to distribute mobile hot spots and internet-equipped iPads. Districts everywhere from Wisconsin to Kansas to Alabama have transformed idle school buses into roving Wi-Fi vehicles that park in neighborhoods so students can sit nearby and log in to classes.

In Baltimore, where a recent study found that nearly 20,000 households with school-age children lacked broadband internet or computers, the public school system is providing internet connectivity to an estimated 44,000 students, or 55 percent of the district’s total enrollment, officials said.

The challenge of closing the digital divide can be particularly daunting in states like North Carolina, home to the nation’s second-largest rural population and a geography that spans mountains, swamps and barrier islands.

About 100,000 of the state’s 1.5 million K-12 students were unable to connect to online services in August, according to the Department of Information Technology. More than 75,300 cellular hot spots were provided to schools by late October, and the state is trying to connect other students with public Wi-Fi locations and community grants for broadband infrastructure.

But politics has also hampered the state’s connectivity. In 2016, Republican state lawmakers won a legal battle to halt the spread of municipal broadband providers, which had increased competition by serving residents where commercial networks had been unwilling to go.

In Orange County, which is home to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and just west of some of the state’s biggest cities, more than 5,200 households lack broadband internet access, including an estimated 1,100 students in the local school district, said Monique Felder, the superintendent.

She noted with frustration that the district is just a few miles away from the state’s prominent Research Triangle Park, where IBM, Cisco and dozens of other information technology companies employ thousands of people.

“It’s un-American,” said Ms. Felder, who pointed to unaffordable pricing and a lack of cell towers as having contributed to the problem. “I can’t wrap my head around the fact that we live in a place where you have all this technology, yet we have families who can’t access the internet in the comfort of their home.”

In September, the district’s school board voted to continue with remote learning for most students through the end of the semester, citing health concerns, despite Ms. Felder’s recommendation to hold a combination of in-person and online classes.

To help students connect, the district has distributed over 1,500 hot spots, often several to each family. Yellow buses outfitted with Wi-Fi regularly rumble outside apartment complexes and housing developments. And for weeks, shuttered school cafeterias, once redolent with the scent of chicken nuggets and quesadillas, functioned as internet hubs.

But with no child care provided, few parents brought their children, prompting the district to close them last month.

Today, many parents use a map of public Wi-Fi locations to help their children get online, and students can often be seen hunched over laptops in cars parked within the invisible range of wireless routers. “It just adds insult to injury when you’re forced to sit in a McDonald’s parking lot to learn,” Ms. Felder said.

For months, Ms. Felder and other local officials have been lobbying the state for systemic solutions, rather than Band-Aid fixes like hot spots. “We need cell towers and broadband,” she said. “That’s something we cannot build ourselves. We need the government to step in and make this happen.”

The strain is even more profound a two hours’ drive south in Robeson County, where coronavirus test positivity rates have consistently been more than double the state’s 5 percent benchmark for reopening, leading the school board to extend remote learning through December, a district spokesman said.

Sherry Park, the principal of South Robeson Intermediate School, said about 60 of her 310 students live in cell service “dead zones.” Every two weeks, their parents come to the school to exchange drives filled with completed schoolwork for new ones, uploaded with lesson videos and assignments.

Sharon Hunt works 12- to 14-hour days teaching eighth-grade math at the school. In a voice frayed by exhaustion, she described a grueling schedule: teaching online in an empty classroom from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., after which she returns home to spend several more hours compiling flash drive presentations before grading assignments.

Most of her students live in rural areas, and half of the students in one of her classes have no internet access. One family has to walk to the nearest crossroad to get cellphone reception. Ms. Hunt said she tried to answer their questions over the phone, but both teacher and students know it is not the same.

“You can tell in their voice that they’re struggling, but once we’ve kind of talked through some things, they sound better,” she said. “That’s all I have to go on until I get their work.”

The lack of internet access has reshaped the home lives of some students. Clarissa Breedan, an unemployed cosmetologist, lives with her parents and two children in a double-wide trailer home outside the small town of Roland. This fall, her four nieces have also stayed there during the week so they can get online for classes, only going home to their parents on weekends.

Some of the girls sleep in reclining chairs because there are not enough beds. “We have to do what we have to do,” Ms. Breedan said.

Josie Hunt lives on the outskirts of Roland; the only internet access there is via satellite for $140 per month. But she canceled her subscription in September after a barrage of extra charges incurred from remote classes made the service unaffordable. And a broadband provider said laying a cable to her home would cost $12,000.

“I’d rather not ever have internet if I have to pay that much,” said Ms. Hunt, who is disabled and whose husband works odd jobs.

Without it, her son Nehemiah, 14, has been forced to rely on flash drives to do his school work, with devastating results. “In school I made all A’s and B’s,” he said. “Now I’m failing.”





No.15 article:
As the Pandemic Surges, C.D.C. Issues Increasingly Assertive Advice

Agency scientists often contradict the Trump administration now, but critics urge a more public stance.

As the pandemic engulfs the nation, recent recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have been as notable for what they do not say as for what they do. In a turnabout, the agency now is hewing more closely to scientific evidence, often contradicting the positions of the Trump administration.

In scientific briefs published on Tuesday, the C.D.C. described the benefits of masks to wearers, not just to those around them. Agency researchers also urged people to celebrate Thanksgiving only with others in their households or, failing that, to wear a mask with two or more layers.

Administration officials famously have disregarded evidence about the effectiveness of masks, one reason there have been at least three coronavirus outbreaks at the White House and hundreds of cases linked to President Trump’s rallies.

The guidance was only the latest in a series of newly assertive bulletins from the C.D.C. In recent weeks, agency officials have issued strict requirements for cruise lines; updated the science on coronavirus infections in children; re-evaluated the risk from airborne virus indoors; and released recommendations for labs investigating viral reinfections in patients.

Still, C.D.C. officials have not publicly announced these findings nor held news conferences to explain them, instead posting the bulletins quietly online. Word of them has often appeared first on Twitter and noted by outside experts. Dr. Robert Redfield, the agency’s director appointed by Mr. Trump, has remained largely silent despite record-breaking numbers of coronavirus cases.

In interviews, scientists at the C.D.C. and public health experts who work closely with them described the reasons for the shift: an administration distracted by the election, the explosion of coronavirus cases across the country, and the likelihood that Joseph R. Biden Jr. would defeat Mr. Trump — now a certainty.

“A weight’s been lifted off the C.D.C. that allows them to do their job again,” said Scott Becker, chief executive of the Association of Public Health Laboratories who has worked closely with C.D.C. scientists for decades.

Under the Biden administration, the C.D.C. will be restored to its status as the premier public health agency in the world, said Dr. Céline Gounder, a member of President-elect Biden’s advisory group on the coronavirus.

“While their role has been diminished during this current crisis, they play a very important role in all this,” she said. The new administration will rebuild public health and data infrastructure, restore C.D.C. staffing in its overseas outposts and give “control back to the C.D.C.”

Within the C.D.C., there is a palpable sense of relief and a determination to return to an apolitical identity, according to four senior scientists who spoke on condition of anonymity because they feared for their jobs.

“We couldn’t allow ourselves to be politicized at this moment in time,” said one of the scientists, who is involved in the agency’s pandemic response. “We weren’t going to spend time licking wounds and worrying about what had gone wrong in the past.”

Another senior C.D.C. scientist said, “Sometimes you just feel compelled to say, ‘I don’t care what happens, I’ve got to do this.’”

Until the pandemic, the C.D.C. was widely regarded as the world’s leading public health agency. But the muzzling of its scientists by the Trump administration and the politicization of some of its advice crippled its efforts to answer critical questions, experts say, including how schools, churches and businesses should reopen, and how Americans could best protect themselves and their families.

The turnabout began after the Trump administration meddled in the C.D.C.’s vaunted weekly bulletins, the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports, according to Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, who led the agency under President Barack Obama.

Political appointees tried to revise, delay or even halt publication of the reports, sparking public outcry and condemnation at a congressional hearing. The dust-up precipitated the swift exit of Michael Caputo, a political appointee who had accused C.D.C. scientists of sedition, and Dr. Paul Alexander, a science adviser hired to help Mr. Caputo.

“The huge fight over the M.M.W.R. led to the administration backing off, and they’ve been putting out great M.M.W.R.s for the past six to eight weeks that are really important,” Dr. Frieden said.

The scientific brief on face coverings, for example, is at odds with the actions of administration officials including Mr. Trump, who rarely wears masks and has mocked Mr. Biden’s strict adherence to wearing them in public.

The bulletin also broke from the agency’s earlier watered-down view that the evidence “may convince” Americans that they should wear masks and that mask use “could prevent” an infected person from spreading the virus to others.

The C.D.C.’s recommendations for Thanksgiving gatherings arrived more than two weeks before the holiday, in itself an improvement. Until recently, much of the agency’s guidance was delayed by “the many eyes above them that needed to see things and clear things and possibly change things,” Mr. Becker said.

“But the Thanksgiving and mask thing sort of made me realize, OK, we’re getting a little bit ahead of it, like we used to,” he added.

Other C.D.C. documents in recent weeks have also taken an uncompromising tone. The Trump administration blocked a C.D.C. order to keep cruise ships docked until February, but in late October, the agency’s scientists outlined strict new rules for the industry, including requiring cruise ships to have C.D.C. approval for the laboratories and tests they use.

(Nonetheless, one of the first ships to resume cruising in the Caribbean now hosts a coronavirus outbreak.)

Also in October, Dr. Michael Beach, a senior C.D.C. scientist, told a House subcommittee that the agency’s guidance on schools — written under pressure from the White House — did not reflect the latest science on risks of children becoming infected with and transmitting the coronavirus.

The current version, updated a week later, said, “The body of evidence is growing that children of all ages are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection and, contrary to early reports, might play a role in transmission.”

The C.D.C. also acknowledged in October, months after the World Health Organization had done so, that the coronavirus could be airborne in poorly ventilated indoor settings. And it laid out sensible, science-based steps that public health laboratories should take to confirm suspected reinfections with the virus.

But none of these reports have been accompanied by briefings by agency scientists — a mainstay of the C.D.C.’s response to previous infectious disease outbreaks.

The mask advice, for example, might have been missed if news organizations had not caught wind of its arrival and reported it — squandering an opportunity for federal scientists to explain how the science has evolved and what it means to the public, several experts said.

“Here’s a situation now where there’s enough data to recommend it scientifically, and it might help change the behavior of some people, if you were seeing the normal reinforcers of public health and political leaders supporting each other,” said Dr. Richard Besser, who served as interim chief of the C.D.C. during the H1N1 virus outbreak of 2009.

The continuing absence of public health messaging from government agencies is dangerous, given the uncontrolled spread of the coronavirus and the approaching holidays, he and others said.

Dr. Carlos del Rio, an infectious disease expert at Emory University in Atlanta, said he had advised his friends at the C.D.C., including Dr. Redfield, to “do the right thing.”

“I told Redfield, ‘You start doing press briefings, you step up — and if they fire you, they fire you,’” Dr. del Rio recalled. “There’s a total vacuum in the coronavirus response at this point in time.”

Dr. Redfield did not respond to a request for comment.

The silence has also frustrated scientists inside the agency. The directors of the C.D.C.’s 10 centers “meet together every week, and what are they talking about? And why aren’t they collectively figuring out what’s best for the agency?” one irate C.D.C. scientist asked.

While counterparts at the Food and Drug Administration drew a line in the sand, declaring that they would shepherd vaccines for the coronavirus with independence and transparency, C.D.C. officials have not spoken up against the administration’s interference.

“We didn’t see anyone publicly fall on their sword for C.D.C., and that may have been what was needed,” a senior C.D.C. researcher said.

These scientists were worried that the past year may have permanently tarnished the C.D.C.’s credibility and the respect of its partners at the state and international levels. Several said they were considering leaving their posts because the institutional problems that intensified during the pandemic might not resolve even with a new director at the helm.

(A recent employee survey for the first time asked C.D.C. employees whether they were considering leaving the agency, and whether their job satisfaction had changed during the pandemic.)

The scientists were also anxious about how the next few weeks will unfold. The nation is facing record numbers of infections and hospitalizations, and record numbers of deaths may soon follow.

Whether the C.D.C. can adequately respond will depend on whether administration officials resume meddling with the agency or remain distracted during the lame-duck period.

Tammy Beckham, a close aide to the administration’s testing czar, Adm. Brett P. Giroir, oversaw supply and distribution of testing supplies but moved last week to the F.D.A.

Dr. Beckham was succeeded by a veteran agency scientist, Dr. Michael Iademarco. Some within the agency saw it as a sign that pressure from the administration may ease even before Mr. Biden takes office.

“This is not about a Republican or a Democrat,” one senior scientist said. “This is about public health. The pandemic is not partisan.”





No.16 article:
Watching the U.S. Election While Irish

“John King is back on shift!” gasped my sister Caoimhe. “It must be close.”

LONDON — As the polls closed on Election Day in America, my family group chat thrummed with anticipation. Maps were shared. Probabilities mocked. We argued over exit polls, safe seats and swing votes, breaking off occasionally to ask what, precisely, the Electoral College was.

This was not the usual way of things. We’re Irish. My family — my 10 siblings, their partners, my cousin and my father — are spread among Ireland, England and Germany, and we ordinarily use WhatsApp to share photos of grandchildren. But, in a shift familiar to many families around the world, we spent one week in November as an improbably fast-paced American electoral information hub.

Following American politics used to mean keeping up with the big-ticket items: announcements of war, confessions of extramarital affairs, the wearing of tan suits. But Donald Trump changed that.

Trying to ignore the Trump administration is a bit like trying to ignore a small fire on your person. “Did you see Donald’s gone on a Covid drive?” my father asked, as President Trump’s motorcade whisked him to greet his supporters outside Walter Reed hospital in October. “Why doesn’t he go door-to-door, while he’s at it?”

Disgust with Mr. Trump has driven most of Joe Biden’s support in our family, more than the latter’s oft-stated fondness for his ancestral roots. We would have seen the election the same way were it Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren vs. Mr. Trump: as the final, nerve-shredding boss battle. We just didn’t expect that it would last four days and feel roughly as long as the four years that preceded it.

As the count entered its second day, my father feigned indifference. He said he found CNN, with its flashy graphics and fast-talking anchors, not to his taste. He watched his local bulletins, with presenters who act like bank managers who’ve won a competition to present the news.

But he couldn’t stay away. “Your man with the map is very good,” he was saying by Thursday night. He was initially incapable of remembering the names of the anchors and so referred to them by the names of television presenters they vaguely resembled: Anderson Cooper became Paul O’Grady, an English television presenter who hosts “For the Love of Dogs”; John King was reborn as Roy Walker, a quiz show host from Belfast.

Soon, however, my father was more intimately acquainted with the anchors of CNN than he is with his 11 children. He related their key points and compared their styles, and referred to counties like DeKalb and Allegheny in the commonplace way he usually reserves for the townlands of rural Donegal.

By Friday, grandchildren had been forgotten entirely, the finger paintings of our WhatsApp group were replaced with district maps. And our tentative stabs at comprehension soon grew into the solid pronouncements of seasoned wonks.

“Pennsylvania is flying now,” said my sister Dearbhaile. And Nevada, my brother Conall said, looked a certainty, even when one factored military votes into the usual Democrat advantage with mail-in ballots.

We puzzled over the gains Trump had made among Hispanic voters, which we, shockingly, had not foreseen. “Maybe,” said my brother Dara, in the sole moment of self-examination any of us managed the whole week, “it’s more difficult for us to grasp because we come from a place where identity politics is all there is.”

With our newly refined understanding of American politics, we began to look between and beyond the numbers, taking cues from more subtle variations. “John King is back on shift!” gasped my sister Caoimhe on Friday. “It must be close.”

On Saturday afternoon our time, Wolf Blitzer crossed the spaceship floor of CNN’s studio to announce Mr. Biden as victor. The game, or this part of it, was over. We greeted the news like it was an acquittal for a crime we had not committed, gasped at the commentary for another hour or so, and promptly switched off CNN for the first time in four, long days.

The images we shared afterward were from an Irish news program that ended its election coverage with elegiac footage of Mr. Biden’s win, overlaid with audio from one of his most prominent campaign videos, in which he recites “The Cure at Troy” by Seamus Heaney. Distances collapsed as the man we’d just watched win the presidency 3,000 miles away spoke the words of a poet born half an hour from our family home.

Then time resumed its gentle gallop. Pages peeled from the calendar once more. My father’s dog died. I turned 35. The grandchildren resumed their position at the summit of our group chat’s interest. A week on, our CNN obsession seems like a relic of the ancient past. Chancing on the network on a channel hop evokes only the melancholy stab of a fondly remembered, but increasingly distant, summer romance. We hope our wider attentions to Washington will soon follow that diving arc.

We’ll always have the week we spent in thrall to the beating, flashing heart of American news, and the catharsis of its eventual end.

Not that the Biden win had surprised all of us by that stage. My father had called Maricopa County days before.





No.17 article:
How a Human Rights Angel Lost Her Halo

Ten years after she left house arrest and vowed to fight for justice, Myanmar’s civilian leader has instead become a jailer of critics and an apologist for the slaughter of minorities.

When Daw Aung San Suu Kyi emerged from years of house arrest a decade ago, having never used a smartphone or Facebook, she held court in the office of her banned political party, the smell of damp emanating from the human rights reports piled on the floor.

Armed with nothing more than a collection of international awards, she wore fresh flowers in her hair, sat with impeccable posture and promised the world two things: she would ensure that Myanmar’s political prisoners would go free and she would end the ethnic strife that has kept the country’s borderlands at war for seven decades.

But the two pledges have gone unfulfilled, and the world’s most shimmering icon of democracy has lost her luster. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, 75, has turned into an apologist for the very generals who once locked her up, downplaying their murderous campaign against the Rohingya Muslim minority. Her strongest critics accuse her, as a member of the Bamar ethnic majority, of racism and an unwillingness to fight for the human rights of all people in Myanmar.

Yet even as Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has squandered the moral authority that came with her Nobel Peace Prize, her popularity at home has endured. This week, her political party, the National League for Democracy, won yet another landslide in general elections, setting up five more years in which she will share power with the military that ruled Myanmar for nearly 50 years.

“Her leadership style is not going toward a democratic system, it’s going toward dictatorship,” said Daw Thet Thet Khine, a former stalwart of the National League for Democracy who formed her own party to compete in the elections on Sunday but failed to win any seats. “She does not listen to the voice of the people.”

It is hard to think of a human rights hero whose global prestige has tarnished so quickly. Alongside Nelson Mandela and Vaclav Havel, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi once represented the triumph of democracy over dictatorship. It helped, too, that she could turn on the charm.

Last year, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi traveled to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to defend the military against claims that it had committed genocide against the Rohingya Muslims.

She unapologetically insisted to the court that while “it cannot be ruled out that disproportionate force” had been used against the Rohingya, inferring genocidal intent presented an “incomplete and misleading factual picture.” Her Facebook page once carried the post “Fake rape,” abruptly discounting the systematic and well documented sexual violence committed against the Rohingya.

Under Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s government, Myanmar’s frontier lands, where other ethnic minorities are clustered, are more conflict-ridden now than they were a decade ago. And poets, painters and students have been jailed for peacefully speaking their minds: In Myanmar today, 584 people are either political prisoners or are awaiting trial on those kinds of charges, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.

“Now that she has tasted power, I don’t think she wants to share it with anyone,” said Seng Nu Pan, a politician from the Kachin ethnic group that is fighting for autonomy in the country’s north.

Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi grew up as political nobility, the daughter of Gen. Aung San, the country’s independence hero who was assassinated when she was 2 years old.

After 28 years abroad, she returned home in 1988 as pro-democracy protests were coalescing across the country. Within a few months, a onetime homemaker had emerged as the leader of the movement.

A military junta locked her up in 1989, after which her National League for Democracy won elections that were ignored by the dictatorship. In 1991, she won the Nobel Peace Prize “for her nonviolent struggle for democracy and human rights.”

During house arrest in her crumbling villa for a total of 15 years, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi kept to a strict schedule. She listened to BBC radio news reports. She practiced the piano. And she meditated in the Buddhist way, intent, she said, on transcending earthly concerns. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi missed her two sons growing up, and the death of her husband, a British academic, from cancer.

But the virtues that served Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi so well during house arrest — her straight-backed dignity and the psychological bunker she built around herself — may be what has led to her failure, so far, to fight for true, representative democracy in Myanmar.

The line is thin between resolve and recalcitrance, conviction and condescension.

“It is ironic that while the international community used its liberty to promote hers, she is using some of the very same legal mechanisms as the military to stifle freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of assembly,” said Bill Richardson, the former American ambassador to the United Nations and a longtime ally of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.

Mr. Richardson broke with her two years ago, when Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi became so angry that he thought she might slap him after he urged her to free two Reuters journalists who had been imprisoned after uncovering a massacre of Rohingya, he said.

“If she fails to lead especially her ethnic Bamar supporters to a more inclusive vision of the country through her words and actions, Myanmar is likely to become a less stable and more violent place,” Mr. Richardson added.

For all her democratic rhetoric, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi retains respect for the army that her father formed. Some of the founders of the National League for Democracy were former military officers who fought ethnic rebels in Myanmar’s hinterlands.

The party is organized with a soldierly hierarchy in which the commanding officer is Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi. But the actual army maintains a grip on important ministries, a chunk of parliament and lucrative businesses.

Since taking power as the country’s state counselor in 2016, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has repeatedly praised the army, while refusing to acknowledge the military’s drive to rid the country of Rohingya Muslims. In 2017, roughly three-quarters of a million Rohingya fled to neighboring Bangladesh.

Many of those left in the country are in internment camps. The Rohingya were not allowed to vote in Sunday’s elections, and the polls were canceled in other ethnic-minority conflict zones, disenfranchising more than 2.5 million non-Bamar. As a result, ethnic parties were unable to make the electoral gains they once expected, although the National League for Democracy successfully fielded two Muslim candidates.

“Making peace and reconciliation is much easier with ethnic groups, but she only tried with the military,” said Tu Ja, chairman of the ethnic Kachin State People’s Party.

Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s supporters say that her refusal to speak up on behalf of Myanmar’s vulnerable communities is not innate chauvinism but rather a political pragmatism that comes from wanting to deny the military an opportunity to once again seize full power. Army rule began in 1962 with the excuse that a civilian government was being overwhelmed by civil war.

But the national mood in Myanmar is animated by a xenophobia that limns Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s unwillingness to defend the rights of ethnic minorities. Thousands of Buddhist monks have held protests against the West for wanting to bring the military to justice for ethnic cleansing. Many others in the country’s Bamar heartland accuse an Islamic cabal of trying to turn a peaceful Buddhist nation into a Muslim enclave.

“People in the West thought that Daw Aung San Suu Kyi would be unpopular because of the crackdown on the Bengalis,” said U Thu Citta, an influential Buddhist monk, using a term to suggest, incorrectly, that the Rohingya are from Bangladesh, not Myanmar. “But what she did was right.”

Since the election, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has remained holed up in a villa in Naypyidaw, the fortress capital that was built by the generals to showcase their might. She has repeatedly refused requests to talk to The New York Times. She is still said to meditate everyday.

The coronavirus rages outside. The military-linked party, which was trounced by the National League for Democracy, has rejected the election results, called for a do-over and threatened to bring the army in as observers.

In Yangon, the former capital abandoned by the military, a new generation of human rights activists trade tips on how to avoid getting nabbed by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s government.

“We have nearly 600 political prisoners, and I was one of them a few months ago,” said Ma Thinzar Shunlei Yi, 28, who was convicted of contravening a law on peaceful assembly when she protested the persecution of ethnic minorities. “She has not done enough to lay the democratic foundation for basic freedoms for all.”





No.18 article:
News Quiz: President-Elect Joe Biden, Vaccines, Alex Trebek 





No.19 article:
5 Tips for Reducing Screen Time





No.20 article:
Examine Ballot. Recite Name. Sort Into Bin. Repeat 5 Million Times.

A hand recount got underway in Georgia on Friday, with hundreds of poll workers rechecking ballots in a state that President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won by about 14,000 votes.

MARIETTA, Ga. — By the time President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the winner of Georgia’s 16 electoral votes on Friday afternoon, hundreds of county poll workers across the state were several hours into the arduous slog of recounting nearly five million ballots by hand.

Sitting several feet apart to account for social distancing, the workers began the extraordinary statewide effort, technically an audit, on Friday morning. They hunched over sheafs of ballots, recited the names, counted and restacked them in bins.

Similar scenes unfolded in warehouse-like rooms across the state, and would continue until every ballot had been checked.

“We’re pretty much living here right now,” said Deidre Holden, elections and voter registration supervisor in Paulding County, a suburban and rural area west of Atlanta.

Georgia was called for Mr. Biden at 2:21 p.m., extending his final electoral vote tally to 306 — 36 more than required to win the presidency. Still, the political pressure on elections officials was palpable in a freshly minted battleground state that President Trump, who trails Mr. Biden by about 14,000 votes, has vowed he would eventually win.

The workers were facing a tight deadline. Local officials must submit their new counts by Wednesday night, two days before the statewide certification deadline of Nov. 20. Elections officials had already put in long hours preparing for the recount, and they expected many more long days ahead — particularly as they prepare for the Dec. 14 start of early voting in two high-profile runoff elections that could determine control of the Senate.

Some of Georgia’s 159 counties, including Fulton and DeKalb Counties, two of the state’s most populous, were not scheduled to begin the recount until Saturday.

On Friday afternoon, Walter Jones, a spokesman for the secretary of state’s office, said few problems had surfaced in the counties that began counting that morning. Bryan County, near Savannah, finished its recount of 21,000 ballots, he said.

The audit was ordered this week by Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, after the Trump campaign and the state’s Republican Party demanded a hand recount after claiming that ineligible and dead people had voted.

Mr. Raffensperger, a Republican, has said that while his office would investigate all allegations of voting irregularities, the overall process had been fair, trustworthy and legitimate.

The Trump campaign can request a third tally — a formal recount — if Mr. Biden’s lead is less than half a percentage point. As of Friday afternoon, he was ahead by 0.3 percentage points.

In the Atlanta suburb of Cobb County, which Mr. Biden won by about 56,000 votes, the work got underway at 9 a.m. sharp in a cavernous room inside an event center. There, a county employee, pacing among the folding tables, barked out instructions like a high school teacher before a standardized test.

At each table, workers broke open taped-up boxes and removed fat stacks of ballots sealed in clear plastic bags. At Team 12’s table, a man held a sheaf of ballots, declared the name of the candidate on each one, and handed it to a woman standing across the table who double-checked him, then placed the ballot in a bin with the candidate’s name.

The Cobb County ballots being counted on Friday morning had been cast on Election Day and at early-voting sites using a touch-screen system that produces a paper printout and seldom yields ambiguous results.

Later in the day, said Janine Eveler, the director of elections and registration for Cobb County, the workers would move on to hand-marked absentee ballots, which take more time because of potential issues that need to be closely examined.

But Ms. Eveler said that in Cobb County, ballots deemed to have potential issues in the first counting — about five or six boxes’ worth — had already been separated and adjudicated once, making it unlikely that significant numbers of votes would change in the recount.

Any ambiguous ballots, including the batch that was already adjudicated, would be sent to a panel composed of a Democrat, a Republican and a representative from the county election board. That panel is scheduled to meet publicly on Saturday.

All of Georgia’s 159 counties rely on such panels to resolve issues of ambiguous voter intentions.

A little more than three hours after Cobb County began its recount, its election board certified the results based on the original count. And yet the workers recounted anyway. Ms. Eveler said the total would be recertified if it changed.

Similar scenes played out across the state.

In suburban Gwinnett County, the audit was conducted in a large room in the back of the elections office. Near the main entrance, black ballot boxes were lined up in five rows, ready to be distributed among 60 white tables spaced around the room.

The morning went smoothly — for the most part. At around 11 a.m., one of the workers was given a warning for taking out a phone, potentially violating a rule against taking pictures of the ballots. The worker received a warning. The counting continued.

In Paulding County, a deeply conservative area that went heavily for Mr. Trump, 42 workers paired up around 21 tables in a government office. Most of the workers were not wearing masks even though coronavirus cases are once again rising in the state.

By around 3 p.m., Ms. Holden said, about a quarter of the county’s 85,600 ballots had been recounted. Roughly 50 ballots had been flagged for review by a bipartisan adjudication panel, but in each case, she said, the Democrat and Republican agreed on the voter’s intent.





No.21 article:
The Loud, Biased, Lovable Celtic

The Boston Celtics have produced some of the biggest names in basketball history: Bill Russell, Red Auerbach, Larry Bird. But among all those icons, Tommy Heinsohn was Mr. Celtic.

A 6-foot-7 forward who smoked cigarettes and sank hook shots, he was a Hall of Fame player and coach who worked with the Celtics from the day he was drafted in 1956 to the day he died, this week, at age 86. That made Heinsohn the only person to play a part in each of the franchise’s 17 championships, a record shared with the Lakers.

Despite his starring role in one of sports’ most dominant dynasties, Heinsohn became even better known and loved in Boston for being the Celtics’ color commentator and unofficial mascot for more than four decades.

Most New Englanders under 50 remember him not from his time as a championship player and coach, but from having his Boston accent booming into their living rooms every game day. He shouted regularly. He rooted unabashedly. And he excoriated the refs. He did just about everything modern broadcasters are taught not to do, and that was why he was so entertaining.

“The Celtics were all he ever knew, and it was very, very personal to him,” said Mike Gorman, Heinsohn’s partner behind the mic for nearly 40 years — perhaps the longest tenure for any duo in American sports broadcasting history. “He allowed fans to be over the top, because he was over the top. He was leading the charge.”

As I grew up in central Massachusetts, my first narrators of the game were Heinsohn and Gorman. Gorman played the straight man, describing the action, while Heinsohn would yell at the Celtics to run the court and dive for loose balls. When a call went against Boston, Heinsohn sounded less like a suit in the broadcasting booth and more like a fan in Section 323.

“Are you kidding me?” he would shout. “This is ridiculous!” While sportscasters in other locales had catchphrases to punctuate their teams’ best moments, Heinsohn’s memorable calls marked the referees’ worst ones.

That style made Heinsohn stand out in the modern era of sports media. He was one of the final voices in the old guard of broadcasters who weren’t afraid to show their allegiance. Announcers like Hawk Harrelson of the Chicago White Sox and Phil Rizzuto of the Yankees openly pulled for the teams they followed, to the delight of the hometown fans. But increasingly, sports broadcasts strive for a more measured and unbiased tone, in part because announcers move around more often, have aspirations for a national gig, or worry about a clip going viral.

“It’s all of the above,” said Mike Breen, who has called Knicks games for 28 years and is now ESPN’s lead N.B.A. announcer. “Quite frankly, I think there’s a lot of us that are envious, in that we wish we could call a game the way Tommy did.” Heinsohn, Breen added, “was himself on the air, all the time, every single night. And there’s such a beauty to that.”

That was true even when Heinsohn called national games for CBS in the 1980s, in the heart of the Celtics-Lakers rivalry. “If you listened to the broadcast, and you were not a Celtics fan, you would not like him,” said Doc Rivers, the Celtics coach from 2004 to 2013 and a former color commentator. “And Tommy was OK with that.”

Rivers said that in his first years in Boston, he would often look to the broadcast booth after a questionable foul call. Heinsohn, he said, would always signal that the call was awful.

“So I would then go and tell the ref, ‘What the heck are you doing?’” Rivers said. “And you find out later the refs got it right.”

In annual league meetings, Rivers said the referees always brought up Heinsohn. “Every year one of the refs would say, ‘Can you at least just tell him that he doesn’t have to be so hard on us all the time?’” Rivers said. “I used to laugh and say, ‘That will never happen.’”

Bob Ryan, the longtime Boston Globe sports columnist, was a Boston College student when he wrote his first article about Heinsohn in 1967. “I completely blasted him as a totally unprofessional announcer,” he said. “Something along the lines of, ‘That is why you don’t want a jock announcing games.’” Ryan later changed his mind, and his final article about Heinsohn focused partly on his intelligence.

In 1967, Heinsohn was in his first stint as a broadcaster, calling games alongside Auerbach, the pioneering Celtics coach and executive. Heinsohn was fresh off a playing career in which he helped lead the Celtics to the N.B.A. finals in each of his nine seasons, winning eight. He and Russell started a dynasty as rookies, playing alongside greats like Bob Cousy and Bill Sharman. Later, Heinsohn became Boston’s head coach and secured two more titles.

Yet one of Heinsohn’s most lasting legacies came from his years as the second president of the N.B.A. players’ union. Before the 1964 All-Star Game, Heinsohn organized a strike to demand better working conditions. The owners agreed, leading to the N.B.A.’s first collective-bargaining agreement and, eventually, free agency.

Although he was a ferocious competitor, those who knew Heinsohn described him as kind and serene when the game clock expired, and generous with his time as a mentor and a friend. Heinsohn was also an accomplished painter, partial to watercolors and New England landscapes. “We have a Heinsohn in our living room,” Ryan said. “It’s called Snowy Winter Evening.”

As basketball evolved, Heinsohn did not. When 3-pointers became the rage, he still loved the midrange jumper. When advanced statistics became sportscasters’ parlance, he ignored them. “You know what metric I know?” he once asked Gorman during a game. “The final score.” Instead, he invented his own stat to measure the immeasurable; he awarded thousands of “Tommy Points” for hustle plays.

Tony Allen, the scrappy Celtics defensive specialist, admitted this week that he would rewatch games to count his Tommy Points. “Any Celtic that ever played in a Celtic uniform always was thankful for a Tommy Point,” he said.

Heinsohn believed his eyes over stats, Gorman said. Before their first N.B.A. game together in 1981, Gorman said, he was laying out detailed notes with statistics and player anecdotes when Heinsohn arrived and asked what they were.

“He gave me kind of a wry smile, picked up my notes, rolled them in a ball, and tossed them off the first balcony,” Gorman recalled. “I didn’t know what to say. Then Tommy put his arm around me and said, ‘Kiddo, we’re just going to talk about what we see in front of us.’ And that’s what we did for the better part of 40 years.”





No.22 article:
Judge Denies Bond to Father and Son Charged With Killing Ahmaud Arbery

Prosecutors introduced evidence at the hearing of the son having sent racist text messages, while Mr. Arbery’s mother wailed in court as a video of her son’s killing was played.

A judge denied bond on Friday to the white father and son charged with murder in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, the 25-year-old Black man shot by the son after they chased him down a quiet road in Georgia.

The decision came on the second day of hearings over whether the men, Gregory McMichael and his son Travis McMichael, should be freed on bail as they await trial over the Feb. 23 killing, which was captured on video by a third man, William Bryan, who has also been charged with murder. Mr. Arbery’s mother wailed in the courtroom on Friday as prosecutors showed a video of the shooting.

The Arbery killing initially received little attention, but after The New York Times published an article about the case and the video of the killing was leaked, the men were arrested in May. Many activists saw the more than two-month delay between the killing and the men’s arrest as a sign of corruption and racial bias, and the Arbery case was frequently referred to by protesters at the racial justice demonstrations that swept the United States over the summer.

Bond hearings rarely last longer than a few hours, but prosecutors and defense lawyers introduced a trove of evidence during the public hearings this week that shed new light on the case. Jesse Evans, a prosecutor who is trying the case, read messages on Thursday that he said were written by Travis McMichael, who the authorities have said shot Mr. Arbery. Mr. Evans said he had once used an anti-Asian slur on Facebook and, in a text message to a friend in November 2019, had talked about shooting somebody while using an anti-Black slur and stereotypes.

Mr. Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, also spoke at the hearing on Thursday, arguing that the men should not be freed on bond.

“These men are proud of what they’ve done, and they want to go home because in their selfish minds, they think that they’re the good guys,” she said. “I continue to suffer mentally and emotionally while I wait for justice for my son.”

Judge Timothy Walmsley said he had significant concerns about Travis McMichael’s bias and was worried that Gregory McMichael had been willing to “place the law in his own hands” and influence the investigation. The father and son, each wearing a suit and appearing on a video feed from jail, could be seen speaking to each other briefly after the judge’s ruling but their microphone was muted.

Mr. Evans had argued that the men should be denied the opportunity for bond because the killing showed they posed a danger to others. The prosecutor also played recordings of phone calls in which the men had suggested that a woman delete her Facebook account and a man not talk to investigators, arguing that they showed that the men may try to obstruct justice. Gregory McMichael is a former police officer and investigator with the local district attorney’s office, ties that some argued may have helped him evade arrest.

Mr. Evans also played a recording of a phone call that Gregory McMichael had made to Jackie Johnson, the local district attorney whose office he had worked in, shortly after the shooting, in which he asked her for advice. Ms. Johnson, who was voted out last week, later recused herself from the case.

Lawyers for the McMichaels argued in court this week that the men were upstanding citizens and that there was no real risk that they would try to flee before trial. Both lawyers sought to paint Mr. Arbery as a repeat burglar from whom the father, son and other residents were trying to protect themselves.

Robert Rubin, a lawyer representing Travis McMichael, said his client had responded only when he was “put in danger” by Mr. Arbery. Laura Hogue, a lawyer for the elder McMichael, said that the father was acting in self-defense and that the case was about whether he was “authorized to protect his neighborhood against crime the way that he did.”

Ms. Hogue said the state was pursuing the case so passionately because Mr. Arbery was Black, and suggested they would not do so if the victim was a hypothetical white man — “Arnold Arbery” —  who had been suspected of stealing things from houses and then “attacked” Travis McMichael.

Judge Walmsley at times grew frustrated with the lawyers’ extensive arguments, calling the bond hearing a “marathon” and telling prosecutors that they were effectively trying the case before the trial had begun.

But, ultimately, he seemed to find many of the prosecutors’ arguments persuasive, and said he would write a more detailed explanation of his ruling.





No.23 article:
Bryson DeChambeau’s Ball Search Pushes Him Out of Masters Hunt

After predictions that he would dominate Augusta National, DeChambeau had a meltdown on the third hole Friday that put him below the projected cut line with six holes of his second round left to finish on Saturday morning.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — It was almost a given that Bryson DeChambeau would do something memorable at this year’s Masters tournament. It did not figure to be a booming tee shot so high in the Georgia sky that it landed clear out of sight.

Just as amazing: That swing, and the resulting penalty for a lost ball, could cause DeChambeau, the pretournament favorite, to miss the cut and be sent home from the 2020 Masters on Saturday. The missing tee shot on Friday triggered a three-hole meltdown of sorts for DeChambeau as he batted his ball around the course and dropped precipitously down the leaderboard.

It has been that kind of Masters so far for DeChambeau, who arrived at the Augusta National Golf Club awash in a wave of publicity for his prodigiously long drives. But in his first two rounds, keeping his shots straight has been a major issue.

Consider an exchange Friday evening between a reporter and Jon Rahm, one of DeChambeau’s playing partners the past two days:

Reporter: “Were you involved in the search for Bryson’s ball?”

Rahm: “Which one?”

More on that later. The far-fetched drama for DeChambeau began on the third hole.

At that point, DeChambeau, who on Friday finished one over par for the tournament with six holes left to play in a truncated second round, was enjoying something of a tournament revival. After a bumpy start early Thursday, he had rallied to get to two under par, which left him lurking behind the quartet now leading the event: Dustin Johnson, Justin Thomas, Abraham Ancer and Cameron Smith, who were all at nine under after finishing their second rounds.

The 350-yard, par-4 third hole was supposed to be easy prey. On Friday, DeChambeau smashed a shot that landed about 20 yards short of its green and just left of the fairway in some high rough. The ball disappeared in the grass. On multiple, slow-motion televisions replays, the white orb appeared to have descended roughly 330 yards from the tee and vanished as it contacted the grass.

In golf, that is known as a plugged ball and it is often visible only if someone is standing directly over it and staring straight down, but since the 2020 Masters is being conducted without spectators, there were no fans surrounding the hole to guide DeChambeau to the proper location.

When DeChambeau reached the area where his tee shot landed, it was clear he would need reinforcements if he was ever going to find the ball. Augusta National is typically an outlier as a championship golf course because it lacks high grass outside the fairways. But that’s during its traditional April setting.

Delayed to November because of the coronavirus pandemic, the tournament is being played on grounds that have some spots with grass standing several inches high and that on Friday remained soaked by small puddles from a rainstorm the day before.

DeChambeau tramped the grass in the general vicinity of where his ball seemed to have landed. Rahm and their fellow playing partner, Louis Oosthuizen, joined him, as did their caddies and tournament officials. At one point, an assemblage of 14 men were stomping the grass in search of DeChambeau’s Bridgestone golf ball.

Based on television replays, it appeared they were looking about 10 yards to the left of where they should have been searching. A rules official began timing the episode because after three minutes any ball that cannot be found is considered lost, which draws a one-stroke penalty and requires the player to go back and replay his shot from the spot from where he hit it. That is counted as the player’s third stroke on the hole, which is enough to make any golfer feel sick.

An increasingly distressed DeChambeau plaintively asked the rules official Ken Tackett as the clock was ticking down: “So you’re saying if we can’t find it — it’s a lost ball?”

Yes, indeed. DeChambeau began to wonder aloud if the wet conditions constituted what the golf rule book refers to as “casual water,” and whether that might protect him from the one-stroke penalty and having to return to the tee. Tackett shook his head: no.

Time was up, and the ball was officially lost. DeChambeau climbed into a golf cart and hit another ball from the third tee. It struck almost the same spot as the previous ball, except it bounced and remained visible. But when DeChambeau returned to the scene, it was obvious the entire incident had shaken him.

He sent a short chip, his fourth shot on the hole, flying 20 yards over the green. His pitch from there skipped another 15 feet past the hole. Two putts later, DeChambeau had a confounding, disheartening triple bogey.

“I know it affected him a little bit, because he didn’t play his best golf after that,” Rahm said.

Rahm was being empathetic, and diplomatic.

Looking frazzled, DeChambeau hooked his drive on the fourth hole, then mis-hit an iron from the rough — “Oh, I popped it up,” he yelped after the swing.

He started playing considerably faster and hardly sized up some shots before hitting them, as if he had an Uber car waiting to remove him from the scene. It was an unconscious reaction any everyday duffer would have recognized — the kind of thing golfers do when their minds are overcome by a mix of exasperation and embarrassment.

Consecutive bogeys ensued on the fourth and fifth holes. Now DeChambeau, who declined to come to the clubhouse interview area late Friday, was four over par for his round.

Rahm, who was also part of the search party that on Thursday had helped DeChambeau find a ball he blasted into the azalea bushes behind the 13th green, understood what his playing partner was going through.

“It’s unfortunate that the rules of golf don’t let you kind of figure out it’s somewhere there and keep playing — because he had to re-tee,” Rahm said. “I mean, when you have Bryson hitting it as hard as he hits it and it’s kind of hooking with not much spin into a soft area, we were all confident it was pretty buried and it was going to be hard to find.”

To his credit, DeChambeau did mount a comeback. He birdied three of the next nine holes after his debacle on the third, but missed a four-foot eagle putt on the eighth hole after a superb drive and a precise approach shot. He is not out of the tournament yet, although finding a way to contend will take a spectacular rally on his final six holes to finish the second round on Saturday.

“He’s a fighter and he’s showing it,” Rahm said.

Still, all in all, it was not the way DeChambeau wanted to make his mark on golf’s most meaningful event.

There was one last indignity to cap DeChambeau’s day: Rahm said the missing golf ball had been found in the high grass near the third green minutes after the search for it was abandoned.





No.24 article:
Viola Smith, ‘Fastest Girl Drummer in the World,’ Dies at 107

She became a star as a percussionist and bandleader in the swing era. But her call for the big bands to hire women instrumentalists during World War II had little impact.

Viola Smith, who played a giant 12-piece drum kit and was billed as the “fastest girl drummer in the world” — and who wrote a widely read essay during World War II advocating for big bands to hire female musicians in place of the male ones who had been drafted — died on Oct. 21 at her home in Costa Mesa, Calif. She was 107.

Her nephew Dennis confirmed her death.

Ms. Smith, who hailed from a little town in Wisconsin, grew up playing in a jazz band with her seven sisters. Her entrepreneurial father had conceived of the group, the Schmitz Sisters Orchestra, and they performed at state fairs and toured the vaudeville circuit. After most of her sisters left the band, Ms. Smith started another all-female outfit, the Coquettes, which rose to modest national fame in the late 1930s.

Ms. Smith became the first female star of jazz drumming. She performed at President Harry S. Truman’s inauguration gala, and she worked with Ella Fitzgerald and Chick Webb. Her showcase tune was a jazzy arabesque called “Snake Charmer,” in which she exhibited her virtuosity in a flashy solo.

When people called her the “female Gene Krupa,” she corrected them: Krupa, she said, was the male Viola Smith.

As the ranks of predominantly male big bands thinned out during the war, Ms. Smith published an editorial in DownBeat Magazine titled “Give Girl Musicians a Break!,” urging orchestras to hire talented female musicians who were eager to fill the slots of the absent players.

“Why not let the girls play in the big bands?” she wrote. “In these times of national emergency, many of the star instrumentalists of the big name bands are being drafted. Instead of replacing them with what may be mediocre talent, why not let some of the great girl musicians of the country take their places?”

“There are many girl trumpet players, girl saxophonists and girl drummers who can stand the grind of long tours and exacting one-night stands,” she continued. “The idea of girls being able to play only legitimately is a worn-out myth now.”

Despite Ms. Smith’s impassioned argument, the big bands didn’t heed her calls for inclusion.

Viola Clara Schmitz was born in Mount Calvary, Wis., on Nov. 29, 1912. Her father, Nicholas, ran a tavern and a dance hall and played cornet professionally. Her mother, Louise (Steffes) Schmitz, was a homemaker. Viola grew up in a musical household with nine siblings and attended a rural schoolhouse.

No immediate family members survive.

When Ms. Smith was 13, her father assigned her the drums in the family band, partly because all the other instruments were spoken for. The Schmitz Sisters Orchestra toured heavily and once participated in a radio battle with an all-male big band, performing Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue.”

Ms. Smith’s sisters gradually left the band to raise families or pursue other occupations, and with her remaining bandmate, Mildred, she formed a new all-female ensemble, billed as Frances Carroll (the frontwoman) and the Coquettes. Their picture appeared on the cover of Billboard magazine, and they performed in a Warner Bros. musical short. Mildred eventually also got married, and Ms. Smith became the last sister standing.

The bright lights of New York, and the hot jazz coming out of the nightclubs on 52nd Street, called out to Ms. Smith, and she headed to the big city with her drumsticks.

Opportunity abounded for her in New York. She studied timpani at the Juilliard School and played with the snare drum virtuoso Billy Gladstone at Radio City Music Hall. A young Frank Sinatra chatted her up one night at a chop house. She found a studio apartment in Midtown, where she ended up living for 70 years.

Ms. Smith joined Phil Spitalny’s all-female big band, Hour of Charm, and stayed with the group for over a decade, appearing with them in the Abbott and Costello comedy “Here Come the Co-eds.” Ms. Smith also made several appearances on Ed Sullivan’s popular variety show and signed endorsement deals with Ludwig Drums and the Zildjian cymbal company.

By the 1950s, the big-band era was coming to an end. A few years after performing on Broadway as a member of the Kit Kat Band in the original 1966 production of “Cabaret,” she retired. She spent the following years getting good at bridge and enjoying the wonders of a rent-regulated New York apartment.

When Ms. Smith discovered much later that she was being hailed as a female pioneer of drumming, the news surprised her.

“It’s all amazing to me what I see now on the internet,” she told Tom Tom, a drumming magazine, in 2013. “Everything comes as a great surprise. I’m very thankful that I’m accepted as a girl drummer because, one time, there was no such thing.”

Ms. Smith moved to Southern California in 2012 and lived there on a Christian commune in Costa Mesa, largely composed of older women, called the Piecemakers. The origins of the group, which operates a country store that sells homemade quilts and crafts, date to the 1960s.

Earlier this year, the writer Emma Starer Gross visited Costa Mesa to interview Ms. Smith for The LAnd Magazine. Musing on her longevity, Ms. Smith said, “Maybe it’s the drums that have kept me spry, or the wine, or going to the casino.”

The article described a trip Ms. Smith had taken a few years earlier to a Guitar Center with some Piecemaker friends to pick up musical equipment. A young woman helped them out, paying little notice to that petite centenarian. As it happened, Tom Tom magazine had recently run a piece about Ms. Smith, and that very issue was sitting on the shop’s counter.

When the young employee started flipping through the magazine, and one of Ms. Smith’s friends casually mentioned the article, she quickly became star-struck.

“You’re Viola Smith?” she said. “Every woman drummer knows who you are.”





No.25 article:
Homeless Men Moved Into a Tourist Hotel. What Followed Was Unexpected.

The hotel-turned-shelter became a flash point on the Upper West Side, but helped the men find a sense of belonging. Now they might be moved.

An opera singer who also studied public relations is struggling to find work. His new roommate, released from prison a year ago, is trying to find his footing, too. A neighbor is focused on his sobriety.

All three men live at the Lucerne Hotel, which used to offer spa services and valet parking to tourists on the Upper West Side.

The Lucerne is now one of 63 hotels the city has turned into homeless shelters since the beginning of the pandemic to help prevent the spread of coronavirus inside dormitory-style shelters where single men and women cannot safely distance.

The conversion of hotels into shelters has sparked the threat of lawsuits, an actual lawsuit, a dozen protests, news conferences and the formation of several neighborhood groups — some opposed to shelters and others in favor. But caught in the middle of the political push-and-pull are displaced men and women, a group whose lives have often been upended by evictions, unemployment and other traumatic events.

“I don’t want to leave because of the love that we experienced,” said a resident of the Lucerne who goes by Shams DaBaron.

For some men living at the Lucerne, the debate has had an unexpected effect: a sense of belonging that eluded them at other shelters. Hundreds of people banded together to pressure Mayor Bill de Blasio and his administration to move the men. But other residents, community activists and advocacy groups rallied around the men, and in October a judge delayed a plan to relocate them.

That pause could end on Monday if a Manhattan Supreme Court justice decides to move the men to a Radisson Hotel in the Financial District instead of allowing them to stay for now.

Mr. DaBaron, 51, has become the de facto representative of the men at the hotel, a role that has kept him busy as he clings to sobriety.

He and some of the other men were flabbergasted when people welcomed them with kind messages in sidewalk chalk and donated clothes.

“Putting their babies in our arms, their babies, I don’t know these women!” said Mr. DaBaron. “Bringing their dogs and saying, ‘Hey, hold my dog,’ and ‘Hey, he loves you,’ and I’m saying, ‘This is crazy, I’ve never experienced this in my life.’”

The Lucerne became the focus for the debate on homeless hotels this summer after more than 200 men moved there in July. Some residents complained about increased loitering, drug use and public urination. A private Facebook group that now has more than 15,000 members became a forum that sometimes veered into racist, degrading language. A group of residents hired Randy Mastro, a powerful lawyer and former deputy mayor for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani who has represented Mr. de Blasio in the past, to threaten a lawsuit against the city.

Supporters of the men saw the complaints and efforts to move them as pure NIMBYism.

The debate has been so volatile that people on both sides said they have been doxxed. Mr. Mastro’s townhouse on the Upper East Side was vandalized with graffiti that included the phrase, “Randy Mastro you can’t displace us.”

Mr. Mastro and Megan Martin, the president of West Side Community Organization, the nonprofit group that hired him, both said their effort to move the men was motivated primarily by concern for their well-being.

Before the pandemic, Mr. de Blasio had vowed to end the city’s dependence on hotels as a stopgap to house the homeless. But the city greatly expanded the use of hotels in the wake of the deadly virus, placing about 9,500 homeless people in them so far.

The Department of Homeless Services regards the pandemic hotel program as a success, noting that 104 people in their care have died from the coronavirus, even though the prospects for the nearly 60,000 people in the main shelter system looked dire this spring.

Still, after a visit to the Upper West Side in September, the mayor described the situation as “not acceptable.” The city began moving forward with a plan to relocate the men.

After protests, the city abandoned an original idea to move families out of a shelter near the Empire State Building to make room for the men. The city then settled on moving the men to the Radisson, but a group of residents in the Financial District filed a lawsuit, charging that the site was unsuitable for a shelter, even though it has been used as an emergency hotel for some time and will eventually be turned into a permanent shelter for families, the homeless agency said.

Some of the men at the Lucerne, including Mr. DaBaron, got a lawyer and filed affidavits stating that the move would be traumatic for them and others at the hotel.

On Oct. 19, Justice Debra James granted a temporary restraining order that allowed the men to stay at the Lucerne, a decision that came as a bus idled outside the hotel to take them downtown.

Now the men await the judge’s decision, which could let them stay for the time being.

Leaving the Lucerne now would be painful because they connected with an outreach group called the Upper West Side Open Hearts Initiative, which initially formed in response to neighborhood opposition, some men said.

On a recent chilly, rainy Sunday afternoon, a few dozen men came out of the hotel to browse a store the group had set up, many walking away with new jeans, socks or sweaters that had been donated.

Steven Hackett III, the opera singer, found a few ties and a sweater that he liked. He planned to wear the new clothes for job interviews, he said.

Before the Lucerne, Mr. Hackett, 35, spent some time in a nursing home in Queens to recover from a seizure he had at a shelter. In the nursing home, he caught the coronavirus and suffered a dangerously high fever for two weeks, he said, recalling other patients dying.

He said he had been approved for housing in nearby Harlem and wanted that apartment to be his next and last move.

Mr. Hackett’s roommate, Jerry Lugo, said he went straight into the shelter system after he was released from prison in August 2019. He said one shelter “was like jail.”

“You got to sleep with one eye open, otherwise anything that’s not nailed down, they take it from you,” he said.

The Lucerne was a relief, but he had mixed feelings about the possible move. While Mr. Lugo, 38, appreciated the services there, he said he thought he could have a single room at the Radisson.

And while the Open Hearts group has been welcoming, the neighborhood remains hostile, he said. “I experienced walking down the block and I feel the bad energy. ‘There goes one of those guys from the shelter,’” he said. “We shouldn’t be treated differently.”

Mr. DaBaron, though, seems to have found his calling. In a matter of months, he has become a community activist, a turn of events for a man who thought he was going to die earlier this year.

He was staying at the Kenton Hall Men’s Shelter in the Bowery where he said he slept in an open room with more than 30 men. He contracted coronavirus and was moved to a quarantine facility in Queens, where he said that he was given oxygen after his levels dropped dangerously low.

“I started calling on every god in the book, just so I didn’t get it wrong,” Mr. DaBaron said.

After he recovered he was sent back to a shelter downtown, then to the Washington Jefferson Hotel in Hell’s Kitchen, and finally to the Lucerne in July.

Mr. DaBaron, a former rapper, grew up in the Bronx in the foster care system, and started living on the streets periodically as a teenager. He said speaking out about the Lucerne has helped his sobriety and reminded him of how he would speak up for himself and other foster children.

He said that he hoped he and the other men would be allowed to stay at the Lucerne, at least through the pandemic.

“We have this unique opportunity,” Mr. DaBaron said. “I just hope that the mayor has the compassion to say, ‘Maybe I made a mistake.’”





No.26 article:
Rhiannon Giddens Aims at 1800s America in Her Silkroad Plans

Under its new artistic director, the cross-cultural music organization will start a project devoted to the transcontinental railroad.

It was initially surprising news when it was announced in July that Rhiannon Giddens was taking over as artistic director of the cross-cultural music organization Silkroad.

What did Ms. Giddens — a vocalist, fiddler and banjo player known primarily for helping revive the tradition of Black American string bands — have to do with Silkroad, an ensemble founded by Yo-Yo Ma to bring together performers and music connected to the ancient trade routes between East Asia and the Mediterranean?

More than might have been apparent. Before Ms. Giddens learned to play the banjo, she trained as an opera singer. The classical world isn’t foreign to her, and she’s performed with Silkroad’s touring ensemble.

And her career has been devoted to the Silkroad-style illumination of hidden commonalities. As a history-minded founding member of the Carolina Chocolate Drops and in her subsequent solo work, she has brought attention to the largely forgotten role of Black people in bluegrass and other American music associated with whiteness. Over the past few years, with the Italian musician Francesco Turrisi, she has been exploring the ways American music has always been “world music,” taking in elements from Africa, the Arab world, Europe and Latin America.

That exploration is at the core of her plans for Silkroad, which she began announcing on Friday. Her most ambitious idea is The American Silkroad, a multiyear project that will include concerts, commissions and educational endeavors focused on the construction of the transcontinental railroad in the 19th century.

It’s a major undertaking that won’t start coming to fruition for at least a year. For the moment, then, Ms. Giddens is getting to know the ensemble’s musicians virtually and is preparing a concert series for when live performances are again possible.

On a recent video call from her home in Ireland, Ms. Giddens, 43, spoke about her plans. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.

What was your reaction when you were offered the Silkroad job back in February?

I’m getting older and had been thinking, is there a bigger platform I could be involved in that could reach more people? My partner, Francesco Turrisi, had already brought my music into a global context. I didn’t see the offer coming, but the more I thought about it, the more it seemed that this could really work.

It’s what I was looking for without knowing it: an organization that can do more than just one person doing a concert. And then you have Silkroad’s classical and folk traditions that I’m equally steeped in, and it does make a lot of sense.

I’ve been on either side of the fence in a lot of different ways in my life. That allows me to look at things from multiple points of view, and with a group like this, that’s imperative. I’m a bridge.

Why start with this transcontinental railroad project?

The first thought I had was the connection between the Chinese music at the heart of Silkroad and the Chinese immigrants who were such a huge part of building the railroad. But I’ve always been interested in the stories we do and don’t tell about the railroad, about African-Americans and native populations. All the roots of what’s happening in the country today are in the history of people mixing. I want to bring more rigorous historical connections and expose our mission.

What is that mission?

I’ve just come on board, and my job is to figure out how the ensemble is feeling and what we’re trying to say and to sharpen the details. “We’re more alike than we’re different” is a great thing to say, but how?

Maybe with a group that combines instruments from different traditions. But is there a risk of smudging the details?

This is something that Francesco and I talk about a lot. We’ve all heard these groups — I’m not calling out names — that just smash things together, djembe with harp or whatever. But Silkroad is about as far away from that as you can get. These are people who have spent the time together and created a sound. The instrument is just a tool. We’re all trying to tell the human story.

Through the mixing?

The reason that things can combine is because there’s a core of similarity. If different cultures couldn’t talk to each other, we wouldn’t have rock ’n’ roll or bluegrass or the blues. It’s the folks that want power who want to keep us divided. They’re the ones who say, “You guys invented this, and you invented that and never the twain shall meet.” The more we can expose cross-cultural collaboration, the better.

How?

It’s about specifics. There’s a ballad about the Swannanoa Tunnel that’s been sung in white communities forever. Then these folks did this amazing research and found out it was actually about Black railroad workers. But that was erased and a whole group of people were forgotten and it added to the myth of a pure white Appalachia. You know, any time the story is simple, it’s probably wrong. The more I dig, the more complicated it gets. And that’s the beauty of it.

So it’s about complicating the story?

It’s about chipping away at who gets to say “I represent America.” There are so many stories that through music we can explore in ways that are thought-provoking without people feeling attacked. Silkroad has people from all over, and that’s what makes it such a great group to represent the American story, because that’s what the American story is. We are world music. With Silkroad, we have the opportunity to show that at the heart of American creation is the world.

Is expanding the audience also part of the mission?

Yes, that’s huge. I’ve had my own issues with who has access to my music, with ticket prices and a lot of stuff I don’t have control over. I wish more of the Black community even knew what I’m trying to do. But with an ensemble and a nonprofit organization, there’s muscle that can be brought to bear. There’s the concert hall, and there’s fantastic work in communities, but there’s a huge middle ground that needs to be developed. People underestimate folks all the time. There’s loads of people who would love this music but aren’t being reached.

How has the pandemic affected all this?

It’s been so awful for so many people. But I’ve heard a lot of my fellow artists say it’s an opportunity to ask what is our art for. We’ve created a consumerist industry out of something that shouldn’t be an industry. How do we align what we want our art to do with how we do it?





No.27 article:
Thieves Grab Nazi Memorabilia in Museum Heists, Puzzling Police

Rare uniforms and other items have been stolen in a spate of robberies at war museums in Denmark and the Netherlands.

It was 2 a.m. on a Tuesday when the raid began at the Eyewitness War Museum in the town of Beek, the Netherlands.

First, a group of thieves teased open the museum’s front gate. “You can see it on our cameras,” Wim Seelen, the museum’s director, said in a telephone interview.

But then, they disappeared.

An hour later, the burglars returned in several estate cars. In a scene reminiscent of a heist movie, they spread out tires across the highway that runs past the museum to create a roadblock, and parked a fake police car beside it, so it looked official.

Over the next five minutes, the group — maybe 12 people in total, Mr. Seelen said — battered down the museum’s front door, broke display cabinets and took what they’d come for: nine mannequins wearing rare Nazi uniforms. The outfits included one worn by Hitler’s personal chef, and another by a high-ranking member of the S.S.

The robbers took other items of World War II memorabilia, Mr. Seelen said, with the haul worth about $1.5 million in total.

“It was done with military precision,” he added. The museum’s alarms went off, but the police — held up by the roadblock — arrived too late to catch anyone.

“Of course, I’m terrified it will happen again,” Mr. Seelen said.

The Aug. 4 raid in Beek was only the most dramatic in a string of recent robberies from World War II museums in Europe, and the burglaries are spreading panic among similar institutions.

Since March, four museums in the Netherlands and Denmark have been broken into, and memorabilia, including Nazi uniforms, has been stolen. The most recent raid took place on Nov. 3, when robbers broke through a window at the German Museum North Schleswig, in southern Denmark, and made off with three mannequins in Nazi outfits.

Administrators from all four of the burglarized institutions said in telephone interviews that they believed the thieves were acting on the orders of collectors looking to get their hands on rare Nazi memorabilia. But they were uncertain whether the robberies were carried out by the same group, or were simply part of a worrying trend.

Officers of the Dutch and Danish police said in telephone interviews that they had no suspects in any of the robberies, but were looking for patterns.

Richard Bronswijk of the Dutch police’s art crime unit, said his team had two theories: that wealthy collectors in Russia or Eastern Europe had ordered the robberies, or that they were undertaken by supporters of the far right. The second theory was less likely, he added, “as those guys don’t have much money, and like to buy replicas.”

The raid at the Eyewitness War Museum was incredibly professional, he said. “They were really like ‘Ocean’s Twelve,’” he added, referring to the Hollywood heist movie.

The Netherlands and Denmark, which were both occupied by Nazi Germany during World War II, have numerous small, private and state-funded museums devoted to the history of that conflict. Many have glass display cases filled with memorabilia including weapons, and dioramas depicting scenes from the war, with mannequins in original uniforms. There are around 100 in the Netherlands alone, Mr. Seelen estimated.

Many Dutch museums have taken rare items off display or improved their security systems in response to the recent robberies. The Arnhem War Museum has installed anti-tank barriers at its entrance, “so people can’t come with a big truck,” said Marina Moens, one of its owners.

Concern is growing in Denmark, too. “I’m sure every museum’s taking precautions,” Henrik Skov Kristensen, the director of the Froslev Camp Museum, said in a telephone interview. “But if someone’s determined to do something like this, they will.”

Mr. Kristensen’s museum, set in a former prison camp in Denmark, was robbed in March. The burglars also took S.S. uniforms. After finding no leads, the Danish police closed the investigation in April, he said.

Giel van Wassenhove, a Belgian dealer in military memorabilia, said in a telephone interview that the value of Nazi items had been rising for years. “The stuff that’s being stolen is all very desirable, and the prices are going crazy,” he said. “Everyone knows if it’s got a Nazi emblem on it, its price is high.”

An S.S. uniform could fetch anywhere from $3,500 to $35,000, he said.

In the two Dutch robberies, thieves stole a special rifle, the “F.G. 42,” which was used by Nazi paratroopers, Mr. van Wassenhove said. A decade ago, he said, that gun was worth about $60,000; today, it is worth more than $175,000.

But Mr. van Wassenhove played down suggestions that a boom in far-right collectors was driving the soaring prices. Most buyers were investors simply chasing a profit, he said.

Many museums might not realize the value of objects in their collections, Mr. van Wassenhove added.

Those that do are not taking any chances: Ms. Moens of the Arnhem War Museum said that, in addition to installing anti-tank barriers, the museum had taken all its Nazi uniforms off display. In October, the War Museum Overloon returned two rare books it had borrowed from an Amsterdam institute, including a “Book of the Dead” listing 1,500 victims of the Holocaust at Auschwitz. Janneke Kennis, a spokeswoman for the museum, said the museum feared the books could be targeted by thieves.

Mr. Seelen said the raid at the Eyewitness Museum had been so devastating that, for weeks afterward, he considered closing down. He said he knew he would never see the items again.

But World War II museums are not just homes for memorabilia, he said: they play an important educational role.

“The Second World War was a period of so much suffering that we have to tell the story of it, to make sure it never ever happens again,” he said. “I’m not going to quit telling that story.”





No.28 article:
Miami Marlins Hire Kim Ng, Breaking a Baseball Gender Barrier

Ng has twice been an assistant general manager, but after 30 years in the game she will be the first woman to lead a major league front office.

Kim Ng has long been viewed as the person who would break one of baseball’s most stubborn barriers.

Thirty years ago, Ms. Ng, 51, started work in the game as an intern for the Chicago White Sox, attempting to carve out a career in a sport dominated by men. She worked her way up, earning senior positions with the Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers and, most recently, serving as Major League Baseball’s senior vice president of baseball operations.

On Friday, she became the first woman hired to run a major league team’s baseball operations when she was named general manager of the Miami Marlins.

“This challenge is one I don’t take lightly,” Ms. Ng said in a statement released by the team. “When I got into this business, it seemed unlikely a woman would lead a major league team, but I am dogged in the pursuit of my goals.”

The significance of Ms. Ng’s hiring extends beyond baseball, as she is the first woman to be a general manager in any of the major men’s sports leagues in North America. The move, to many in baseball, was considered long overdue and comes at a time when several other women are moving up the ranks of the sport after years of resistance, and as women begin to populate the benches and boardrooms of professional football and basketball teams.

“I felt from 15 years ago that she was always the best candidate for the job, and for whatever reason, people weren’t prepared to make that move,” said Dan Evans, who in 1990 hired Ms. Ng as an intern for the Chicago White Sox. “So I congratulate the Marlins, because this is not just a baseball move, this is a generational move. Young women throughout the world view Kim differently today, and this gives them hope that that platform could be theirs someday.”

Ms. Ng (pronounced “ANG”) has a formidable résumé: After seven years with the White Sox, she spent 13 as an assistant general manager, first with the Yankees before leaving in 2002 to rejoin Mr. Evans, who was running the Dodgers. All of those teams reached the postseason during her tenure, but while Ms. Ng received interviews for at least four general manager openings, she was not chosen for the role until Friday.

Derek Jeter, the Marlins’ chief executive, was the Yankees’ star shortstop during Ms. Ng’s time as assistant general manager to Brian Cashman. Mr. Jeter cited her “wealth of knowledge and championship-level experience” in naming her as the top decision-maker on his baseball operations staff. She will be responsible for, among other things, making trades, negotiating contracts, running the team’s draft and managing its moves in free agency.

“Kim’s appointment makes history in all of professional sports,” Commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement, “and sets a significant example for the millions of women and girls who love baseball and softball.”

Women have owned franchises in baseball and other major sports in the past, and still do, but never had one held the position of general manager. Once excluded from baseball, women are entering the industry more than ever. Forty percent of the professional employees at Major League Baseball’s central office are women (the highest percentage since 2008), and 21 women had on-field coaching or player development roles for organizations entering 2020 (up from only three in 2017), according to the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida.

Still, that institute’s latest report card gave Major League Baseball and its 30 teams a C grade for gender hiring. Of the roughly 500 vice president jobs among the 30 clubs, only 95 were held by women, according to the report, and only 19 were women of color — about 4 percent of all vice-president level positions.

The news of Ms. Ng’s hiring was cause for celebration Friday among the dozens of women in full-time baseball-operations jobs who share a text chain. Many in the group chat, which was created in the summer of 2019, look up to Ms. Ng as a role model.

The group’s founder, Jen Wolf, 33, a life-skills coordinator in the Cleveland Indians’ farm system, said she was star struck earlier in her career when she first met Ms. Ng at an annual industrywide conference. She later worked under Ms. Ng in Major League Baseball’s central office; it was a powerful experience, Ms. Wolf said, not only because she could learn directly from a role model but because she had another woman as a boss in baseball.

Ms. Wolf said her first thought upon hearing the news was happiness for her friend and mentor.

“And then my second thought was: it’s about time,” Ms. Wolf said. “Anyone with her résumé should have been hired years ago, so I’m very excited. I feel like males with a similar résumé would have been hired ages ago.”

Before this season, Rachel Balkovec, a Yankees’ minor-league instructor, was believed to be the first woman hired as a full-time hitting coach by a major-league organization. Rachel Folden, also a minor-league hitting instructor but with the Chicago Cubs, was the first female coach in that organization’s history. And in July, Alyssa Nakken of the San Francisco Giants became the first woman in major league history to coach on the field.

“The most important thing for me is that this is not a one-off in all of these roles,” Ms. Wolf said. “Just because Alyssa, Kim and both Rachels are the firsts, they should by no means be the last. They’re incredible women, but there are so many more amazing, incredible women that are ready for those roles as well.”

Ms. Ng was born in Indianapolis but grew up in Queens and graduated from Ridgewood High School in New Jersey. At the University of Chicago, she starred in softball and graduated with a degree in public policy. The White Sox internship soon led to a role as the team’s assistant director of baseball operations.

“Kim would come in every day and ask me a series of questions, and at lunch ask more questions,” Mr. Evans said. “She had a thirst to learn why. She grew into her role so quickly, and the fun thing was to watch the evolution of people getting more and more comfortable with a female in the room. She had pressure that most other people don’t have: She had to prove herself all the time.”

Ms. Ng entered the game when top positions were often filled by former professional players, almost all of them white. Those positions rarely go to former players anymore, as increasingly teams lean on decisions driven more heavily by data than scouting or on-field experience.

Ms. Ng’s hiring resonated throughout an industry that remains heavily male and white. At the beginning of the 2020 season, only four people of color led baseball operations departments: Ken Williams of the Chicago White Sox, Farhan Zaidi of the San Francisco Giants, Al Avila of the Detroit Tigers and the Marlins’ Michael Hill, whom Ms. Ng is replacing.

This stood in stark contrast to the field, where nearly 40 percent of this season’s opening day rosters were made up of players of color, according to the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport. Latinos, the largest minority group in baseball, made up nearly 30 percent of major-league players, followed by Black (about 8 percent) and Asian (roughly 2 percent).

Ms. Ng is believed to be the second person of Asian descent to lead a team. Mr. Zaidi, the Dodgers’ general manager from 2014 to 2018 and now the Giants’ president of baseball operations, was born in Canada to parents from Pakistan.

Mr. Jeter, who is biracial, became Miami’s chief executive when the ownership group he is a part of bought the Marlins in 2017. He has emphasized diversity in his remaking of the Marlins, who ended a 17-year postseason drought this season.

Jean Afterman, who succeeded Ms. Ng as the Yankees’ assistant general manager nearly two decades ago, said she believed Mr. Jeter has found a perfect person to run his team.

“To be a G.M. in Major League Baseball, you need intelligence, vision and experience,” Ms. Afterman said in a statement released by the Yankees. “These qualities of leadership, which Kim possesses in abundance, are gender-blind.”





No.29 article:
From ‘Street Kid’ in India to Top Toronto Chef

After a rugged childhood, Sash Simpson realized his dream last year when he opened a high-end restaurant. Within months, the pandemic struck.

TORONTO — Sash Simpson made his name as a chef for Canada’s rich, preparing them chardonnay-poached lobster and $27 foie gras-smothered burgers.

But four decades ago, he was a street kid in southern India, eating out of garbage bins behind restaurants in Coimbatore, a textile hub in the state of Tamil Nadu.

When he was around 8 years old, staff members of an orphanage noticed him begging at a bus station. He was living in a nearby movie theater, cleaning floors in return for a place to sleep. The orphanage workers persuaded him to come back with them, and that, in his telling, is when his life really began.

“It’s all timing. Either one second earlier, one second later, and they might have missed me,” said Mr. Simpson, who recently celebrated his 50th birthday, though he’s not sure of his age. “I’m a believer in miracles. It happened to me.”

One of Canada’s top chefs, Mr. Simpson opened his own restaurant last year, with all the luxury touches he could never have imagined 45 years ago: valet car service; four kinds of caviar, and vodka served with gold-encrusted ice.

The timing was terrible. Toronto’s restaurants have been among the worst hit in North America, losing about 80 percent of the reservations they had received in 2019, according to data collected by OpenTable, an online restaurant-reservation service. They were shut for almost five months during the first wave of the coronavirus, and then after a two-month reprieve, ordered closed again on Oct. 10.

“Everything I have is in this,” Mr. Simpson said on a recent October morning, sitting in a $600 gray tweed custom-made chair in his empty restaurant, looking over two dozen empty tables.

Mr. Simpson’s memories of his childhood are a small collection of blurry mental snapshots: A shack in a slum by the train tracks was home. A father speaking in sign language and working in a tobacco factory. Two older siblings. Many long nights, jumping on and off trains. Only recently did he obtain his adoption file, which stated that his mother had “run off with a male friend” and that his brother had left him at the bus station. But Mr. Simpson has no recollection of that.

“I don’t know where I’m from in India exactly,” he said. “I call my house the place where they found me.”

The orphanage was founded by a small Canadian nonprofit organization, Families for Children, to support and raise abandoned children. Most were adopted very young. The older ones stayed, attending school, until they could move out. Young Sash made it his mission to become the exception.

Every time the group’s founder, Sandra Simpson — who he remembers as impossibly tall, and blonde and revered in the place “like the president,” — arrived at the orphanage, he tugged on her skirt and repeated a combination of “Mummy” and “Canada.”

“He pestered the life out of me to come to Canada,” Ms. Simpson, now 83, wrote in an email from Montreal, where she still runs Families for Children. “I told him I would look for a family but we had nobody waiting for a boy that age. We decided to adopt Sashi into our family,” she said, using Sash’s legal name.

After five days of flying, Mr. Simpson arrived in Toronto during a snowstorm in 1979. His first memory of meeting his new family was the sight of a flickering box revealing a woman in red boots with a lasso. He was stunned. “I’d never seen television before,” he said. Sitting around a picnic table watching were “a million kids” — Sash’s new brothers and sisters.

The Simpsons later appeared on a television advertisement for Anacin, a pain medication, as “Canada’s largest family.”

By the time Sash Simpson’s formal adoption application was typed up in 1984, the family had 26 children, 20 of them adopted, four biological and another two fostered in the home. They came from countries ravaged by civil wars, natural disasters or poverty, as disparate as Ecuador and Somalia. Many were severely disabled.

They lived in a 22-room mansion in Forest Hill, one of Toronto’s wealthiest neighborhoods, on loan from an investment banker and philanthropist. Sash got his first job delivering newspapers at age 12, so he could buy his own clothes, separate from the household’s communal pile.

At 14, he began working as a dishwasher at the restaurant where his older sister Melanie worked as a waitress.

“I had this mentality, ‘I’ll never be that again, what I was when I was adopted,’” he said. He soon migrated into the kitchen — a place familiar to most of the Simpson children, as they took shifts cooking pancake breakfasts and roast chicken dinners for the household.

“If anything, it made restaurants easy for us,” said Melanie Simpson, who went on to open her own Toronto restaurant called Mel’s Montreal Delicatessen. “It’s very, very hard for us to pare meals down to normal sizes.”

Wednesday nights were Sash’s shift, synonymous with garlic bread and spaghetti Bolognese.

“I always thought, ‘I want to feed people,’” said Mr. Simpson, who also cooks regular meals for a downtown homeless shelter. “It felt like a way to take care of them.”

While he slid in seamlessly with his new family, school was not a good fit, after so many years on the streets. He dropped out in 12th grade and went to work full-time in the kitchens of casual, family-style restaurants

In 1993, he saw an ad for a job at North 44, a high-end restaurant in the city’s north end. Mr. Simpson had never eaten at a place like it, let alone cooked that kind of food. 

He arrived at the kitchen door one evening and was  sent away. Not only did he lack formal culinary training, but he was deep in his Michael Jackson phase — from the strings of hair hanging over his eyes to the single glove.

But he employed the same tactic that secured his adoption, returning two more times until the chef agreed to let him work there for three months, without pay.

Mr. Simpson worked his way from one kitchen station to the next, learning how to build a salad with color and texture and simmer down a blond chicken stock overnight.

“I saw ingredients I’d never witnessed,” he said. “I was eating steak tartare, foie gras and mushrooms I had never heard of before — porcini, chanterelle, morel.”

Though his sisters say he always showed an innate gift for cooking, Mr. Simpson thinks it was his work ethic that propelled him up the ranks. He arrived early and worked late, filling in holes as he saw them.

“To this day, he calls the dish room his office,” said Amanda Lambert, a sous-chef who worked under Mr. Simpson for five years. “He’ll do all the nitty-gritty stuff, like taking out the garbage.”

In 2003, Mr. Simpson was named executive chef, overseeing the kitchen and catering intimate events and galas.

He gained a reputation for impeccable service. He made the city’s rich feel special, by remembering how many ice cubes they liked in their scotch, and how they preferred soup to salad.

At a catering event in 2008, he met Robin Pitcher, an event planner 11 years his junior. They have been married nine years.

Three days after she gave birth to their second son, Sawyer, Mr. Simpson opened Sash, to glowing reviews.

The past eight months, Mr. Simpson says, have been the most stressful of his life. He has borrowed money to cover the payroll of a bare-bones staff, even after government subsidies were collected. He spends his days in his empty restaurant, reaching out to clients to see if they are interested in ordering takeout  or having their family parties catered. 

Forty-odd years after eating from garbage cans, Mr. Simpson sees some irony in feeding the country’s ultrarich. But, as always, he’s focused on survival.

“There is no way this restaurant is closing,” he said, adding: “I was a street kid. You have to fight for it.”





No.30 article:
Mr. President, Pack Your Bags and Be Gone

Trump wants to preserve, protect and defend only himself.

The ruler broods, alone with his rage and shame, undone by rejection, his mind, like Macbeth’s, “full of scorpions,” plotting to overturn facts and destroy American democracy. His lackeys, and only they remain, try to humor the master in his labyrinth.

Donald Trump, departing president, lost in an election that a division of the Department of Homeland Security has now called “the most secure in American history,” with no “evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes or was in any way compromised.”

Mr. President, get the boxes, get the tape, pack your bags and be gone.

He can’t. He won’t. It’s not in the man. Truth is unbearable. Fraud! Rigged! Trump can no more accept defeat than recall the fact that he took an oath to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.”

His only vow is to preserve, protect and defend himself. He has never been able to see beyond that orange face in the mirror. No Bible offers consolation to this man, no creed, no truth, no sense of decency, not even Fox News now, nothing.

With his victory in Arizona and Georgia confirmed, Joe Biden, the president-elect, has 306 electoral votes, 36 more than the 270 needed to take the White House. He will end up with about 80 million popular votes, the most any candidate has ever gotten, and over five million more than Trump.

No recount can turn these numbers around. No evidence has emerged to back Trump’s lawsuits challenging the outcomes. Biden did not squeak this victory. He won clearly, period.

Even Ted Olson, who successfully argued for then-candidate George W. Bush in the 2000 Bush v. Gore Supreme Court case, says it’s over and Biden is president-elect, The National Law Journal reported. “And we have — I do believe the election is over — and we do have a new president,” Olson said. “And we do because a large number of people expressed disapproval, whether one agrees with that or not, of the manner, style and techniques of this particular president.”

Except that it’s not over. Desperation drives Trump to look, still, for a means to secure what Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has called “a smooth transition to a second Trump administration.” The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, says it’s not over. They are complicit in a power grab.

It’s come to this in the United States of America. Trump has always been a danger to democratic institutions and the rule of law. He’s empowered dictators across the world. I’ve witnessed elections stolen in places like Iran. I never thought I would see an attempt to deny the will of the American people.

My colleague Maggie Haberman described a recent White House meeting where Trump pressed to know “whether Republican legislatures could pick pro-Trump electors in a handful of key states and deliver him the electoral votes he needs to change the math and give him a second term.”

This is Trump’s so-called Hail Mary plan. In plain language, it’s a potential political coup. Biden beat Trump by 148,000 votes in Michigan, 58,000 votes in Pennsylvania, 36,000 votes in Nevada, 20,000 votes in Wisconsin, 14,000 votes in Georgia and 11,000 votes in Arizona. For Trump to win, as Andrew Prokop wrote in Vox, he needs to “change the outcome in at least three of those states — a very tall order.”

Article II of the Constitution says that the states must appoint electors to the Electoral College “in such manner as the Legislature thereof may direct.” The state legislatures of Wisconsin, Michigan, Georgia, Arizona and Pennsylvania are Republican-controlled. How does this look to a man like Trump who, as my friend Greg Schwed, a lawyer, put it to me, has never “failed to take the path that would preserve his vanity and power, no matter what law or tradition it would violate?”

It looks like possible salvation.

Republican legislators may feel beholden to Trump. Some of them might conclude they’re finished if they do not do his bidding. These legislators might — might — decide to ignore the popular vote, perhaps by declaring the mail-in ballots invalid, even in the absence of a hint of voter fraud, and thus install a slate of Trump electors, claiming he won with the “legal” popular vote. The Electoral College votes Dec. 14 to choose officially the next president.

This potential maneuver is preposterous and vile. Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania all have Democratic governors, who would try to veto or block such a move. The attorney general of Pennsylvania, Josh Shapiro, has already declared that for the State Legislature “there is no legal mechanism to act alone and appoint electors. None.”

Or, in theory, legislatures could try to change the law overnight, if enough Republicans have taken leave of their consciences and concluded American democracy is expendable. I will not attempt to describe the mess that could ensue in Congress, except to say that it would be murky, and there’s a 6-to-3 conservative majority in the Supreme Court.

This is a column I never thought I would write. But better to write it than to be blindsided. The world needs an American democracy restored, rid of its brooding ruler, and led by the man who won, Joe Biden. End of story.





No.31 article:
Once Loyal to Trump, Law Firms Pull Back From His Election Fight

Porter Wright withdrew from a federal lawsuit it had filed days earlier. A top Jones Day lawyer said the firm wouldn’t take on new election litigation.

Law firms that have represented President Trump and his campaign are now distancing themselves from a quixotic effort by Mr. Trump and his allies to overturn the results of the election won by President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Porter Wright Morris &amp; Arthur, the law firm leading the Trump campaign’s efforts to challenge the presidential election results in Pennsylvania, abruptly withdrew from a federal lawsuit that it had filed on behalf of the campaign. That followed a similar move by an Arizona law firm that was representing the Republican Party as it challenged that state’s results.

And on Friday, a top lawyer at Jones Day, which has represented Mr. Trump’s campaigns for more than four years, told colleagues during a video conference call that Jones Day would not get involved in additional litigation in this election.

The moves by the law firms are the latest blows to Mr. Trump’s efforts to use a barrage of litigation to challenge the integrity of the election results. Some lawyers at Porter Wright and Jones Day had become increasingly vocal about their concerns that the work their firms were doing was helping to legitimize the president’s arguments. One Porter Wright lawyer resigned in protest over the summer.

Porter Wright’s decision was especially remarkable, because the firm stepped away from a federal lawsuit that it had filed only days earlier.

“Plaintiffs and Porter Wright have reached a mutual agreement that plaintiffs will be best served if Porter Wright withdraws,” the law firm said in a court filing late Thursday.

The Trump campaign reacted angrily on Friday. “Cancel Culture has finally reached the courtroom,” Tim Murtaugh, the campaign’s communications director, said in a statement. “Leftist mobs descended upon some of the lawyers representing the president’s campaign and they buckled.” He added that Mr. Trump’s team “is undeterred” and would continue its litigation.

Porter Wright — which is based in Columbus, Ohio, and has offices in Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. — is one of the few prominent law firms that have been representing Mr. Trump’s campaign or the Republican Party as they challenge aspects of the election.

In states like Arizona, the Trump campaign and Republicans have relied mostly on local law firms, not ones with national profiles, to file cases challenging the election results or the voting process.

Snell &amp; Wilmer, a Phoenix law firm, withdrew as counsel to the Republican National Committee on Sunday after filing a lawsuit in Maricopa County that claimed votes for Mr. Trump were improperly excluded from the vote tally. Matt Feeney, the chairman of Snell &amp; Wilmer, declined to comment.

Jones Day, one of the country’s largest law firms, was counsel to Mr. Trump’s 2016 and 2020 campaigns, and during the Trump presidency, it has been involved in roughly 20 lawsuits involving Mr. Trump, his campaign or the Republican Party.

Most recently, Jones Day has been representing the Republican Party in Pennsylvania in litigation about the handling of mail-in votes received after Election Day. Some partners at the firm have voiced discomfort about its involvement in that case, as well as Jones Day’s broader work for the Trump campaign.

Dave Petrou, a Jones Day spokesman, said in a statement this week that the Pennsylvania litigation involved important constitutional questions. “Jones Day will not withdraw from that representation,” he said. Mr. Petrou noted that the firm had not made allegations of voter fraud and was not contesting the election results.

Kevyn D. Orr, the partner in charge of Jones Day’s Washington office, tried to defuse the criticisms on internal conference calls on Friday. He pointed out that the firm’s work on election-related litigation was limited to the single Pennsylvania case, according to two people who were on the call. He said other law firms that had made unsubstantiated allegations of election fraud were engaged in “unprincipled advocacy.”

Some lawyers at the firm remained unsatisfied.

“I believe the question is whether this firm should lend its prestige and credibility to the project of an administration bent on undermining our democracy and our rule of law,” Parker A. Rider-Longmaid, a Jones Day lawyer in Washington, wrote to colleagues in an email reviewed by The New York Times. “We as lawyers choose our clients and our causes. We choose what we stand for. And this project, I submit, should not be one of those things.” Mr. Rider-Longmaid did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Mr. Orr also told colleagues that Jones Day would not be getting involved in additional litigation surrounding the election. “We get it,” one of the people quoted him as saying.

The Lincoln Project, a well-funded group of anti-Trump Republicans, this week began publicly urging employees of Jones Day and Porter Wright to resign and said it would call on clients to stop working with the firms.

Mr. Orr told colleagues that clients had already been contacting Jones Day with queries about the firm’s election work.

Mr. Petrou, the Jones Day spokesman, didn’t respond to a request for comment on Friday.

Porter Wright is the firm that has been most involved in the Trump campaign’s efforts to invalidate the results in Pennsylvania, where Mr. Biden beat Mr. Trump by more than 50,000 votes.

The firm has filed a number of actions in Pennsylvania courts challenging aspects of the state’s voting process. The suit that the law firm withdrew from on Thursday was filed on Monday in the Federal District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on behalf of the Trump campaign. It alleged that there were “irregularities” in the presidential vote across the state.

Jones Day was not involved in that suit, which is pending. The Democratic National Committee has filed a motion to dismiss it.

A Porter Wright spokeswoman, Melanie Farkas, said on Friday that the firm would work “to ensure transition to substitute counsel, and so as not to cause material adverse effect on the client’s interest.” She declined to comment further.

It isn’t clear if Porter Wright will continue to represent Mr. Trump’s campaign on the other cases it has filed.

One Porter Wright partner, Jeremy A. Mercer, spoke at a Trump campaign news conference in Pennsylvania last week. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, introduced Mr. Mercer as a volunteer election observer who had been “obstructed in a horrible way.” Mr. Mercer added, “We’re there, supposedly observing, but we can’t see.”

Neither mentioned that Mr. Mercer was a lawyer at the firm representing Mr. Trump’s campaign. Reached on Friday, Mr. Mercer declined to comment.

On Wednesday, Porter Wright issued a statement noting its “long history of election law work during which we have represented Democratic, Republican and independent campaigns and issues.”

“At times, this calls for us to take on controversial cases,” the statement said. “We expect criticism in such instances, and we affirm the right of all individuals to express concern and disagreement.”





No.32 article:
Time to Take a Pledge: No Stocks if You’re a Member of Congress

Owning actively traded shares can create conflicts of interest. Georgia’s Senate candidates agree. Will others? Mutual funds could be good for them.

The nation’s balance of power is at stake as both senators from Georgia face runoff elections in early January. The campaigns have been bitter, and they stand to get more so.

But here is one matter that the four candidates agree on, even if some of them have come to it begrudgingly: Owning and trading individual shares of stock has stopped making sense.

One of the two Republican incumbents, Kelly Loeffler, sold all of her stock this year. Her trading in the early days of the pandemic, in the wake of a private Senate briefing, had come under scrutiny. The other, David Perdue, sold all but three stocks after his trades also generated controversy.

Ms. Loeffler’s Democratic challenger, the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock, owns only mutual funds and thinks all members of Congress should do the same. Jon Ossoff, the Democrat trying to take Mr. Perdue’s seat, also supports a stock ownership ban and would sell the more than $500,000 of Apple shares he owns if he won.

The potential for the reduction of conflicts of interest, or the appearance of them, is all for the good. But here’s the other thing that many of our 535 elected representatives should learn: Shunning stock trading is a better way to build bigger balances.

I learned this the hard way, albeit with much less money than the senators are playing around with. In 1994, I was in and out of a regional bank stock, but even when a bigger institution bought the company, I didn’t make much more money than I would have in a mutual fund that owned every stock in the market. In the wake of the terrorist attacks in 2001, I bought a stock related to airport security with similarly middling results.

Then, in 2002, I went to work for The Wall Street Journal, where strict rules kept reporters away from any individual securities. In the absence of owning any stock aside from that of the newspaper’s parent company, editors could assign reporters to anything without worrying about conflicts. Hopefully, staff would also steer clear of the temptation to try to trade on information that was about to be in the articles. The New York Times had similar rules when I arrived in 2008, and they remain in place.

It was a relief, frankly. No knock on people who enjoy gambling and trade stocks as a hobby (using only money they can afford to lose), but trying to predict a stock’s performance and outsmart other investors just wasn’t my idea of a good time.

Then, as I learned more on the job about the stock market, I realized how much better my odds of long-term financial security were going to be if I didn’t trade stocks or try to beat the market. Far better to stick to mutual funds that simply owned most or all of a particular market segment.

The evidence is everywhere, and someone ought to spend 15 minutes shoving it under the nose of every member of Congress who shows up in Washington for the first time. Where to start?

Extremely active investors, as Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue were, might begin with the classic 2000 paper “Trading Is Hazardous to Your Wealth,” which used the records of over 66,000 households to show that the annual returns of people who traded the most were 6.5 percentage points lower than the overall market.

Next, they could move on to what a different set of academics believed was the first-ever analysis of the actual portfolios of members of Congress between 2004 and 2008. It turned out they weren’t great at this investing thing and would have done better in basic index funds. If they had invested $100 that way, they would have ended that harrowing period with $80. Instead, the average member who felt above average ended up with $69.

Stocks bounce around a lot. Past performance is no indication of future success. If you don’t believe it, check out the Stock Pickers chart on the site of a firm called Index Fund Advisors. It re-ranks the performance of 18 household-name stocks over each of 20 years, before your very eyes.

To take this thought further, consider a bit of analysis from Dimensional Fund Advisors: If you examine the entire top 10 percent of stocks each year since 1994, fewer than a fifth, on average, make the top 10 the next year. “Investors with concentrated portfolios may actually miss out on the very stocks that deliver the best of what the market has to offer,” the firm notes.

In fact, according to a different bit of research, the best-performing 4 percent of stocks contributed the stock market’s entire net gain since 1926. Buy index funds, the logic of which is apparent in several research notes on Vanguard’s website, and you’ll get every security that makes up whatever the 4 percent might be for the next 100 years.

So why do so many individuals use other strategies instead? One reason could be ignorance. Or hubris born of the past decade, when stocks have mostly gone up. Also, plenty of people like gambling. And now that companies like Robinhood have lowered the transaction costs of active trading, it’s just so tempting to press one’s luck, especially when you’re bored during a pandemic.

I suspect something else is at work with the Georgia senators. Both denied using inside information they got on the job to inform their trades (and were cleared when investigators looked into it), and both said they had outside advisers trading without their knowledge.

But the success and drive that allowed Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue to succeed in business and gave them the confidence to run for office could easily extend to a wrongheaded investment strategy. If you’re a person who keeps winning in life, it’s tempting to talk yourself into believing you can pick investments that outperform an index fund — or pick advisers who can do so for you, even after you compute the impact of their fees on your returns.

Congress could make this issue go away, and some members have introduced bills that would restrict stock ownership. It could also create or extend workarounds for the newly elected that would make it easier for people like Mr. Ossoff to enter public service and sell a bunch of Apple stock without generating a large tax bill.

But let’s be real. Bills like that aren’t going to be a high priority anytime soon. Better, then, that members of Congress erase any perception of impropriety on their own — and protect their portfolios to boot — by getting out of individual stocks altogether, voluntarily.

I tip my cap to the four candidates in Georgia, to varying degrees, for doing this already or getting close. I look forward to asking every new member of Congress to do the same thing come January.





No.33 article:
Top A.N.C. Official Charged With Corruption in South Africa

The secretary general of the governing African National Congress faces 21 charges including kickbacks and fraud, in a case likely to deepen divisions within the party.

JOHANNESBURG — A top member of South Africa’s governing African National Congress party appeared in court on Friday, charged with corruption, in a rare sign that powerful members of the party could be held to account for endemic pilfering of public funds under former President Jacob Zuma.

Ace Magashule, the party’s secretary general, was charged with 21 counts including fraud, money laundering and corruption, in a court in Bloemfontein, the capital of the Free State province, where he headed the government for nearly a decade. Mr. Magashule, who denies any wrongdoing, was released on bail.

Mr. Magashule is considered one of the A.N.C.’s “top six” — the most influential members of the party that has governed South Africa since the end of white minority rule in 1994. He oversees the day-to-day running of the party, and his arrest could, in theory, push him to leave the influential position.

Earlier this year, the party requested that all members facing graft charges step aside until their cases were resolved, although dozens of midlevel officials have yet to follow that guidance.

But this case is profoundly consequential for both Mr. Magashule and the A.N.C. He is the highest-profile serving politician to face charges since Cyril Ramaphosa was elected president two years ago in a fiercely contested leadership race. In a fractious party, Mr. Magashule has emerged as a top rival to Mr. Ramaphosa, instead throwing his support behind the former president, Mr. Zuma.

The charges against Mr. Magashule are related to a government contract to survey low-income houses built with asbestos. The contract, worth 225 million rand, or around $14.4 million, was awarded in 2014, while Mr. Magashule was still the head of the Free State, but six years on, many residents say their homes were never checked or fixes made.

Prosecutors allege that the companies awarded the contract outsourced the work at a fraction of the original cost, and subsequently funneled millions to accounts accessed by A.N.C. associates.

The lengthy charges ranged from minor kickbacks to plundering millions from the state coffers, implicating 13 people in total and five companies. Prosecutors allege that Mr. Magashule and other defendants stole public funds worth $13.7 million, in one case.

The prosecutors say Mr. Magashule also accepted $3,431 from a businessman to pay the school fees of his personal assistant, Moroadi Cholota, who has since turned witness for the state. Another allegation involves Mr. Magashule’s directing around $16,000 be paid to a travel company to fund a trip to Cuba for party members.

Mr. Magashule arrived in court on Friday without the leg shackles usually worn by defendants, as thousands of supporters rallied outside. Dressed in a sharp suit, he struck a relaxed pose, smiling and posing for court photographers.

With the party facing mounting public anger over the looting of funds meant for victims of the coronavirus pandemic by some party members and their allies, Mr. Ramaphosa has intensified anti-graft messaging in recent months. After winning the internal party election with promises of “a new dawn,” he has found his attempts to address the issue repeatedly undermined by allies of his predecessor.

The government estimates that at least 500 billion rand, or around $32 billion, was stolen through systemic political corruption during Mr. Zuma’s tenure. Mr. Zuma himself is facing charges of corruption relating to a 1999 arms deal he brokered when he was deputy president.

Mr. Magashule has been implicated in several past corruption scandals. Perhaps the highest-profile, the Vrede dairy farm case, saw $21 million intended as aid for aspiring Black farmers instead funneled to the A.N.C.’s political allies. The episode came to symbolize widespread corruption under Mr. Zuma’s tenure and accusations that the party had betrayed poor Black South Africans. No charges were ultimately filed against Mr. Magashule in that case.

Although the charges announced on Friday could take years to reach a conclusion, experts say they may represent a crossroads for the A.N.C.

“There are so many contradictory noises about who the real A.N.C. is — is it the cleanup A.N.C. or the inherently corrupt A.N.C.?” said Susan Booysen, an author and professor at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. “This ambiguity of who and what the A.N.C. is, that’s actually on the bench — and the A.N.C. continues to survive and do well because of this ambiguity.”

But the case has also drawn an emotional response from many members of the public. During his premiership, Mr. Magashule, a former anti-apartheid fighter, led a drive to recruit tens of thousands of new, younger members to the party, and he remains a popular figure.

Thousands of his supporters walked through the streets of Bloemfontein waving banners with messages of support on Friday. Many were dressed in the gold, black and green of the A.N.C. or in military fatigues, a nod to the apartheid resistance roots of the party.

Dancing and singing apartheid-era liberation songs, one group carried a giant cutout of Mr. Magashule’s head.

“You will never silence the roaring voice of the Black majority,” the message below read.





No.34 article:
Sophia Loren Makes Her Return to Film: ‘I’m a Perfectionist’

The star, now 86, was looking for a personal connection to a script. Then along came her director son and the Netflix drama “The Life Ahead.”

Whatever happened to Sophia Loren?

The question is prompted by “The Life Ahead,” the Netflix drama premiering Friday and starring the Italian great who once practically defined international glamour. As it happens, her first feature since a TV movie 10 years ago combines her passion for film with the other great passion of her life, her family. Loren, now 86, has long prioritized them over her acting career, but with the new drama, she combines both loves: The movie’s co-writer and director is Edoardo Ponti, the younger of her two sons.

In “The Life Ahead,” Loren’s third collaboration with Ponti, she plays an Italian Holocaust survivor known as Madame Rosa who takes in and eventually bonds with a Senegalese orphan, Momo (Ibrahima Gueye).

The film’s message of tolerance drew her back to acting, but that need for a personal connection to her work has also made her choosy about projects, she said, speaking in rusty English. And while Loren, an Academy Award winner, has continued to influence contemporary pop culture (“Zoo Be Zoo Be Zoo,” her take on the pop song “Zou Bisou”, was covered in “Mad Men,” a show she hadn’t seen), she said she didn’t feel pressured to chase every trend.

In a phone interview from her home in Geneva, Loren spoke about aging gracefully, taking direction from her son and some of her favorite roles. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.

You started making fewer movies by 1980, seven years after the birth of Edoardo and 12 years after the birth of Carlo Jr., his brother. Why did you slow down?

At the time, I asked myself, “What do you want from life, Sophia?” I said, “I want a nice family,” which I had. “I want two children,” which I had. “But I never see them.” So I said to myself, “From now on, maybe I will slow down a little bit.” But I didn’t slow down just a little bit: I was simply not working anymore. Not because I didn’t love working; I wanted to know more about my family, because I was often living at the studio. I really surprised myself by saying, “Sophia, it’s better that you stop acting for now, and catch up later.” I stopped making films for a long time but was very happy because I saw my children grow up, get married and have their own children. [Carlo Ponti, her husband of 50 years, died in 2007.]

What kind of scripts are you sent now?

I still get sent many scripts, but none spoke to me like “The Life Ahead” did. That’s why I didn’t work for almost 10 years. I wanted to find a role that really inspired and challenged me. Madame Rosa was that character, not only for her different and sometimes opposing emotions, but also for the message of tolerance, love and inclusion that the film expresses.

You sometimes describe yourself as a “perfectionist,” and since “The Life Ahead” is your third collaboration with Edoardo: Has it gotten easier to take direction from your son?

I’m a perfectionist, but so is he. Edoardo gives me security. He also never gives up until I give him my very best. He doesn’t settle for anything less than that, and he knows exactly what buttons to push to get something out of me. When Edoardo says “This is it” after we film a scene, I know that my performance is exactly what he was waiting for. That’s a wonderful feeling for an actress, because you are sure of what you’re doing.

What have directors like Vittorio De Sica taught you?

De Sica taught me to be true to myself and follow my instincts, not a trend. Easier said than done, but that’s important. I was 17 years old when I met De Sica. [She would work with him later in “The Gold of Naples,” 1954, the first of several collaborations.] To meet De Sica — he was a saint to me, the biggest director in the world. And he wanted to see me: “Ah, you are from Naples. I have something for you.” That’s how my film career started, with Vittorio De Sica.

How important has it been for you to work with filmmakers that you have a personal connection with, either in real life or from watching their films?

Well, that was not possible when I started making movies in America. Working with great American actors was a great school for me, but it was also a totally foreign experience. I worked with Cary Grant and Frank Sinatra [on “The Pride and the Passion,” 1957] when I was 22, still a kid. At the time, I saw the possibilities that came with working in English, even rotten English, because it was not my language. But the sound of talking and music is very dear to me, and I learned English right away. I had a wonderful time when I first made American films. I did “Desire Under the Elms,” “Houseboat&quot; — I don’t remember them all.

And now?

A role has to feel personal, because you do your best when you feel the role in your bones.

Do you follow contemporary film or TV at all?

I mostly watch the news on television, but I did particularly like “The Crown.”

In your memoir, “Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow,” you describe your acting career as a “remarkable season of Italian cinema that I had the privilege and the honor to experience firsthand.” Do contemporary Italian movies and filmmakers not interest you as much?

I don’t watch many films or series anymore, but I must say that the work of Matteo Garrone and Paolo Sorrentino is a pleasure to watch, and they both happen to be Neapolitan!

You did some voice acting in 2011, playing the voice of Mama Topolino for the Italian dub of “Cars 2.” What was that like?

I hadn’t seen many animated films, so I didn’t know what to expect from that role, but I must say that “Cars 2” is one of my grandchildren’s favorite films.

Do you consider yourself a religious or spiritual person?

Of course I am. I don’t go to church, but I do believe in God. I pray at home.

Is aging gracefully a conscious concern for you?

If you accept the aging process and live in the present, then you age gracefully.

You’ve said that you greatly admire Daniel Day-Lewis, whom you starred with in “Nine.” Now that he has retired, who are your favorite contemporary actors or actresses?

I still like him a lot, regardless of if he works again or not! He is a great actor and always admirable. I also love Meryl Streep! She is a great actress.

What advice would you give a young actress?

There is nothing that you can say. If you decide that you have to be an actress, because it’s something that you love, then you have to do what your mind teaches you, to put yourself in a situation where you only think about your life as an actress. Then you’ll see if you do or don’t get married. Life is not just one thing; it’s so many things, and sometimes so many things all together.

Do you rewatch your movies?

I tend to judge myself very harshly, so it’s best that I don’t watch my films straight away. Sometimes I do, out of curiosity, if one of my films is on TV, or maybe with my children, because maybe they haven’t seen films that I made a long time ago. And sometimes, so many years have passed that watching myself is like discovering a whole different person. That’s an interesting experience. I like it.

Are there performances that you’re especially proud of?

My role in “Two Women” means a great deal to me [she won an Oscar in 1962 for this De Sica film in which she played a struggling single mother during World War II], but also the role I played in “A Special Day” [as a homemaker who becomes more compassionate after she learns that her neighbor is gay]. It all depends on the story, and on the perfection of great directors like De Sica. I loved working with him, as well as the films I made with Marcello Mastroianni.

Do you want to continue acting?

If I like acting, why should I stop?


No.1 article:
Bristol police arrest 14 people at anti-lockdown protest

About 400 protesters gathered in the city on Saturday in defiance of police warnings

Fourteen people have been arrested at an anti-lockdown protest in Bristol, which went ahead despite police warnings. About 400 people gathered on the city’s College Green at midday on Saturday before marching through the city centre, in protest against lockdown measures.

The event took place in defiance of the national lockdown restrictions in England, which ban gatherings of more than two people, and warnings from police that the event was unlawful.

Many demonstrators carried placards calling for an end to the restrictions, with slogans such is “fear is the current control”. They also chanted “freedom”. One attendee was health worker Louise Hampton, who made headlines in August after she posted a video in which she appeared to suggest the coronavirus pandemic did not exist. Her employer, a major NHS provider, launched an investigation into her actions.

One of those addressing the crowd was Piers Corbyn, 73, the elder brother of former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Photographers showed him being led away from the protest by uniformed officers, but it was unclear whether he was arrested. The weather forecaster has previously attended other anti-lockdown protests.

Avon and Somerset police said they arrested a number of people who had been identified as leading the demonstration for breaching coronavirus regulations. One man was also arrested after an officer was assaulted, police said.

Prior to the event, police made it clear they would take action should the event proceed, giving protesters “firm warnings they will be breaking the law”.

“Officers have been engaging with Stand Up Bristol, the organisers of Saturday’s event, to explain the rules and to encourage them to postpone it,” police said in a statement on Thursday.

“By law, anyone organising or facilitating a gathering of more than 30 people is liable to a fixed penalty notice of £10,000 while those participating in a gathering of more than two people can be fined £200.”

Following the arrests on Saturday afternoon, Ch Insp Mark Runacres said that police “couldn’t legally or morally facilitate today’s event”. “While we understand the right to freedom of expression is an important part of our democracy, protests aren’t currently allowed under coronavirus regulations,” he said. “We warned the organisers repeatedly of the consequences should they press ahead with their plans, both in terms of the enforcement action we would take and the risk it presented in spreading Covid-19, but sadly they chose to ignore these.”

Ahead of the event, the mayor of Bristol, Marvin Rees, also urged people to “find safer ways to make their voices heard”. “Public health advice and government legislation in relation to Covid-19 lockdown are in place to protect individuals and communities,” he said. “Whilst I recognise the current lockdown is a difficult period for everyone we must all follow these rules if we are to see an end to restrictions.”

Merseyside police were also called to respond to a protest in Liverpool city centre where 27 people were arrested for public order offences.

A 32-year-old man was arrested for assaulting a police officer, while a woman was arrested on suspicion of attempted wounding and dangerous driving, the force said.

Supt Diane Pownall said:“The rules apply to everybody and it is unfair – and unlawful – when people choose to ignore them for their own selfish and misguided reasons. This is dangerous and irresponsible behaviour which could endanger the people of Liverpool who are working to ensure we can leave lockdown safely.”





No.2 article:
As Beijing tightens its grip, opposition groups fear that their support base is dwindling

Hong Kong’s battered pro-democracy opposition faces a bleak political future after a week that saw the entire bloc resign from the city’s legislature to protest at the ousting of four members for “unpatriotic” conduct under a new law.

Chinese authorities have signalled that those who walked out may not be able to stand in future elections on the grounds their protest was itself unpatriotic and therefore bars them from office, Sin Chung-kai, a member of the Democratic party executive board, told the broadcaster RTHK.

And if new candidates are willing to take the political risk of standing as pro-democratic, they are likely to face a shrinking voter base as people concerned about China’s tightening grip on Hong Kong seek to emigrate.

The British government has said up to a million people could take advantage of a special visa to resettle in the UK over the next five years.

“It’s the hardest time I’ve ever had since I started my life in politics 35 years ago,” Sin said. “I think a substantial chunk of these people [who vote for us] will choose to leave Hong Kong. Support for pro-democrats will be reduced.”

Hong Kong’s pro-democracy politicians have always operated in a system stacked against them, set up to minimise the weight of the popular vote and ensure pro-establishment authorities would always hold the balance of power.

Their influence was amplified by the right to freedom of speech and to protest, which was guaranteed under the terms of the 1997 handover from British colonial rule and protected by rule of law and an independent judiciary.

But this summer Beijing passed a sweeping national security law that has been used to target academics, journalists and protesters as well as politicians. Authorities insisted that it would not curtail the city’s core freedoms but the effect has been chilling.

“It’s really hard to see any path for a meaningful political opposition in Hong Kong,” said Louisa Lim, author of The People’s Republic of Amnesia: Tiananmen Revisited and a senior lecturer at the University of Melbourne. “The national security laws have the effect of criminalising certain forms of political expression and lobbying, and the latest expulsions of very moderate politicians are almost certainly intended to send the message that political opposition is futile and can even be dangerous.”

With the city’s legislature emptied of opposition, pro-Beijing authorities may now take steps to bring district councils, where pro-democrats won landslide majorities last year, under closer control, Lim believes.

Yet the politicians who walked out insist that they have not given up on their vision for Hong Kong’s future, even if they can no longer serve as lawmakers.

“We are only quitting the legislature at this point in time – we haven’t quit the democracy fight yet,” Claudia Mo, a journalist and activist, told the BBC.

A stark realism has been built into the protest movement almost since it began. Even when Hong Kong was convulsed by demonstrations last year, many of those in the streets said they had come out not because they hoped they could bring about change but because they wanted their resistance noted for posterity.

And the activist Joshua Wong insisted that the movement was not withering under pressure. “Although some pessimists may call it a ‘bottleneck’, we are still finding novel ideas and ways to continue the momentum,” he said on Twitter.

“Taking to the streets is not the only way of demonstrating people’s voices. Behind the cameras … people in Hong Kong also attend court hearings to support fellow protesters who are facing trials, and do frequent prison visits and write letters to protesters in detention.”





No.3 article:
Residents of Kalbajar district raze properties before deadline for disputed territory is returned to Azerbaijan

Villagers outside Nagorno-Karabakh set their homes on fire Saturday before fleeing to Armenia ahead of a weekend deadline that will see some disputed territory handed over to Azerbaijan as part of a peace agreement.

Residents of the Kalbajar district in Azerbaijan, which has been controlled by Armenian separatists for decades, began a mass exodus this week after it was announced that Azerbaijan would regain control on Sunday.

Fighting between the separatists backed by Armenian troops and the Azerbaijan army erupted over the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region in late September and raged for six weeks.

Armenia said Saturday that 2,317 of its fighters were killed in the clashes, an increase of nearly 1,000 deaths from its previous official toll. Azerbaijan has not revealed its military casualties.

But the Russian president Vladimir Putin said on Friday the number killed in the conflict was higher than 4,000 and that tens of thousands of people had been forced to flee their homes.

In the Kalbajar village of Charektar, on the border with the district of Martakert which will remain under Armenian control, at least six houses were on fire on Saturday morning, with thick plumes of smoke rising over the valley, according to an AFP journalist.

“This is my house, I can’t leave it to the Turks,” as Azerbaijanis are often called by Armenians, one resident said as he threw burning wooden planks and rags soaked in gasoline into an empty house.

“Everybody is going to burn down their house today ... we were given until midnight to leave,” he said.

“We also moved our parents’ graves, the Azerbaijanis will take great pleasure in desecrating our graves. It’s unbearable.”

On Friday at least 10 houses were burned in and around Charektar.

Kalbajar was almost exclusively populated by ethnic Azerbaijanis before they were expelled by Armenians in a 1990s war between the two countries following the break up of the Soviet Union, and a majority of the homes being burned previously belonged to Azerbaijanis.

Armenia’s government controversially subsidised the region’s settlement by ethnic Armenians.

The ex-Soviet rivals agreed to end hostilities earlier this week after previous efforts by Russia, France and the United States to get a ceasefire fell through.

A key part of the peace deal includes Armenia returning Kalbajar and the Aghdam district by 20 November, as well as the Lachin district by 1 December, all of which have been held by Armenians since the devastating 1990s war left 30,000 people dead.

After weeks of intense fighting, the two sides will maintain positions in the territories they currently hold – a significant gain for Azerbaijan, which has reclaimed around 15 to 20% of its lost territory including the key town of Shusha.

Russian peacekeepers began deploying to Nagorno-Karabakh on Wednesday as part of the terms of the accord and took control of a key transport artery connecting Armenia to the disputed territory.

Russian military officials said the mission consisting of nearly 2,000 troops would put in place 16 observation posts in mountainous Nagorno-Karabakh and along the Lachin corridor.

The Azerbaijani president Ilham Aliyev has accused Armenians of destroying “99% of the liberated territory” including hospitals, houses and monuments, adding that he wants Armenia to pay compensation.

Meanwhile in Armenia, anger has been mounting over the prime minister Nikol Pashinyan’s decision to cede swathes of territory.

The former head of Armenia’s national security service, Artur Vanetsyan, was arrested on Saturday on charges of plotting to kill Pashinyan and seize power.

Vanetsyan’s lawyers described the arrest as a “shameful persecution of opponents”.

Thousands of people converged on the streets of the capital Yerevan in demonstrations this week, while protesters stormed and ransacked government buildings, demanding Pashinyan’s resignation.

On Saturday, crowds gathered on Yerevan’s Liberty Square, where they lit candles in memory of soldiers killed in the fighting.

They then marched silently through the streets towards the Matenadaran museum of ancient manuscripts where priests held a requiem service.





No.4 article:
Vietnam orders 460,000 to evacuate ahead of Typhoon Vamco

Storm forecast to hit the country on Sunday morning with winds of up to 150 kph

Vietnamese authorities have ordered 460,000 people in the country’s central region to be ready for evacuation ahead of Typhoon Vamco, after the storm killed at least 42 people and left 20 others missing in the Philippines, state television reported.

The typhoon, which is forecast to hit Vietnam on Sunday morning, could pack winds of up to 150 kilometers (93 miles) per hour as it approaches the country’s already flood-battered central coast, according to the national weather agency.

Video aired by national television broadcaster VTV showed high waves slamming into Ly Son island, located about 25 kilometers (15 miles) from shore, on Saturday afternoon. About 1,000 people on the island who live by the sea were moved to shelters further inland.

Local authorities in other central provinces have been reinforcing sea dikes and evacuating elderly people and children to safe buildings to avoid casualties from the typhoon, VTV said. 

The country has also shut down five airports and suspended train operations throughout the region, the broadcaster reported.

In just over a month, Vietnam’s central region has seen seven tropical storms and typhoons, causing floods and landslides that killed 235 people and caused an estimated $740,000 in damage in several provinces. The rain from the storms has caused the worst flooding in the region in more than 30 years. 





No.5 article:
Nearly 100 coffins buried over 2,500 years ago found in Egypt

Mummies and up to 40 gilded statues found in a vast Pharaonic necropolis south of Cairo

 Egyptian antiquities officials have announced the discovery of at least 100 ancient coffins, some with mummies inside, and about 40 gilded statues in a vast Pharaonic necropolis south of Cairo.

Sealed sarcophagi and statues that were buried more than 2,500 years ago were displayed in a makeshift exhibit at the feet of the famed Step Pyramid of Djoser at Saqqara.

Archaeologists opened a coffin inside which was a well-preserved mummy wrapped in cloth. They also carried out X-raying visualising the structures of the ancient mummy, showing how the body had been preserved.

The tourism and antiquities minister, Khaled el-Anany, told a news conference that the items date back to the Ptolemaic dynasty that ruled Egypt for some 300 years from about 320BC to about 30BC , and the Late Period (664-332BC ). 

He said they would move the artefacts to at least three Cairo museums including the Grand Egyptian Museum that Egypt is building near the famed Giza Pyramids.

He said they would announce another discovery at the Saqqara necropolis later this year. The find at the famed necropolis is the latest in a series of archaeological discoveries in Egypt. Since September, antiquities authorities have revealed at least 140 sealed sarcophagi, most with mummies inside, in the same area of Saqqara.

Egyptian archaeologists found other “shafts full of coffins, well-gilded, well-painted, well-decorated”, Mostafa Waziri, secretary general of the Supreme Council of Antiquities, told reporters on Saturday.

The Saqqara site is part of the necropolis at Egypt’s ancient capital of Memphis which includes the Giza Pyramids, as well as smaller pyramids at Abu Sir, Dahshur and Abu Ruwaysh. The ruins of Memphis were designated a Unesco world heritage site in the 1970s.

Egypt frequently touts its archaeological discoveries in hopes of spurring the vital tourism industry that has been reeling from the political turmoil following the 2011 popular uprising that toppled longtime autocrat Hosni Mubarak.

The sector was also dealt a further blow this year by the coronavirus pandemic. 





No.6 article:
Ethiopia: leaders of Tigray region admit they attacked neighbouring Amhara

Fears fighting in country’s north could reopen long-running feuds and spread across national borders

Leaders of Tigray in Ethiopia’s north on Saturday claimed responsibility for rocket attacks on two airports in a nearby region and threatened to strike neighbouring Eritrea, raising concerns that the escalating conflict could spread across national borders.

The attacks – and threats of more – fuelled concern that a conflict Ethiopian prime minister Abiy Ahmed vowed would be quick and contained could instead snowball and destabilise the broader Horn of Africa region.

Abiy, the winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize, announced last week he had ordered military operations in Tigray, saying the move came in response to attacks on federal military camps by the regional ruling party, the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF).

Hundreds of people were reported to have been killed in the conflict in Africa’s second most populous country, some in a gruesome massacre documented by Amnesty International. Thousands have fled fighting and air strikes in Tigray, whose leaders Abiy accuses of seeking to destabilise the country. As of Friday evening, at least 21,000 Ethiopians had fled across the border into Sudan, according to Sudan’s refugee agency.

The strikes on airports took place on Friday night in two cities in Tigray’s neighbouring Amhara region, Bahir Dar and Gondar. The federal government acknowledged that “the airport areas have sustained damages”, while a doctor in Gondar said two soldiers were killed and up to 15 injured.

“Yesterday evening we’ve inflicted heavy damages on the military components of the Gondar and Bahir Dar airports,” Getachew Reda, a senior member of the TPLF, said. He reiterated claims by the TPLF that Eritrean soldiers were involved in the fighting, which Ethiopia denies. 

Getachew said the TPLF would not hesitate to strike locations inside Eritrea – Ethiopia’s traditional foe – including its capital, Asmara. “Whether they lift from Asmara or Bahir Dar to attack Tigray ... we will commit retaliatory measures. We will undertake missile attacks on selected targets in addition to the airports,” Getachew said. “We will conduct missile attacks to foil military movements in Massawa and Asmara,” he added.

Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a brutal border war from 1998-2000 that left tens of thousands dead.

Abiy won his Nobel in large part for taking steps to end the nearly two-decade stalemate that followed. His government said the TPLF needed to be disarmed before negotiations could begin, frustrating world leaders who were calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities.

Abiy on Friday declared the TPLF was in the “throes of death”, but the party vowed to fight on.

A communications blackout in the region made it difficult to assess competing claims about the fighting. Military officials vowed to keep the conflict contained in Tigray, and Abiy repeatedly promised a quick, decisive victory. 

But Amhara and Tigray are embroiled in long-running disputes over land along their shared border which analysts worry could draw Amhara into the conflict. Thousands of Amhara militiamen have headed towards Tigray to fight alongside federal forces, according to the region’s security officials.

Both Bahir Dar and Gondar were calm on Saturday morning, residents said. Describing the airport attacks, one resident of Bahir Dar told AFP there were “two heavy explosions around 10.50pm”. “After that there was gunfire for 15 minutes, and then it went quiet,” the resident said.

Humanitarian workers warn Tigray is facing a major crisis. Tigrayan leader Debretsion Gebremichael said hundreds of thousands were displaced within the region, along with the thousands who have already reached Sudan.

“We can’t reach the people we need to provide services to,” Catherine Sozi, the UN’s resident and humanitarian coordinator in Ethiopia, told AFP Friday, citing the communications blackout, road closures and shortages of water, fuel and cash. “We’re concerned that every hour, every day that the conflict continues, the most vulnerable people become even more vulnerable.”

The UN was lobbying Abiy’s government for full humanitarian access.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopian politics for nearly three decades before Abiy took office in 2018 on the back of several years of anti-government protests. Since then, the TPLF has complained of being sidelined and scapegoated for the country’s woes.

The feud grew more bitter after Tigray went ahead with its own elections in September – defying a nationwide ban on all polls imposed because of the coronavirus pandemic – and tried to brand Abiy an illegitimate ruler.





No.7 article:
Don’t put key workers at end of the Covid vaccine queue, warn UK unions

Non-medical NHS staff, transport workers and others are at high risk of death from coronavirus but are low-priority for jabs

Senior public health advisers and unions have warned that frontline workers could die unnecessarily from Covid-19 because they have not been prioritised in the government’s vaccine distribution plan.

The Department of Health’s interim plan for delivering a new vaccine, which could be approved by the end of the year and rolled out in 2021, prioritises the elderly along with health and care workers but doesn’t include essential workers in the most dangerous roles. There was also anger that the government has yet to commit to vaccinate thousands of people who work in hospitals such as cleaners, porters, security guards and patient transport drivers.

Steve Green, a hospital security guard in London, who is still struggling with the physical after-effects of contracting Covid, said outsourced staff should not be left out of an early vaccine rollout. “The doctors and nurses are my friends – of course they should be vaccinated first – but I thought, after last time, people had stopped seeing us as second class,” said Green, not his real name. “Just because there’s a different company on our payslips – we’re still NHS at heart – why don’t they think I need protecting?”

Lola McEvoy, GMB key worker organiser, said outsourced hospital workers needed to know if they were at the front of the queue for the vaccine, like directly employed NHS workers. “It is simply wrong if once again they are to face the same risk to their lives as their NHS colleagues, without the same protection. We are all willing the vaccine to be a success, but for this rollout to work our members must be vaccinated as a priority,” she said.

Professor Gabriel Scally, president of epidemiology and public health at the Royal Society of Medicine, urged the government to think again as lives were at stake. “We will have unnecessary deaths if we do not change course,” he said. “This vaccine is protective and we need to use it to protect those at most risk. While the risk comes predominately from age, you cannot ignore what we should have learned from the first wave: that there are some occupations that are at considerable risk.” 

He said officials should look at the approach adopted in New York, which prioritises public-facing staff such as transit workers and grocery workers for any vaccine.

Frontline male workers in low-paid manual jobs were found to be four times more likely to die in the first wave of the virus than men in professional occupations, according to an analysis of Covid deaths by the Office for National Statistics.

Security guards are especially at risk, with the highest death rate of all occupations. Cyril Hawken, a 59-year-old guard at a university hall of residence in south London, worries that he might be exposed to the virus while he waits for a vaccine to be made available to his age group. “Since the university has reopened, we have had several positive cases,” he said. “You have to be extra careful when you do your daily patrols.”

Hawken added that it was unfair that workers at high risk like him would have to wait for a vaccine. “They call us key workers but when it comes to getting a vaccine, they put us at the bottom of the ladder.”

Bus drivers are also at higher risk, with at least 30 known to have died from Covid in London since March. Joe Welch, a bus driver in north London, said he personally knew five of the drivers who had died from coronavirus. “It’s pretty grim – you have to explain to the families and deal with the effect on their colleagues,” he said.

Welch, 64, who has worked through both lockdowns, said drivers were worried about a second wave, and deserved to be protected by a vaccine. “Our guys have gone out there even though they were scared – it is only a fair reward for them to be higher up the scale,” he said.

The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, which drew up the plan for the government, said it had not yet decided whether to include outsourced hospital workers in the priority group for a vaccine. Professor Wei Shen Lim, the committee’s chair for Covid immunisation, said older people and health and social care workers would be prioritised. “This recommendation was made with the aim of preventing as many deaths as possible. The risk of death from Covid-19 increases exponentially with age. Frontline health and social care workers are essential to the work of the NHS in saving lives and are also at increased risk of exposure and transmitting the virus to vulnerable patients.”





No.8 article:
&#x27;Not the usual Diwali&#x27;: Indians urged to stay at home amid Covid surge

Festivities upended by pandemic as fears rise smog may worsen crisis

More than one billion Indians celebrated Diwali on Saturday amid twin concerns of a resurgence in coronavirus infections and rising air pollution that is enveloping the country’s north in a cloud of thick toxic smog.

Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, is typically celebrated by socialising and exchanging gifts with friends and family, and lighting oil lamps or candles to symbolise a victory of light over darkness. Fireworks are also a major part of the celebrations.

But this year, the pandemic is upending some of the celebrations in India, particularly in Delhi, the capital, which has experienced a renewed spike in coronavirus infections in recent weeks, recording more new cases than any other Indian state.

On Saturday, many temples across the country streamed prayer sessions online to avoid large gatherings. In Delhi, worried residents opted for low-key celebrations. Some even stayed at home and did not visit friends or relatives.

“It’s not the usual Diwali,” said Vishwas Malik, 47, a professor in Delhi. “The exchange of gifts is less and we have not interacted with people. We have not visited people’s homes because of the fear of the coronavirus.”

In an effort to encourage people to stay at home, Delhi’s chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, and some of his ministers held a prayer ceremony at a grand temple. The prayers were broadcast on television and social media.

Kejriwal said last week that the pandemic was spreading fast in the capital due to the rising air pollution. He appealed to people not to set off firecrackers on Diwali, in hopes of mitigating the harmful effect of toxic air on those who are more vulnerable during the pandemic. Firecrackers often cause spikes in Delhi’s notoriously bad pollution.

The link between air pollution and worsening Covid-19 cases remains mostly theoretical at the moment. But several researchers have said that in addition to factors such as mask wearing, social distancing, population density and temperature, dirty air should also be considered a key element in coronavirus outbreaks.

India has confirmed 8.7 million cases of the coronavirus, including 129,000 deaths. While it is second in the world in total cases behind the US, daily infections have been on the decline since the middle of September.

Shoppers in Delhi had been packing markets across the country, prompting concerns among health experts who warned that crowded celebrations could cause a virus resurgence that could overwhelm India’s healthcare system. But in the run-up to Diwali, messages encouraging people to remain at home during the festival whizzed around the city via WhatsApp.

“This Diwali is more about survival. It is about being grateful that we are still able to breathe and be alive for this day. Please stay home,” read one such message.

The prime minister, Narendra Modi, continued with his custom of celebrating Diwali with Indian soldiers, flying to a military post in western Rajasthan state where he distributed sweets among troops and took a tank ride.

“You may be on snow-capped mountains or in deserts, but my Diwali is complete only when I celebrate with you,” Modi said in his address to the troops.





No.9 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Call for recommendations from health bodies on how nutrient may prevent and treat virus

Vitamin D has moved a step closer to being used as a potential way to prevent and treat coronavirus after Matt Hancock asked government health advisers to produce new guidelines on its use.

The health secretary told the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) and Public Health England to create guidelines for the use of the “sunshine” nutrient two weeks ago, before it was reported that the government was planning to give four months worth of vitamin D supplements to more than 2 million vulnerable and elderly people, following the lead of Scotland.

In a statement, a spokesperson for Nice, which sets NHS clinical guidelines, told the Guardian: “Nice and PHE received a formal request to produce recommendations on vitamin D for prevention and treatment of Covid from the secretary of state for health and social care, Matt Hancock, on October 29.”

The move comes after the government began considering giving vitamin D supplements to elderly people and those who are shielding as the UK enters winter. There is growing concern that many people may have poorer vitamin D levels than usual as a result of staying indoors for longer periods during the pandemic.

Vitamin D’s effect on immune systems has long been debated among experts. A number of studies have suggested that low vitamin D levels are associated with a higher risk of death from coronavirus, and some believe sufficient levels of it can reduce tissue damage from lung infections.

Advice on vitamin D in the UK has focused on musculoskeletal health conditions, such as rickets. A paper in the journal BMJ Nutrition Prevention and Health last month said the professional view of vitamin D as medicine was jeopardising care home residents’ health and that a change was needed to view it as a key nutrient instead.

The Guardian understands discussions are continuing within the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) over whether to give vitamin D tablets to black and minority ethnic people in an attempt to address disproportionate deaths from Covid-19 in those populations. Similar conversations are under way on whether to provide supplements to obese people.

The higher the levels of melanin in the skin the lower the levels of vitamin D created, which is exacerbated in places with less sunlight, meaning people of colour in the UK may be at much greater risk of deficiency.

On Tuesday in the Commons, the Tory former minister David Davis hailed free supplements as a “low-cost, zero-risk, potentially highly effective action”. He highlighted a Spanish trial involving 76 patients with Covid-19 in which 50 were given a high dose of calcifediol, an activated form of vitamin D. Half of those who were not given it had to be placed in intensive care, and only one person who received it required ICU admission but was later released with no further complications. Two patients who did not receive calcifediol died.

Hancock said he could not confirm details, but was “working hard” on the issue. He was aware of the Spanish trial and was “looking at this very closely”.

It is unclear whether vitamin K, which is believed to aid the absorption of vitamin D, would also be provided with free vitamin D supplements to people in care homes or who have been shielding.

In June, Nice said there was no evidence to support taking vitamin D supplements to prevent Covid-19, following reviews. The Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), which is within Public Health England, reached similar conclusions.

callout-coronavirus

Since April, PHE has recommended all people take vitamin D daily, but only in low doses of 10 micrograms (400 IU) per day in autumn and winter. These guidelines are also due to be updated.

Meanwhile, trials ordered by the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre remain under way to evaluate the use of high-dose vitamin C in patients with community-acquired pneumonia caused by Covid-19.

A DHSC spokesperson said: “This is a new virus and we keep all strong evidence on treatments under review.”

PHE confirmed it had been approached by the DHSC but did not wish to comment.





No.10 article:
Deaths increase as states implement new social restrictions and president threatens not to deliver vaccines to New York

The US set yet another daily record for new coronavirus cases on Friday, topping 184,000, while Donald Trump promised imminent distribution of a vaccine – except to New York, which he threatened to leave out for political reasons – and the president-elect, Joe Biden, pleaded with Americans to follow basic mitigation measures.

According to Johns Hopkins University, 184,514 new cases were recorded on Friday, up from 153,496 on Thursday. More than 10.7 million cases have been recorded in total and more than 244,000 have died. Deaths are also increasing: 1,431 were reported on Friday, the highest toll in 10 days if more than a thousand less than the highest such toll, from April.

At the White House, in his first remarks since losing the election to Biden, Trump said he expected a vaccine developed by Pfizer to receive emergency use authorisation “extremely soon”, and to be available to the general population by April.

He also said the federal government would not deliver the vaccine to New York, because its governor, Andrew Cuomo, “doesn’t trust where the vaccine is coming from”. Trump and Cuomo have clashed frequently during the pandemic.

Cuomo told MSNBC: “None of what he said is true, surprise surprise. We’re all excited about the possibilities about a vaccine.”

Trump also took a shot at Pfizer, saying its statement that it was not part of Operation Warp Speed, the federal vaccine effort, was “an unfortunate misrepresentation”. Pfizer did not receive support for research or manufacturing, but has agreed to sell its vaccine to the federal government. A spokeswoman said the company was proud to be part of Operation Warp Speed “as a supplier of a potential Covid-19 vaccine”.

If Trump’s timeline for the vaccine holds, he will be out of power by the time it is distributed to the general population. Trump has not conceded defeat and is mounting legal challenges in battleground states. But he has little to no chance of success and Biden will be inaugurated as the 46th president in Washington on 20 January.

Preparing for government from Wilmington, Delaware, Biden has named his own Covid taskforce. On Friday one member, Dr Celine Grounder, alluded to delays in providing national security briefings to Biden caused by Trump’s refusal to concede when she told CNN the virus was now “essentially a national security threat [because] Americans are getting infected and sickened by coronavirus, dying from coronavirus, and how the economy is being impacted by the coronavirus”.

Shortly before Trump spoke, Biden issued a statement with a conspicuously presidential tone.

“The crisis does not respect dates on the calendar,” he said. “It is accelerating right now. I renew my call for every American, regardless of where they live or who they voted for, to step up and do their part on social distancing, hand-washing, and mask-wearing.”

With winter closing in, socialising moving indoors and case numbers reaching levels regularly warned of by Dr Anthony Fauci, a widely trusted expert with whom Trump has regularly clashed, states across the Republican midwest are struggling. Hospital resources are stretched and governors have appealed for help.

“It’s on fire,” Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio, told the Wall Street Journal. “We’ve never seen anything like this. Our spring surge and summer surge were nowhere like this.”

Another Republican, Doug Bergum of North Dakota, ordered a mask mandate and imposed business restrictions. In Nevada, the Democratic governor, Steve Sisolak, tested positive.

The governors of New Mexico and Oregon have ordered strict social limitations. Imposing a two-week stay-at-home order, Michelle Lujan Grisham, the Democratic governor of New Mexico, said: “We are in a life-or-death situation, and if we don’t act right now, we cannot preserve the lives, we can’t keep saving lives, and we will absolutely crush our current healthcare system and infrastructure.”

Oregon’s Governor Kate Brown, also a Democrat, said: “This situation is dangerous, and our hospitals have been sounding the alarm. I know this is hard, and we are weary. But we are trying to stop this ferocious virus from quickly spreading far and wide.”

In Idaho, Governor Brad Little, a Republican, has enlisted the state national guard to assist in pandemic response and slowed reopening plans.

On the east coast, Ned Lamont, the governor of Connecticut, entered quarantine after an aide tested positive. In New York, public schools could close on Monday while New York City’s courthouses, which may be the busiest in the US, are imposing restrictions on in-person proceedings, after positive tests were recorded among court employees.

Cuomo said he would meet with leaders of six north-eastern states, to figure out supplemental steps.

On the national stage, Trump said: “Ideally we won’t go to a lockdown. I will not go – this administration will not be going to a lockdown. Hopefully the – whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration will be.

“I guess time will tell. But I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown.”

Biden has promised to follow advice from scientists about new social restrictions, although he walked back an initial statement that he would go back into widespread lockdown if so advised. He supports a national mask mandate.

Several dozen US Secret Service agents have contracted the virus, probably as a result of staffing events at the White House and on the campaign trail at which mitigation measures were not enforced. Trump, members of his family, cabinet members and senior aides and top Republicans have tested positive. In October, the president spent three days in hospital.

One scientific model predicts more than 400,000 deaths by March. Two weeks ago, in an interview with the Washington Post, Fauci warned of a winter of more than 100,000 new cases a day and said the country was in for “a whole lot of hurt”. The US has now recorded more than 100,000 cases a day for 10 days running.





No.11 article:
Tropical Storm Iota may bring more damage to Caribbean after Eta

Storm may bring dangerous winds, storm surge and as much as 30in of rain to Nicaragua and Honduras

Tropical Storm Iota was brewing in the Caribbean early on Saturday, threatening a second tropical strike for Nicaragua and Honduras, countries recently ransacked by Eta, a category 4 hurricane.

Iota is already a record-setting system, the 30th named storm of this year’s extraordinary Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.

Eta was the 28th named storm of this year’s season, tying the 2005 record. On Saturday Theta, the 29th, was weakening over the far-eastern Atlantic Ocean and was expected to become a remnant low, forecasters said.

The US National Hurricane Center in Miami said Iota could bring dangerous winds, storm surge and as much as 30in of rain to Nicaragua and Honduras, approaching their coasts as early as Monday. The system formed on Friday afternoon.

Early on Saturday, the storm was located about 340 miles south-south-east of Kingston, Jamaica, and had maximum sustained winds of 40mph. There were no coastal warnings or watches. Iota was moving to the west-south-west at 5mph.

It could wreak more havoc in a region where people are still grappling with the aftermath of Eta. That system hit Nicaragua last week as a category 4 hurricane, killing at least 120 as torrential rains brought flash floods and landslides to parts of Central America and Mexico.

On Saturday morning, Guatemalan authorities said a mudslide buried 10 people in the state of Chiquimula near the border with Honduras. Emergency workers have rescued two people and recovered three corpses so far. Five people are still missing.

The mudslide follows last week’s partial collapse of a mountain on to the village of Queja, in the central Guatemalan region of Alta Verapaz, which killed and buried alive dozens of residents.

President Alejandro Giammattei expressed on Saturday his concern about the approach of Iota, saying he has ordered evacuations for areas expected to be affected.

“We are concerned about the area of Alta Verapaz and Quiché. We believe that they are the areas where we could have the greatest impact,” said Giammattei. “We hope God helps us.”

In Honduras, where Eta killed 64 people and damaged roads, bridges and crops, President Juan Orlando Hernández on Saturday urged people in the path of Iota to evacuate to the nearest shelters.

“Iota is going to put our lives and our economy at risk again,” he said.Residents of the community of Cruz de Valencia in north-western Honduras have begun evacuating.

“We have to get out, we have to save our lives,” said resident Erick Gomez, who said he only survived the flooding from the last hurricane by clinging to a tree to avoid being swept away by the rushing water.





No.12 article:
Next fortnight &#x27;crucial&#x27; in ensuring England Covid lockdown ends as planned

 Prof Susan Michie says vaccine hopes must not make Britons complacent

The next two weeks will be “absolutely crucial” in ensuring that England’s coronavirus lockdown ends as planned on 2 December, a government scientific adviser has said.

Prof Susan Michie, who is a member of the government’s Covid-19 behavioural science team, a subgroup of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), said the country was entering a “very challenging” fortnight.

She also said the development of an effective vaccine should not make people complacent about the spread of coronavirus in England. 

“I think the next two weeks is going to be absolutely crucial. Partly because of the weather, partly because I think the promise of a vaccine may be making people feel complacent,” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Saturday.

Michie said a vaccine was unlikely to be distributed until the end of the year, or beginning of 2021, meaning it would make no difference to the current second wave.

She urged members of the public not to rely on the promise of a vaccine and to follow the regulations in place, saying it would make Christmas celebrations more likely.

“Everybody has to really get all their resolve together to really pay attention to resisting any urges to break the rules on distancing, on visiting households; to pay attention to keeping indoor spaces ventilated, keeping surfaces and hands disinfected,” Michie said.

“Because that will maximise the chance that on 2 December, we’re in a position where we don’t have to continue the lockdown and, better still, be in a position where they can spend Christmas and winter holiday times with loved ones rather than being isolated.

“One thing that is quite hopeful, is if you look at the data for Wales, and for Northern Ireland, in both cases really severe restrictions actually have brought the transmissions down. Now whether that will continue is another question.”

Michie is not the only expert to call for caution in response to the news that Pfizer and BioNTech’s vaccine candidate is 90% effective in stopping people from falling ill.

Speaking at a press conference hosted following the announcement, the deputy chief medical officer for England, Prof Jonathan Van-Tam, urged the public: ”Please don’t relax”, adding, “we don’t know what this means yet for when we can get life back to normal”.

Boris Johnson also warned that we “can’t let our enthusiasm run away with us”, urging the public to continue to follow the regulations.

A further 27,301 cases of coronavirus were recorded across the UK on Friday. More than 24,000 of those were in England, which is currently under a second national lockdown.

Last week, the UK passed 50,000 coronavirus deaths, making it the fifth highest Covid toll in the world.





No.13 article:
2021 Lavazza calendar: the new humanity – in pictures

With the world feeling more distant than ever, photographers were this year called on to translate their vision of the new humanity into images seen through their own eyes. David LaChapelle and Steve McCurry are among those who contributed 





No.14 article:
Though waters have mostly receded since Wednesday, rescue teams continued to help people in places where waters remained high&nbsp;







No.15 article:
Communal worship ‘criminalised’ under lockdown, church leaders in England say

Christian leaders launch legal challenge against ban on services in England and Wales 

More than 100 Christian leaders have launched a legal challenge against the ban on communal worship in England under lockdown restrictions.

They claim worship has been “criminalised” and the ban has “inflicted a terrible human cost” on congregations for whom collective worship is a core element of their religious life.

The restrictions on public worship, they argue, breach article 9 of the European convention on human rights which protects the right to freedom of religion.

The claim for judicial review by 122 church leaders from different traditions is being supported by the Christian Legal Centre, an arm of the conservative evangelical organisation Christian Concern.

The ban on services of worship in England lasts until early December. In Wales, a similar ban was lifted at the end of a three-week “firebreak”, but could be reinstated.

In England, places of worship are closed, with exceptions for funerals, broadcast acts of worship, individual prayer, essential voluntary public services, formal childcare, and certain other activities. Gathering for worship or collective prayer is not allowed.

The claim says: “The English and Welsh governments have now introduced two successive sets of lockdown measures, which have completely prohibited and criminalised public communal worship, a core aspect of religious life for the claimants and their congregations.

“With these measures, the governments have inflicted a terrible human cost, without rigorous consideration of less onerous restrictions, and as part of a package which leaves places of worship open for secular activities.”

Pastor Ade Omooba, who is leading the legal challenge, said: “We have been left with no alternative but to pursue a judicial review on this crucial issue and at this significant moment for the freedom to worship in church in this country.”

The government must “recognise the vital importance of church ministry and the principle of church autonomy from the state”.

The ban on public worship has also been challenged by the leaders of the Church of England, the Catholic church and Orthodox Judaism, along with Muslim, Hindu, Sikh and Pentecostal representatives.

They wrote a joint letter to Boris Johnson earlier this month saying there was “no scientific justification for the wholesale suspension of public worship”.

Theresa May, the former prime minister, also raised concerns about the ban, suggesting in parliament that “making it illegal to conduct an act of public worship for the best of intentions sets a precedent that could be misused for a government in the future with the worst of intentions”.

Omooba said: “Never in our history have our churches closed – not during wars, plagues or famines. Instead we have been places of respite and hope.

“The government seems not to understand the very important and long-held constitutional position of the independence of church and civil government … The very last thing that should be closed is churches, and then only with their agreement in times of dire emergency for a very short time.”

Michael Nazir-Ali, the former Anglican bishop of Rochester, cited “ancient liberties of the church, which have been won through hard struggle over the course of our history. These liberties include freedom of belief, expression and worship. The principle of the freedom of worship needs to be maintained.”





No.16 article:
Rothschild descendant claims initial victory in legal battle with Vienna

Geoffrey Hoguet is suing Austrian authorities for control of trust set up by his ancestors, but seized by Nazis in 1938

A Rothschild descendant has claimed an initial victory in a legal battle with the city of Vienna over a medical trust set up by his ancestors, seized by Nazis and now controlled by the city.

Geoffrey Hoguet is suing Austrian authorities for control of the trust, which he claims has been hollowed out by town hall officials who have made themselves administrator and potential beneficiary of assets worth up to €110m (£98m).

The case is the latest chapter in Austria’s long, slow reckoning with one of the darkest chapters in its history, the persecution of its Jewish citizens after it came under Nazi rule, and the theft of their property and assets.

Now a court has backed Hoguet and his lawyers in their claim that the city of Vienna has a conflict of interest over the foundation’s finances, ruling that an independent figure, or “collision curator” must be appointed to represent the charity in legal proceedings over a 2017 change to its statutes.

“The decision is an important first stage win in our legal battle with the city of Vienna to correct the course of Nazi-era injustices endured until today,” Hoguet said. “In doing so the court recognises the improprieties conducted by the city of Vienna since the Nazi usurpation of that foundation in 1938.”

He called on Viennese politicians to “reinstate an independent governing board for the foundation and return the Nazi booty to serve its purpose as dedicated by my family”.

Hoguet, an American, only learned in 2018 that his great-grandfather had set up a foundation for mental health and neurological conditions more than a century earlier, naming it in memory of his childless brother Nathaniel.

The Nathaniel Freiherr von Rothschild foundation flourished in the city known as the birthplace of modern psychiatry, and home of Sigmund Freud, with board members at one point including a Nobel laureate.

But the large endowment and the clinics were seized by Nazi authorities in 1938, under the official “aryanisation” process for looting Jewish property and other assets, and the Rothschild family were forced to flee for their lives.

The charity was reconstituted in 1956, after Austria was re-established as a sovereign state, but city authorities made themselves administrators.

In the intervening years the foundation has become little more than a real estate shell organisation, leasing its one remaining clinic to a public hospital for a nominal sum, and with the Rothschild family name erased from the site, Hoguet says.

“I went back in February and walked around the campus [of the hospital], and there wasn’t one reference to the family’s name,” said Hoguet.

Hoguet says that erasure is part of a disturbing pattern that has seen references to the Rothschilds scrubbed from a city once shaped by their philanthropy and investment.

Palaces, a hospital and even a train station bearing the Rothschild name were pulled down after the second world war, and the sites renamed. Only in 2016 was a new urban tribute paid, when Rothschild Square was inaugurated outside a bank with family links.

Hoguet would like to re-establish the now obscure charity as a recognised centre for research and treatment, as its founder intended: “My dream really would be, once the governance is restored, to turn it once again into a leading beacon for neurological and mental healthcare.”

He would not benefit financially, but had a particular personal interest in the field because he was living with Parkinson’s disease, he said.

Authorities for the city of Vienna have previously argued that the 1956 restoration of the foundation was done in accordance with the original wishes of Nathaniel von Rothschild.Hannes Jarolim, the lawyer in charge of handling Vienna’s response to the claims, told the Financial Times that Hoguet’s arguments were“not tenable” and the fate of the foundation had been settled “decades ago” and “completely in line with [its] original purpose”.

But Hoguet and his lawyers say that when the city re-established the foundation, it ignored rules which required a majority of board members to be nominated by the Rothschild family themselves.

“It would not have been difficult to reach out to the family, whether in Paris or in London, to find out who of the Austrian branch of the family were still around,” he said.

Hoguet said some relatives returned to Vienna frequently: “My grandmother Clarice was coming back and spending a good part of the year in Austria as soon as permitted.”.

In 2002 one of two valuable buildings owned by the foundation, the Maria-Theresien-Schlössel, was sold by the charity’s administrators to the city of Vienna, at a price Hoguet alleges is below market value for prime real estate.

The foundation’s remaining clinic, set in extensive grounds in another part of the city, is leased for a nominal sum to a state hospital. But city authorities have applied for a permit to divide its ground into plots and fell trees, which Hoguet fears is a prelude to another sale.

In 2017 the city changed the foundation statutes to make itself the ultimate beneficiary of foundation assets, if the charity is wound up. Those changes are one of the things Hoguet is challenging in court.

“Under Austrian law, there is a strict prohibition on self-dealing and on representing both sides to a transaction without an independent, informed consent. The decision by the district court recognises that such a self-dealing situation is present,” said Wulf Gordian Hauser, a lawyer for Hoguet, who added that other dealings between the city and the foundation should also be challenged.

“In essence, any contract which the foundation has done after its nominal resurrection in 1956 had the City of Vienna dealing with itself as a counterpart. All these transactions should be reviewed and challenged.”





No.17 article:
News of potentially effective vaccine helps persuade politicians to keep policies to prevent lay offs and bankruptcies

The timing could hardly have been better. In the week that the daily number of US Covid-19 cases relentlessly hit new records and just days after England followed much of the rest of Europe into lockdown, Pfizer and BioNTech announced their vaccine was 90% effective against the virus.

The news came too late to prevent a new hit to growth in the final three months of 2020. Nor will it be enough to prevent the central banks in the US and the eurozone from piling in with fresh stimulus packages in the weeks to come.

But hopes of a treatment for the virus that has caused such damage to the global economy this year does boost confidence that better times are ahead in 2021.

Moreover, it – and further announcements to come – increase the chance that there will be upward revisions to growth forecasts in the months ahead. Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease expert, says he expects more good news to come from Moderna’s stage 3 trial within the next few days.

Financial markets were certainly in no doubt that there was finally light at the end of the long Covid-19 tunnel. Shares in companies most affected by social distancing – airlines, cinemas, brewers, hotels – all soared in a powerful vaccine rally.

Hande Küçük, deputy director of macroeconomic modelling and forecasting at the National Institute for Economic and Social Research (NIESR), said: “The economic impact of of Covid-19 not only comes from lockdowns and restrictions but from voluntary social distancing. If vaccines reduce the fear of being infected it might have a big impact on the recovery.”

Küçük added that NIESR’s forecast of 5.9% UK growth in 2021 had assumed that vaccines would become available from the middle of next year, but she said there was now a possibility of “a quicker recovery in the first and second quarters.”

Ben May, global economy analyst at Oxford Economics, said the vaccine was a “major step forward” which should help limit the long-term scarring to the economy by persuading policymakers to continue with plans that would prevent lay offs and bankruptcies.

While not yet ready to revise his forecasts, May said he didn’t rule out the possibility of doing so eventually. “There would need to be evidence that vaccines were going to be in circulation very quickly and give governments the ability to reduce restrictions very quickly.”

He added that the stock market reaction was understandable. “News on vaccines provides hope to people in these sectors that if they are patient they will have a viable business model again.”

New data released last week showed that, after declining in the first and second quarters of 2020, the UK economy grew by a record 15.5% between July and September. But the pace of activity slowed even before the latest restrictions to combat the virus were imposed. Most forecasts expect the economy to contract again in the fourth quarter and to shrink by around 11% in 2020 overall.

Thomas Pugh, UK economist at Capital Economics, said the outlook for next year was now more encouraging: “We have pencilled in a [growth] hit of 8% in November. That would result in a 3.5% contraction in the fourth quarter. But the recent news of a potentially effective vaccine means that the outlook beyond the next six months could be much rosier than we have previously anticipated.”

Policymakers tended to be more cautious, in part because their own growth forecasts have already assumed that the efforts to find a vaccine would be successful before too long.

In its half-yearly World Economic Outlook in October, the International Monetary Fund said it expected global growth of 5.2% next year on the assumption that social distancing would continue into 2021 but would then fade over time as vaccine coverage expanded.

However, the IMF added that a speedier recovery was possible. “Progress with vaccines and treatments, as well as changes in the workplace and by consumers to reduce transmission, may allow activity to return more rapidly to pre-pandemic levels than currently projected, without triggering repeated waves of infection.”

Speaking after the Pfizer-BioNTech announcement, Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said it was “just too soon” to assess the impact of the vaccine but that more US economic support was still needed. Christine Lagarde, the president of the European Central Bank, also downplayed the possibility of an immediate upward revision to eurozone forecasts.

Andrew Bailey, the governor of the Bank of England, told a Financial Times event that the vaccine news was encouraging and chimed with Threadneedle Street’s view that there would be a gradual improvement in the economy as treatments for the virus improved.

But he also urged caution: “I think we have to be cautious because there’s still quite a way to go in trialling [a vaccine], in production and distribution, and putting all this into action.” 





No.18 article:
Sydney Anglican priest forced to resign because his marriage broke down

Fr Dave Smith, famous for liberal views and boxing exploits, loses job and home because of ‘male headship’ doctrine of Sydney diocese

One of Sydney’s most high-profile Anglican priests has been forced to resign from his church or face the sack after his marriage broke down.

Fr David Smith – a two-time Australian of the Year nominee who is popularly known as “Fighting Father Dave” due to his boxing exploits – told Guardian Australia he faced total loss of income by the end of the year and possible homelessness after the Sydney diocese learned his marriage had ended.

The bishop of the southern region, Michael Stead, did not dispute that Smith’s 30-year career as rector of Holy Trinity in Dulwich Hill was over because he and his wife had split.

But he said Smith had “voluntarily” resigned “at my strong encouragement” because his position was “untenable”.

Smith was given the title of assistant minister at Dulwich Hill since his marriage broke down and was put on long service leave. He will be unemployed at the end of the year and has been told he is free to apply for assistant minister roles elsewhere.

Under the Sydney doctrine, not shared almost anywhere else in the Anglican church in Australia, men who are divorced or separated with no chance of reconciliation are not permitted to serve as head of a parish – a rector.

The conservative evangelical diocese’s controversial doctrine of “male headship” holds that men are the undisputed heads of their households, wives must “submit” to their husbands, and only men can lead in church.

The doctrine also means Sydney is one of only four dioceses in the country that continues to ban the ordination of women priests.

Smith said his voluntary resignation was the equivalent of “having a gun pointed at my head and told to pull the trigger”.

“And if you don’t pull the trigger, we’ll do it for you.”

Stead said Smith’s position had become untenable on biblical grounds, citing 1 Timothy 3:5: “If anyone does not know how to manage his own family, how can he take care of God’s church?”

Smith said Stead gave him a six-month ultimatum to “get his wife back” or buy time by providing proof she was the offending partner.

“I mean how unChristian is that?” said the father of four, who has been ordered to vacate the diocese-owned home where he lives with one primary school age child by March.

Stead said this was not an ultimatum but an expression of hope that Smith might reconcile with his wife, making his resignation unnecessary.

“We have this policy that if the marriage has irrevocably broken down, I would have still had to ask him to step down whether or not he could establish he was not at fault,” Stead said.

The policy was essential because divorced or separated male clergy were a “destabilising” influence on a congregation.

“Any alternative inevitably leads to questions and speculations about faithfulness and unfaithfulness,” Stead said.

An ABC investigation in 2018 highlighted the incidence of domestic violence within conservative churches, including in Sydney.

It forced the Sydney Anglican diocese to create what is believed to be the world’s first fund to support and compensate clergy wives who had been forced to flee the family home because of abuse at the hands of their husbands.

“The Sydney diocese knows it has a domestic violence problem,” Smith said.

“I have seen some unhappy marriages where the wife stays because she knows the consequences of leaving – costing her husband’s job, the family home ... the whole family loses everything.”

There is no suggestion domestic violence or infidelity played a role in Smith’s marriage breakdown.

The 58-year-old priest – who was depicted in a 10m mural in boxing mode overlooking Martin Place in the city centre for five years until recently – said he had decided to go public because he was due to launch a book in two weeks and it was inevitable the circumstances of his private life would emerge.

“You could say I’ve been a thorn in the side [of the Sydney church] for years, but until now I was largely untouchable,” he said, referring to his high public profile largely due to his decades-long work with substance-addicted youth and as founder of Father Dave’s Old School Boxing Academy, set up to help young people at risk in the inner west.

He was nominated for Australian of the Year in 2004 and 2009, twice awarded Marrickville Citizen of the Year, and in 2012 he broke the world record for the most continuous rounds of boxing to raise money for charity.

However, he concedes his outspokenness has not earned him any friends in high ecclesiastic places. He has given strong support to the Palestinian cause, promoted ecumenical activities with the local Muslim community, and was a lone voice against the Sydney diocese’s decision to contribute $1m to the “no” vote in the same-sex marriage plebiscite.

In his 2003 book Sex, the Ring and the Eucharist, Smith wrote candidly about his clerical colleagues’ “glib middle-class satisfaction” with Sydney’s status quo and at the annual clergy conference he described his fellow attendees as “ageing priests with pot bellies” and their “well-groomed wives”.

He said his marriage breakdown was the excuse the diocese had been waiting for “for years”.

His latest book – Christians and Muslims Can Be Friends – carries endorsements from the Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, and Australia’s first female Muslim federal MP, Anne Aly.

At his book launch on 28 November, Smith will enter the ring for friendly bouts with professional boxers Anthony Mundine, Billy Dib and Solomon Haumono.

He has not ruled out a return to professional boxing.

“The truth is, getting hit in the face by your opponent is nothing compared to the pain of losing your partner and your job,” he said. “On the contrary, it’s almost cathartic.”





No.19 article:
Israeli agents in Iran kill al-Qaida&#x27;s top lieutenant – report

Abu Muhammad al-Masri was gunned down in Tehran more than three months ago, says New York Times

Al-Qaida’s second-in-command was killed in Iran in August by Israeli operatives acting at the behest of the United States, the New York Times has reported, citing intelligence officials.

Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, who went by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri, was gunned down by two men on a motorcycle in Tehran, the NYT reported. He was accused of helping to mastermind the 1998 bombings of two US embassies in Africa.

Masri was seen as a likely successor to Ayman al-Zawahri, believed to be al-Qaida’s current leader.

It was unclear what, if any, role the United States had in the killing of the Egyptian-born militant on 7 August, the anniversary of the embassy attacks, the NYT said, adding that US authorities had been tracking Masri and other al-Qaida operatives in Iran for years.

Iran denied the report. Iran’s foreign ministry said in a statement that there were no al Qaeda “terrorists” on Iranian soil.

“From time to time, Washington and Tel Aviv try to tie Iran to such groups by lying and leaking false information to the media in order to avoid responsibility for the criminal activities of this group and other terrorist groups in the region,” the ministry said.

A US official, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, declined to confirm any of the details in the NYT story or say whether there was any US involvement. The White House national security council did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Masri was killed along with his daughter, the widow of Osama bin Laden’s son Hamza bin Laden, the Times reported.

The al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden, who orchestrated the 9/11 attacks on the United States, was killed in a US raid in Pakistan in 2011.

Masri had been in Iran’s “custody” since 2003 but had been living freely in an upscale suburb of Tehran since 2015, the NYT cited unnamed US intelligence officials as saying.

US counterterrorism officials believed Iran, also a US enemy, may have let him live there to conduct operations against US targets, the NYT said.

It was not immediately known what, if any, impact Masri’s death has had on al-Qaida’s activities. Even as it has lost senior leaders in the nearly two decades since the attacks on New York and Washington, it has maintained active affiliates from the Middle East to Afghanistan and West Africa.

With Reuters





No.20 article:
Italy registers 550 more deaths; record daily cases in Germany, Sweden and Russia – as it happened

Italy also registers 40,000 new infections; Germany records 23,542 new cases; Russia reports its worst day for new infections; Sweden’s hits daily record. This blog is now closed

We are closing this coronavirus blog now. Follow our continuing Covid-19 coverage here.

NSW has recorded no new cases of Covid-19 caught in the state, but there has been four positive tests reported on Saturday from people currently in hotel quarantine.

NSW Health is also urging people in the Rouse Hill area to get tested if they show even the mildest of symptoms after virus traces were detected in sewage from a catchment where 120,000 people live. 

NSW Health said in a Tweeted statement:

Fragments of the virus that causes COVID-19 have been detected in samples taken on Wednesday 11 November from the sewerage system that drains parts of Quakers Hill, Castle Hill, Annangrove, Kellyville, Box Hill, Kenthurst, Glenhaven, The Ponds, Rouse Hill, North Kellyville, Kellyville Ridge, Beaumont Hills, Stanhope Gardens, Baulkham Hills, Glenwood, Bella Vista, Parklea, Acacia Gardens and Norwest.

Health authorities in the Australian state of NSW have released a list of three key “venues of concern” in Auckland as they check arrivals from New Zealand since 5 November.

Authorities have messaged 455 people who arrived from New Zealand since 5 November after a “mystery case” emerged in Auckland. 

A fuller list of locations has been released by NZ health authorities.

News agency Reuters is reporting the latest case numbers from Brazil, one of the world’s worst-hit countries.

The country’s health ministry has reported 29,070 new Covid-19 cases and a further 456 deaths from the disease.

Only India and the United States have seen more case numbers than Brazil, and only the US has had more deaths.

According to Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus resource center, Brazil has seen 5,781,582 cases of the disease and 164,281 deaths. 

Western Australia’s premier, Mark McGowan, said on Friday his state was ready to take the “next big step forward” in its handling of the coronavirus.

On Saturday morning, the state took that step with the hard border closure lifted.

The ABC reported earlier this morning that 150 people had already crossed the border since midnight, with police taking two to three minutes to check and clear each vehicle at border checks.

Arrivals from NSW and Victoria will still need to self-quarantine for 14 days but other domestic arrivals are free to enter.

The prime minister, Scott Morrison, announced yesterday that the current plan was to have all state and territory borders open for Christmas, except WA.

Here’s confirmation from Victorian health authorities of another 24 hours passed with no new cases of covid-19 and no deaths.

Hi, Graham Readfearn here in Australia taking over our rolling live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic. 

Donald Trump is speaking about the pandemic at the White House, promising the US public a widespread vaccine by April. You can follow it on our US blog:

Joe Biden’s win in the US election is raising hopes in Latin America that a war over medical supplies at the start of the COVID-19 outbreak will not be repeated once vaccines are approved for use, Chile’s health minister told Reuters.

Enrique Paris said he believed Biden’s leadership would allow for countries to present a more “united” front against the pandemic, avoiding the commercial battles by nations including the United States to secure ventilators, masks and personal protective equipment seen earlier this year.

“There was a trade war in which those who could pay more got more and those who could take things out of or even rupture distribution chains did so,” Paris told Reuter.

“It was horrible and I hope it doesn’t happen again,” Paris said. “I believe that Mr Biden has another vision of what is diplomacy and global understanding between countries.”

Canadians have time to contain the surging second wave of Covid-19 by Christmas if they act now, the prime minister, Justin Trudeau, said on Friday. 

Reuters reports that he urged provincial leaders for the second time this week to impose more health restrictions. “What we do in the coming days and weeks will determine what we get to do at Christmas,” Trudeau said at a news conference.In Canada, new cases averaged 4,300 per day during the past week, with around 55 deaths a day.

If the coronavirus continues to spread at this pace, Canada will be recording more than 10,000 new cases per day by early December, the chief medical officer Theresa Tam said. Some Canadian hospitals are already filling up, she added.

Apart from the Atlantic provinces, where borders are closed to visitors from elsewhere in Canada and abroad, cases are rising across the country.

“Provinces need to make the right decisions around bringing in rules that will limit close contacts, limit the spread of Covid-19,” Trudeau said, three days after first urging premiers, who are in charge of health restrictions, to act.

Saskatchewan on Friday restricted alcohol sales after 10 pm and widened mask mandates to cover indoor public spaces in all communities with more than 5,000 residents. The province also said larger high schools should consider reducing in-class learning.

People in the hardest-hit areas of Ontario should stay home and avoid all social gatherings, Premier Doug Ford said in a news conference. However, restaurants and gyms remain open to a limited number of patrons even in those hotspots. More health restrictions may come next week, Ford said.

England will face a resurgence of coronavirus cases before Christmas if the country returns to the tiering restrictions in place last month when the latest lockdown is over, government science advisers have warned.

The regions of Italy that include the cities of Naples and Florence were declared coronavirus red zones on Friday, Associated Press reports, in the latest sign of the dire condition of Italian hospitals struggling with a surge of new admissions.

The director of the National Health Institute, Gianni Rezza, said the stricter measures were justified by a “worrisome increase in hospitalisations” as Italy’s rate of new confirmed cases reached 650 per 100,000 people. Confirmed cases hit a daily pandemic high of nearly 41,000 and 550 people died of the virus in 24 hours, bringing the country’s known death toll to 44,139. Italy has reported a total of more than 1.1m virus cases.

Naples hospitals made headlines this week when a video that went viral showed an elderly man lying dead on the floor of an emergency room bathroom. The video, shot with a smartphone inside Antonio Cardarelli hospital also showed what appears to be an overcrowded emergency area with patients lying on stretchers close together and left without medical assistance.

In the red zones people cannot leave their homes apart from for work, health or emergency reasons.

Sweden remains steadfast in its strategy of voluntary measures and no lockdowns, the architect of its unorthodox Covid-19 response said on Friday, as the country experienced a record number of daily infections, Reuters reports.

More than 6,000 Swedes have died in the country of 10 million people. Its soft-touch approach to combating the virus has drawn worldwide attention - and harsh domestic criticism from some - and there has been a surge in the number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths in recent weeks.

At 5,990, the number of new cases reported on Friday was the highest since the start of the pandemic. A further 42 deaths were also recorded, the most for around three months. The strategy, however, will not change.

“No, we will keep on this path,” the chief epidemiologist, Anders Tegnell, told Reuters in a telephone interview on Friday. “This is how we work in Sweden. We have big understanding for this and a huge adherence to the rules.”

In contrast to many other countries, Sweden has kept schools, restaurants and other businesses open throughout the pandemic. Instead, it has focused on voluntary measures aimed at promoting social distancing and good hygiene, such as working from home if possible, avoiding public transport and crowded indoor activities.

While Sweden’s death rate per capita is lower than in countries such as Spain and Britain, it is more than 10 times higher than neighbouring Norway and almost five times higher than in Denmark.

Here’s a summary of the most recent developments:

More than 130 US Secret Service officers assigned to protect Trump have been sidelined by Covid-19, the Washington Post has reported.

A US government source familiar with the situation confirmed that numerous Secret Service officers had gone into quarantine but did not provide a specific number. Not all those in quarantine had tested positive, the source said.

The paper did not say how many officers had tested positive for the virus versus those who had to isolate because of close contact with an infected coworker. It said about 10% of the core security team had been sidelined.

Secret Service representatives declined to give a tally of officers affected. The White House spokesman Judd Deere referred questions to the Secret Service, but told the Post separately that the administration took every case seriously.








