No.1 article:
U.S. Troops Are Packing Up, Ready or Not

The Pentagon has announced a reduction down to 2,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan before President-elect Biden takes office. Afghan officials fear the cuts will encourage the Taliban to keep fighting.

KANDAHAR, Afghanistan — Had it not been for dozens of U.S. airstrikes in recent weeks, the southern hub city Kandahar would be under siege, after Taliban fighters threatened to overrun several surrounding districts, security officials say.

Now with President Trump’s orders to cut American forces in Afghanistan by roughly half — from 4,500 to 2,500 — Kandahar’s fate, and the fate of the Afghan security forces spread across the country, are once more in question.

“If it were not for the air support of U.S. forces, the Taliban would be sitting inside Kandahar city now,” Col. Zabiullah Ghorzang, an Afghan Army regimental commander in Kandahar Province, said Tuesday.

The Pentagon on Tuesday formally announced those troop cuts, stopping short of the full withdrawal by Christmas that Mr. Trump had mused about publicly and ensuring that the war in Afghanistan will transition to a fourth American administration over almost 20 years of conflict.

Mr. Trump’s withdrawal will leave President-elect Joseph R. Biden, without his consultation, the smallest force in Afghanistan envisioned by American counterterrorism planners. But in pushing for the reduction before he leaves office, Mr. Trump has faced resistance from some prominent members of his own party in Congress — and on Tuesday from rankled NATO allies as well.

The reduction, though expected by Afghan officials, is coming at a desperate time for Afghanistan: Peace negotiations in Qatar between the Afghan government and the insurgency are stalled, Taliban offensives are surging near important cities in the south and north, and morale has been plunging among the Afghan government forces as they take heavy casualties, officials say.

Afghan officials have long seen the American military presence as a crucial incentive for the Taliban to keep its promises and choose negotiation over endless war. Now, many in Afghanistan — including, government officials fear, the Taliban — are taking Mr. Trump’s quickened drawdown as the clearest signal yet that the United States is leaving Afghanistan no matter what the insurgency does.

The withdrawal plan has ramifications beyond Afghanistan, including troop cutbacks in the Middle East and Africa.

In Iraq, the American troop presence, which is seen as a hedge against a resurgence of the Islamic State and against  powerful Iranian influence, has already come down to about 3,500 troops this year. Under the new orders, Pentagon officials say it will come down to around 2,500 in January. Unlike in Afghanistan, the cuts have not been a source of alarm: Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi has described the cuts as being agreed to and desirable for both sides.

Almost immediately after the Pentagon announced the withdrawal on Tuesday, mortar shells or rockets were fired in several places in Baghdad, including near the U.S. Embassy. Officials said that the attacks killed a child and left five civilians wounded.

In Somalia, the withdrawal plan — no formal numbers were announced on Tuesday — is coming as the Shabab, a terrorist group linked to Al Qaeda, continues to intensify its attacks on both military and civilian targets in an effort to topple the country’s Western-backed government. More than 650 American troops — many of them from the Special Operations forces — are there to train Somalian forces and conduct operations against the Shabab.

Officials and analysts in Somalia say the sudden reduction or removal of those forces would be a propaganda victory for the Shabab at a critical time, and would also leave stated American goals for the troop presence unfinished.

“In terms of improving local capacity and degrading Al Shabab — none of that has really been accomplished,” said Omar Mahmood, a senior Somalia analyst at the International Crisis Group.

For the Afghan government, the tumult surrounding the rapid U.S. withdrawal is only underscoring its reliance on Western support. Local police and national forces have been either pinned down or in retreat in many areas recently, rattled by the prospect of diminishing American support, Afghan officials say. And no one here expects a Biden administration to send troops back.

October was the deadliest month for civilians since September 2019, according to data compiled by The New York Times. More than 200 civilians were killed.

“The Afghan Army isn’t strong enough to stand against terrorists just by themselves, and it is obvious that they need others’ support,” said Atiqullah Amarkhel, a retired Afghan Army general and military analyst. The Taliban “are stronger than in the past, and if the Americans leave and don’t support and assist the Afghan Army they won’t resist long, and the Taliban will take over. This is what scares me the most.”

The Afghan security forces are still well-supplied, and funded by an influx of foreign cash, meaning a further American withdrawal would not automatically entail a collapse. Afghan military officials say they have defensive plans of their own if the United States continues to withdraw and the peace talks drag on without progress.

Speaking to Parliament on Tuesday, acting Defense Minister Asadullah Khalid tried to assure lawmakers that Afghans should not worry about the withdrawal of U.S. forces.

“We are not concerned, and we are ready to defend Afghanistan independently,” Mr. Khalid said.

But that has not stopped some Afghan officials from fearing another civil war if the country splits along ethnic and regional lines while under pressure of the Taliban’s attacks.

Metra Mehran, a member of the Feminine Perspectives Campaign in Afghanistan, worried that the Americans were leaving without getting enough assurances from the Taliban and without a clear path forward for the peace talks.

“Considering that the negotiations haven’t reached any agreement and security has been worsened, I am afraid it can even lead to another civil war,” Ms. Mehran said. “It is not a wise decision to leave without any concrete agreement and a feasible agenda beyond it.”

At the Pentagon, acting Defense Secretary Christopher C. Miller told reporters that the troop cuts in Afghanistan — he called them “repositioning” — would not adversely affect the safety of remaining American soldiers, diplomats or intelligence officers on the ground, and “does not equate to a change in U.S. policy or objectives.”

The cuts, with a deadline a few days before Mr. Biden is to be inaugurated in January, will leave behind a force that military planners see as a critical counterterrorism force to serve as a hedge against Al Qaeda and Islamic State loyalists and to try to keep neighboring countries from meddling more forcefully in Afghanistan. Mr. Biden has referred to that kind of force in his own sparing mentions of a future Afghan strategy.

Mr. Miller, a former Army Green Beret who fought in Afghanistan and Iraq, said he spent Tuesday morning calling NATO allies and other partners to notify them of Mr. Trump’s new orders and to reassure them of America’s commitment to the nearly two-decade-old mission in Afghanistan.

“We went in together, we adjust together, and, when the time is right, we will leave together,” Mr. Miller said.

But NATO’s secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, appeared to express frustration with the sped-up American withdrawal. In a sharply worded statement Tuesday, he warned that “the price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high.”

“Even with further U.S. reductions, NATO will continue its mission to train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces,” Mr. Stoltenberg said.

Most notably, Italian and German forces, which rely on American transport and protection for their missions in northern and western Afghanistan, would have a decision about whether to scale back their operations as well.

Afghan officials involved in the peace negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar insisted that withdrawal or not, they would still be prioritizing the negotiation process.

“We are in negotiations — we are not thinking about the withdrawal of foreign forces, said Ghulam Farooq Majrooh, a member of Parliament and part of the Afghan government’s negotiating team with the Taliban. “What is important for us is how to reach an agreement and a cease-fire and peace.”

In the Feb. 29 agreement between the United States and the Taliban that started the troop withdrawal, the Taliban agreed to publicly separate itself from Al Qaeda — which was under the Taliban government’s protection when it launched the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks — and to deny terrorist groups the use of Afghan territory as a haven.

But the troop withdrawal has continued even though last month a Qaeda leader was killed in a Taliban-controlled district in the country’s east, and there has been no evidence of any decisive severing of ties between the groups.

But for Hayatullah, 33, a street vendor in Kandahar, peace agreements and diplomatic forays to end the war meant little. All he can see is that the security in his city was worsening.

“The city condition is bad, people are worried, the fighting is ongoing in several directions of the city and the districts are falling,” said Hayatullah, who like many Afghans uses just one name. “We are afraid that Americans leaving will only intensify it.”





No.2 article:
Corporations and Foreign Nations Pivot to Lobby Biden

Lobbyists and consultants are highlighting their ties to the incoming president, which have become lucrative.

WASHINGTON — The morning after Election Day, as votes were still being counted, diplomats from more than 20 foreign governments logged into a videoconference to hear Joe Lockhart, a veteran Democratic operative, provide what his consulting firm’s invitation described as “insider tips on how to make YOUR agenda happen in the aftermath of an election.”

Over the next few days, as Joseph R. Biden Jr. accumulated the votes necessary to become the next president, representatives from countries and companies around the world began scrambling to secure representation from well-connected Democrats like Mr. Lockhart.

Manny Ortiz, a Democratic lobbyist with ties to the party’s congressional leaders, said he received a string of inquiries from representatives for foreign governments — including Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey — that had previously focused on strengthening ties to President Trump.

And Heather Podesta, a leading Democratic lobbyist, said her firm recently signed a slew of new clients from the energy, consumer goods, technology and defense industries that were preparing for the expected Biden win.

While Mr. Biden has taken steps to demonstrate his distance from lobbyists, his presidency is being welcomed in Washington’s influence industry.

Lobbyists and other advisers who help clients navigate Washington are quietly highlighting ties to Mr. Biden and his team in pitches to prospective clients, while firms and interest groups that lack such ties are scrambling to secure them. Such connections are plentiful because aides and colleagues of Mr. Biden’s have been cycling between government and the influence industry going back to his 36 years representing Delaware in the Senate and his eight years as vice president.

It is a far cry from four years ago, when Mr. Trump swept into town with few connections to established gatekeepers and lobbyists.

Instead of fulfilling his campaign promise to “drain the swamp” of special interests, Mr. Trump empowered a powerful, but relatively small, new class of lobbyists with connections to him or his inner circle. They reaped tens of millions of dollars in lobbying fees from companies, interest groups and foreign governments seeking to navigate an administration that revolved around the whims of one man, while defying established norms about policymaking and governance.

The pending change in administrations has disrupted a profitable business for K Street’s Trump whisperers, with one, David Urban, leaving a lobbying firm in September that he had built into a powerhouse, and others eying partnerships or mergers with Democratic or bipartisan firms.

In some ways, the shift is a return to normal for the influence industry, in which the most successful firms were those with deep policy expertise and connections on both sides of the aisle — a likely selling point if the Biden administration is faced with a Republican Senate.

A number of firms have been recruiting lobbyists with Biden connections.

The day before the election, the lobbying giant Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck announced that it had added Mark Pryor, a former Democratic senator from Arkansas, who had served alongside Mr. Biden in the Senate.

On Thursday, the Washington lobbying firm Capitol Counsel revealed it was merging with a boutique public affairs firm owned by Robert Diamond. Mr. Diamond ran Mr. Biden’s campaign in New York State and previously served in the Obama administration, which he said in a news release gave him “a deep understanding of the current climate in Washington.”

In an interview, Mr. Diamond called his Biden connection “an obvious selling point.” He added, though, that “relationships are one thing, but there is real expertise that needs to come back to Washington and tackle these problems.”

Perhaps the most abrupt shift is in foreign lobbying, as governments around the world face the need to build connections to an administration whose policies and approach to diplomacy will be very different from Mr. Trump’s.

Over the past four years, staying on Washington’s good side no longer required as much attention to building coalitions in Congress or slow but steady work with cabinet agencies.

Foreign governments believed they could offset human rights concerns or even possible sanctions, tariffs and prosecutions by buttering up Mr. Trump or hiring lobbyists who could arrange access to him or his team at the president’s club in Florida, Mar-a-Lago, the Trump International Hotel in Washington or other places disconnected from the normal diplomatic channels.

Now, countries that hired lobbyists because of their ties to Mr. Trump and his small inner circle are recalibrating.

Mr. Ortiz, a longtime Democratic lobbyist with close ties to Senator Bob Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has been preparing proposals for a half-dozen nations he said have reached out to him since the election.

“It is just nuts,” he said of the surge in interest from foreign governments since the election.

Another lobbyist who works with Democrats said he had conversations in recent days with representatives from the governments of Egypt, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates — all of whom, he said, were in a panicked rush to make inroads in the Biden administration.

The lobbyist met last week in Washington with a member of the Turkish Parliament who has been described as a back-channel between President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the United States, and who was in town to discuss a dispute between the two governments over a missile defense system.

Just last month, the parliamentarian, Ali Ihsan Arslan, had entered into an agreement with Avenue Strategies, a lobbying firm founded by former aides to Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign, which had signed a range of domestic and foreign clients over the past few years.

Avenue Strategies had agreed to help Mr. Arslan “develop better relations with key policymakers and thinkers here in Washington,” according to a lobbying filing.

But last week, Mr. Arslan privately expressed concerns about whether his relationships in Washington would be effective in reaching Mr. Biden’s team, according to the lobbyist, who said the parliamentarian was interested in connecting with lobbyists or others with access to Mr. Biden’s team.

Similar shifts are underway across Washington.

The Egyptian government benefited from a warm relationship between President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and Mr. Trump, who had reportedly called Mr. Sisi “my favorite dictator.” After Mr. Trump’s loss, prominent politicians and former government officials called on the government to quickly change course.

Amr Moussa, a former foreign minister, said in an interview on a popular talk show in Egypt that the government should “lobby, lobby, lobby at U.S. institutions, whether congressional, governmental, or civil society.”

A couple of days after the presidential race was called for Mr. Biden, the Egyptian government set the stage to do just that, entering into a $65,000-per-month contract with a bipartisan team from Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. The team will be led by Nadeam Elshami, a Democrat who was chief of staff to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and Ed Royce, a Republican who was a California congressman.

Mr. Lockhart, who served as White House press secretary during the Clinton administration, joined a firm this summer called Rational 360, which was founded by another Clinton administration alumnus with ties to Mr. Biden’s team, Patrick Dorton.

“I decided to lean into this a little bit in the middle of the campaign, and I didn’t know whether Biden was going to win or lose,” Mr. Lockhart said, adding it was “a happy coincidence” that Mr. Biden won and conceding the result may bolster demand for his services. 

Mr. Lockhart’s firm has teamed up with Robert Stryk, a lobbyist who has taken on foreign clients from whom many lobbyists kept their distance. Mr. Stryk prospered during the Trump era, and as Mr. Biden opened a lead over Mr. Trump in pre-election polls, several Democratic operatives approached Mr. Stryk about teaming up on foreign work, he said.

Mr. Stryk worked with Rational 360 to help organize at least three teleconference briefings for Mr. Lockhart and Rational 360 with foreign officials. The briefing on the morning after the election drew representatives of 22 governments, from Austria to Uganda.

The first collaboration for Mr. Lockhart’s firm and Mr. Stryk — a representation of the government of El Salvador — began late last month. Mr. Stryk’s firm, which changed its name this year to Stryk Global Diplomacy, had been representing the country’s intelligence service under a $75,000-per-month contract that started in August. On his recommendation, the country’s presidential administration signed a $65,000-per-month contract with Rational 360 last month.

One open question is how far Mr. Biden will go to follow through on a proposal he made in October 2019 to prohibit foreign governments from hiring outside lobbyists. “If a foreign government wants to share its views with the United States or to influence its decision-making, it should do so through regular diplomatic channels,” Mr. Biden said in a statement.

He could prohibit his appointees from meeting with lobbyists hired by foreign governments. But it would require an act by Congress — which is extremely unlikely — to actually ban governments from hiring lobbying firms.

It is not just foreign governments that are shopping for new representation in Washington.

Ms. Podesta, who runs a lobbying firm called Invariant with dozens of corporate clients, including Apple and Yelp, said she had seen a surge in interest in her Democratic-leaning firm, signing up new clients in recent weeks in advance of an expected Biden win. 

“The real shift will come in December,” she said. “It takes a while for Fortune 500 companies to make these decisions.”

Others  well positioned to profit in the Biden era include the lobbying firm owned by Jeff Ricchetti, the brother of Mr. Biden’s campaign chairman and incoming White House counselor, Steve Ricchetti, and a firm co-founded by Jeffrey Peck, who worked on the Senate Judiciary Committee under Mr. Biden and served as treasurer of the Biden Foundation.

Mr. Peck deregistered as a lobbyist early this year, but the firm that bears his name continues to do a brisk lobbying business, adding clients like the International Franchise Association in the months before the election.

The Biden administration is also expected to generate new business for firms with connections to Mr. Biden or his team that help clients get their way in Washington without formally registering to lobby — including WestExec Advisors and Albright Stonebridge Group, as well as Beacon Global Strategies. Beacon Global, which has represented Raytheon and Citi among other clients, was co-founded by Jeremy Bash, a former Obama Defense Department official who has worked closely with Mr. Biden’s newly named White House chief of staff, Ron Klain.

Precision Strategies, the self-described “integrated strategy and marketing agency” co-founded by Mr. Biden’s campaign manager and incoming deputy White House chief of staff, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, was retained starting in August to do public relations work by the American Investment Council, a lobbying group representing private equity firms.

One of the most prominent of these firms is SKDK, which has provided communications and fund-raising advice to corporate, political and foreign clients, including the Biden campaign, a super PAC started by the former New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and an Israeli spyware firm. (SKDK has registered under lobby laws in the past, but it says that was for public affairs consulting and that it does not lobby.)

Anita Dunn, one of SKDK’s top executives, served as a senior adviser to Mr. Biden’s campaign. The firm’s website has been updated to prominently feature a photograph of Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris — above announcements promoting Ms. Dunn’s return to the firm. In a statement, the firm’s chief executive, Josh Isay, praised “the role that so many people from SKDK played in the Biden-Harris victory.”





No.3 article:
Biden Wants to Rejoin Iran Nuclear Deal, but It Won’t Be Easy

President Trump is applying more sanctions on Iran that would be hard to reverse. Tehran, facing elections in June, has its own demands.

BRUSSELS — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has promised to move quickly to rejoin the nuclear deal with Iran so long as Iran also comes back into compliance. But that vow is easier said than done.

While Mr. Biden’s pledge pleased the deal’s other signatories, who were angry that President Trump withdrew from it two years ago, returning to the way things were may be impossible, complicated by both Iranian and American politics.

President Trump, even as a lame duck, is moving quickly to increase American sanctions against Iran and sell advanced weapons to its regional enemies, policies that would be difficult for a new president to reverse.

Last week, he asked his advisers for options to launch a military strike against Iran but appears to have been talked out of it. His aides argued that an attack could quickly lead to a larger war.

Iran, where President Hassan Rouhani faces strong opposition from conservatives in elections set for June 2021, is expected to demand a high price to return to the deal, including the immediate lifting of the punishing sanctions imposed by the Trump administration and billions of dollars in compensation for them.

Those are demands that Mr. Biden is highly unlikely to meet — especially given strong congressional opposition.

Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, has tried to pass on to Mr. Biden’s advisers through intermediaries Tehran’s insistence that the United States return to the Iran deal unconditionally before any talks resume, according to Iranian diplomats.

The diplomats say that Iran is not interested in a temporary freeze and will not stop enriching uranium or reduce its large stockpile in the meantime. They said that Iran would return to full compliance with the deal when the United States does.

Advisers to Mr. Biden do not confirm receiving any messages from Iran and say they will only deal with the issue after the inauguration.

Iran has some leverage. When Mr. Trump took office, Iran had roughly 102 kilograms, or about 225 pounds, of enriched uranium, whose production was limited by the 2015 agreement. After the United States withdrew, Iran declared it was no longer bound by the agreement and resumed enriching uranium at higher levels.

The International Atomic Energy Agency said last week that Iran now had more than 2,440 kilograms, which is more than eight times the limit set by the 2015 nuclear deal. The “breakout” time for Iran to possibly make a nuclear weapon — an ambition it denies — is now considerably shorter than a year.

During the campaign, Mr. Biden called Mr. Trump’s decision to abandon the deal “reckless,” and said it ended up isolating the United States, not Iran.

“I will offer Tehran a credible path back to diplomacy,” Mr. Biden wrote in a September op-ed for CNN. “If Iran returns to strict compliance with the nuclear deal, the United States would rejoin the agreement as a starting point for follow-on negotiations.”

A week ago, after Mr. Biden’s victory, Mr. Rouhani welcomed the initiative, calling it “an opportunity” for the United States “to compensate for its previous mistakes and return to the path of adherence to international commitments.”

The choice of the word “compensate” was not accidental, said Robert Einhorn, a nuclear arms-control negotiator now at the Brookings Institution. Iran says it wants Washington to pay for the billions of dollars in economic losses it incurred when Mr. Trump pulled the United States out of the Iran deal in 2018 and reinstituted sanctions that it had lifted.

Since then, Mr. Trump has piled on more sanctions. This maximum pressure campaign, as the administration has called it, devastated Iran’s economy but failed to push Iran back to the negotiating table or to curtail its involvement in Iraq, Syria or Lebanon.

The administration is also trying to further limit Iran’s support for proxy militias in those countries. It is selling more sophisticated weapons to the Arab monarchies in the Persian Gulf — countries that see Iran as an enemy and have their own regional ambitions — and accelerating the transfer of F-35 fighter jets to the United Arab Emirates.

Some think Mr. Trump will take more kinetic measures, including further sabotage and cyberattacks on Iran’s nuclear or missile programs or even military action, which Israel, Egypt and the Gulf allies would most likely support.

“I don’t think the administration is finished on the Iran issue,” said Mark Dubowitz, chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a longstanding supporter of a tough policy on Iran. “I think people are going to run hard for the next three months against Iran, knowing that after January there could be a very different Iran policy in place.”

Iranian negotiators know that the United States would never provide financial compensation, Mr. Einhorn said. “But they may stake out a tough negotiating position, especially given the dynamics of their upcoming election.” He suggested that Iran would demand not just the removal of the nuclear-related sanctions, but also those imposed for human rights violations, ballistic missile development and support for terrorist groups, which a Biden administration would find politically and technically difficult to do.

Short of a quick re-entry into the nuclear deal, Mr. Einhorn said, the parties should work toward an interim agreement, in which Iran would roll back a meaningful part of its current nuclear buildup in exchange for partial sanctions relief — especially giving Iran access to some of its oil revenues now blocked in overseas bank accounts. Iran might welcome such an interim arrangement if it gave the economy a quick boost, especially before the mid-June elections.

But given the complications of the American transition of power, with the requirements for security clearances and Senate confirmation already slowed by Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede defeat and cooperate with Mr. Biden, top officials might not be in place very soon. The practical window between inauguration on Jan. 20 and June is likely to be only two or three months, which argues for a rapidly constructed “back channel” between Washington and Tehran after Mr. Biden takes office.

Despite Mr. Trump’s pressure campaign, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has kept the door open to an American return, refusing to completely abandon the nuclear deal, said Ellie Geranmayeh, an Iran expert with the European Council on Foreign Relations.

Iranians opposed to the initial deal argue that the United States has proved it cannot be trusted, and Iran rejected any negotiations with Mr. Trump. But Ayatollah Khamenei provided Mr. Rouhani “the green light, the political space to make these messages to a Biden administration” about Iran’s desire for Washington to return to the deal, Ms. Geranmayeh said.

At the same time, she noted, Mr. Rouhani’s hard-line opponents will not want him “to get this win before the elections in June, and they will look to jam this effort as the Republicans will try to jam Biden’s,” she said. Mr. Biden could quickly lift a number of sanctions tied to Iran’s nuclear activities, including approving more waivers allowing Iran to sell oil. He could ease travel restrictions on Iranian citizens, increase humanitarian trade by easing banking impediments and lift sanctions on some key officials, like Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, the main nuclear negotiator.

But sanctions instituted under the category of counterterrorism and human rights, like those against the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, would be harder to void, especially since many Democrats also support them. But Ms. Geranmayeh said that Iran would insist that the United States lift the sanction against the Central Bank of Iran, accused of financing designated terrorist groups, so that it can once again use the global banking system.

If the Iran deal can be reconstituted, Iran has said it is open to talks on other issues, especially regional concerns around Iraq and Syria. But Iran has so far refused to put on the table its missile program, which is already under separate American and United Nations sanctions.

The key, as with all major policies in Iran, is Ayatollah Khamenei, now 81. He regards America as a doomed country in “political, civil and moral decline.” He went along with the nuclear deal because it promised significant economic benefits from the lifting of sanctions, and now apparently regards his skepticism about the United States as confirmed by Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from the pact.

But with the change in American leadership, he again sees the possibility of easing the economic straitjacket that renewed American sanctions have imposed.

“Despite Khamenei’s hubris, a Biden presidency presents both an opportunity and a challenge for Tehran,” Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment wrote. “The opportunity is a chance to improve the country’s moribund economy; the challenge is that Tehran will no longer be able to effectively use President Donald Trump as a pretext or distraction for its domestic repression, economic failures and regional aggression.”





No.4 article:
Recession With a Difference: Women Face Special Burden

Hit hard by job losses and the pandemic’s effect on schooling and child care, American women face short-term difficulties and long-term repercussions.

For millions of working women, the coronavirus pandemic has delivered a rare and ruinous one-two-three punch.

First, the parts of the economy that were smacked hardest and earliest by job losses were ones where women dominate — restaurants, retail businesses and health care.

Then a second wave began taking out local and state government jobs, another area where women outnumber men.

The third blow has, for many, been the knockout: the closing of child care centers and the shift to remote schooling. That has saddled working mothers, much more than fathers, with overwhelming household responsibilities.

“We’ve never seen this before,” said Betsey Stevenson, a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan and the mother of a second grader and a sixth grader. Recessions usually start by gutting the manufacturing and construction industries, where men hold most of the jobs, she said.

The impact on the economic and social landscape is both immediate and enduring.

The triple punch is not just pushing women out of jobs they held, but also preventing many from seeking new ones. For an individual, it could limit prospects and earnings over a lifetime. Across a nation, it could stunt growth, robbing the economy of educated, experienced and dedicated workers.

Inequality in the home — in terms of household and child care responsibilities — influences inequality in the workplace, Misty L. Heggeness, a principal economist at the Census Bureau, concluded in a working paper on the pandemic’s impact for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Without a more comprehensive system of support, she said, “mothers will forever be vulnerable to career scarring during any major crisis like this pandemic.”

The latest jobs report from the Labor Department showed that some of the damage was reversed last month as the service industry revived, nudging down the jobless rate for women to 6.5 percent, slightly below men’s. But there were still 4.5 million fewer women employed in October than there were a year ago, compared with 4.1 million men.

And according to the Census Bureau, a third of the working women 25 to 44 years old who are unemployed said the reason was child care demands. Only 12 percent of unemployed men cited those demands.

Laci Oyler has felt that pressure. Her husband, employed by a large printing company, was already working from home when the pandemic shuttered day care and schools in Milwaukee. But after two days of taking care of their two young sons, “he said, ‘Absolutely no way,’” Ms. Oyler explained. So she cut her weekly hours as a mental health counselor for Alverno College, a small Catholic institution, to five from 32.

In August, when she learned that public schools would continue to offer only online classes for the fall, Ms. Oyler decided she had little choice but to take an unpaid leave.

This month, she decided to resign.

“Work is so much more than what you’re taking home as payment,” Ms. Oyler said. “But when you look at that bottom line of risk versus reward, it doesn’t seem worth it,” she added, referring to the cost of child care combined with the possibility of coronavirus infection for her or her children.

As a licensed professional, Ms. Oyler does not expect to have difficulty returning to the work force when she is ready. But for most working women, dropping out to take care of children or other family members exacts a sizable toll, several studies have shown. Rejoining is hard, and if women do, they generally earn less and have less security. And the longer someone is out of work, the tougher it is to get back in.

Claudia Goldin, an economics professor at Harvard, said this was the first recession where the economy was so intertwined with the network of child care.

“During the Great Depression, no one cared about the care sector,” she said. “Women weren’t in the labor force, and they weren’t supposed to be.”

One reason that Congress started giving financial assistance to poor households headed by women in the 1930s, under a program originally titled Aid to Dependent Children, was so they could stay home with their children and not compete with men for jobs, Ms. Goldin said.

Only during World War II, when women were urgently needed in factories and offices to replace men who were in the military, did the government establish a far-reaching federally subsidized network of nurseries and child care centers in nearly every state. Once the war ended, so did the support.

“You cannot have a contented mother working in a war factory if she is worrying about her children, and you cannot have children running wild in the streets without a bad effect on the coming generations,” Senator Carl Hayden, an Arizona Democrat, testified in 1943.

Women make up roughly half of the country’s work force. They range from entry-level to professional, they live in urban, suburban and rural areas, and they often care for toddlers and teenagers. But the burdens of the pandemic-induced recession have fallen most heavily on low-income and minority women and single mothers.

Members of these overlapping groups often have the most unpredictable schedules, and the fewest benefits, and are least able to afford child care. They fill most of the essential jobs that cannot be done from home and, therefore, carry the most risk for exposure to the virus. At the same time, they make up a disproportionate share of the service industries that have lost the most jobs. The jobless rate is 9.2 percent for Black women and 9 percent for Hispanic women.

When the pandemic caused housecleaning jobs to dry up, Andrea Poe was able to find cleaning work at a resort in Orange Beach, Ala., about a 45-minute drive from Pensacola, Fla., where she and her 14-year-old daughter, Cheyenne Poe, had moved in with an older daughter, her fiancé and their five children.

The families were behind in the rent and threatened with eviction when Hurricane Sally ripped through the coast in September. To escape the floods, they piled into two cars, drove to Biloxi, Miss., and spent five nights in a Walmart parking lot.

Now Ms. Poe and Cheyenne, who has turned 15, are in Peoria, Ariz., living in a room in her mother’s trailer.

She said she was applying for jobs every day, so far without luck. And the bills keep coming. Ms. Poe has missed two consecutive loan payments on her car and worries that it will be repossessed.

“I’m just hoping my unemployment checks come through so my car doesn’t get taken away,” she said. “If I lose my car, I’ll never be able to get a job.”

Women with more resources are in a better position, but they struggle in other ways.

When the pandemic ripped through Seattle and compelled Kenna Smith, 37, to work from home, she initially saw one upside — a chance to spend more time with her 3-year-old son.

“At first, I thought I’d just focus on my child,” said Ms. Smith, who had just started a branding and design company, Wildforth Creative. “It was fun for a while, but then the stress was intense.”

Like many families who were worried about the risk of infection or short of money and space, Ms. Smith and her husband let their son’s nanny go. Her husband, project manager for a general contractor, worked out of their bedroom.

“I’m not sure why it totally fell on me,” Ms. Smith said of child care. “I’m out in the living room, dining room area with a whole bunch of toys strewn about, with my laptop, trying to run my business.

“I was wanting to work and wanting my business to succeed so badly,” she said. “I didn’t realize. …” She paused, interrupted by a voice: “Mommy, I want some applesauce.”

The couple recently decided to hire a part-time nanny, concluding that despite the expense, it was the only way both could keep working. (Ms. Smith’s sister is also helping out.)

From 2015 until the pandemic, women’s increasing participation in the work force was a primary driver of the economy’s expansion, said Ms. Stevenson, the Michigan economist. “It’s why the economy grew the way it did, why employers could keep hiring month after month,” she said.

Since February, women’s participation in the labor force has been falling, with the biggest decreases among women without college degrees who have children.

Changes forced on women by the pandemic elicit a mixture of anxiety and hope.

Many women worry that the changes will sharply narrow women’s choices and push them unwillingly into the unpaid role of full-time homemaker.

And the impact could stretch over generations, paring women’s retirement savings, and reducing future earnings of children now in low-income households.

“We are creating inequality 20 years down the line that is even greater than we have today,” said Ms. Stevenson, who was a member of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. “This is how inequality begets inequality.”

Yet there is also the possibility that the mounting pressures could create momentum to complete the unfinished project of fully integrating women into the work force by providing a system of family support — like affordable child care and paid parental and sick leave.

“I think we’re really at a crossroads,” said Julie Kashen, director for women’s economic justice at the Century Foundation and one of the authors of a new report on the pandemic and working women. “We’ve never built a workplace that worked for people with caregiving responsibilities.”





No.5 article:
The Vaccines Will Probably Work. Making Them Fast Will Be the Hard Part.

Front-runners in the coronavirus vaccine race won’t make nearly as many doses this year as were predicted, but they may kick into high gear next year.

The promising news that not just one but two coronavirus vaccines were more than 90 percent effective in early results has buoyed hopes that an end to the pandemic is in sight.

But even if the vaccines are authorized soon by federal regulators — the companies developing them have said they expect to apply soon — only a sliver of the American public will be able to get one by the end of the year. The two companies, Pfizer and Moderna, have estimated they will have 45 million doses, or enough to vaccinate 22.5 million Americans, by January.

Industry analysts and company executives are optimistic that hundreds of millions of doses will be made by next spring. But the companies — backed with billions of dollars in federal money — will have to overcome hurdles they’ve encountered in the early days of making vaccines. Moderna’s and Pfizer’s vaccines use new technology that has never been approved for widespread use. They are ramping up into the millions for the first time. Other challenges include promptly securing raw vaccine ingredients and mastering the art of creating consistent, high-quality batches.

“The biology of scaling manufacturing is a very temperamental activity, and there were many, many different attempts over the months until we cracked it,” said Paul Mango, deputy chief of staff for policy at the Department of Health and Human Services.

 Operation Warp Speed — the federal effort to accelerate vaccine development — set as a goal producing 300 million doses this year, but fell far short of that, reflecting just how difficult and unpredictable the manufacturing process has been. 

“If that was an aspiration — of 300 million by the end of the year — I would say that was the biggest challenge that we had,” Mr. Mango said.

Pfizer said this summer that it expected to make 100 million doses by year’s end, but has now said it can produce only half that goal. 

The more realistic timelines for manufacturing the vaccines are no surprise to those who closely follow the industry, even as these remarkable scientific and pharmaceutical feats have shattered speed records for vaccine development. 

“They always used the same four words: ‘in a perfect world,’” said Steve Brozak, the president and managing director of WBB Securities in Cranford, N.J., who invests in and researches companies that focus on infectious diseases.

“That world does not exist,” Mr. Brozak said. “Instead, we have a Covid world.”

One of the main goals of Operation Warp Speed was to work with drug companies to manufacture the vaccines even before clinical trials were completed, so that millions of doses would be ready to go if a vaccine was successful — something never before tried at this scale.

But it turns out, it’s a lot easier to make thousands of doses for a clinical trial than to churn out millions a month. Making vaccines is a complex, sometimes finicky process, requiring sterile conditions and precise control of temperature and humidity.

At the same time, the global scramble for vaccines is straining supplies of everything from stainless steel tanks to the custom-made plastic bags that line them.

Adding to the difficulty, Pfizer and Moderna are using a technology, involving genetic material known as messenger RNA, that allows scientists to quickly adapt the technique for new pathogens. But it has never been commercially manufactured.

“Manufacturing a biological product is a science and an art in some ways,” said Prashant Yadav, who studies health care supply chains at the Center for Global Development in Washington.

Moderna, a small Massachusetts company that has never brought a vaccine to market, has been careful in its estimates, predicting since the summer that it would have “tens of millions” of doses by the end of the year, with two doses required for each person to be fully immunized. Moderna has received more than $2 billion from the federal government to develop and manufacture 100 million doses, and the company has said it can supply about 20 million doses before January.

Unlike most of its competitors, Pfizer did not accept federal money to ramp up its manufacturing, instead agreeing to sell the government 100 million doses for $1.95 billion. It has made similar advance purchase agreements with the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan, among others.

Dr. Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s chief executive, has said the company can produce up to 50 million doses by the end of the year, and half of that supply will go to other countries. Because the vaccine requires two doses, there will initially be enough for only 12.5 million of 330 million Americans.

“Very important protection, but still a small part of the population,” Dr. Bourla, told the news outlet Axios.

A Pfizer spokeswoman, Amy Rose, acknowledged that the company was falling short of its initial goals, partly because it had to order new equipment and obtain raw materials for the vaccine. In addition, when Pfizer expanded its trial to 44,000 from 30,000 people this fall, the push to make enough vaccine for thousands more volunteers diverted its attention from scaling up commercial production.

The company has since updated its production lines in the United States and Europe, Ms. Rose said, and it is confident in its ability to supply about 1.3 billion doses by the end of next year.

Some companies are developing vaccines that will likely be easier to mass produce than Pfizer’s and Moderna’s, but they have paused their clinical trials for safety reasons.

AstraZeneca said it had manufactured enough of its vaccine to meet its promise of hundreds of millions of doses by January, but a six-week pause in its trial meant that it probably wouldn’t get data on the performance of its vaccine in time to win federal authorization for its use this year.

The company’s chief executive, Pascal Soriot, recently told investors that it would fill the vials once it had a clearer picture of when the vaccine, which requires two doses, could be approved. “As soon as you turn this vaccine into vials, the shelf life starts ticking,” he said.

The vaccine maker Novavax — which had robust results in early studies and said it could supply the world with more than two billion doses next year — had to delay a large clinical trial by at least a month in part because of problems manufacturing tens of thousands of doses needed for the trial. The company has a $1.6 billion deal with the federal government to develop and manufacture its vaccine, which requires two doses.

In a statement, a Novavax spokeswoman said, “There are a number of things that can slow a trial start from the ideal plan, and it’s an immensely complex undertaking.” She said the company was ramping up manufacturing around the world.

Johnson &amp; Johnson, which started its clinical trial in September, later than its competitors, has said it is on track to manufacture 100 million doses of its single-dose vaccine by March and a billion by the end of next year. Its executives have said they do not expect trial results until early next year.

Still, even seasoned manufacturers can experience setbacks. Mr. Yadav, the supply chain expert, pointed to a shortage of flu vaccines in 2004, when a major manufacturer announced that 50 million doses, or half of the national supply for the United States, had been contaminated. “Those are risks that we will have to keep in mind,” he said.

The global race for a vaccine, as well as the pandemic’s disruption of factories and transportation, has severely taxed supply chains, causing delays or shortages for everything from glass vials to syringes.

James Robinson, who serves on the scientific advisory board for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation, which is helping to develop vaccines to supply low- and middle-income countries, said some companies were encountering delays because of shortages of custom-made plastic bags that line the stainless steel bioreactors where the vaccines are produced.

These bags function like the liners that chefs use for their slow cookers. Just like at home, the bags are removed when the batches are done, cutting down on the time needed to clean and sterilize the bioreactors.

But they are difficult to make, requiring their own complex supply chain. Several manufacturing experts said there were now weekslong delays in delivering them.

In October, the federal government awarded $31 million to the manufacturer Cytiva to expand production of vaccine supplies, like the bags and other equipment and ingredients. That was on top of the more than $1 billion the government awarded other supply-chain companies.

As the realities of vaccine manufacturing became clear, some federal health leaders, such as Moncef Slaoui, the chief adviser to Operation Warp Speed, moderated their predictions in the late summer.

But others, including President Trump, did not. He promised in October that a vaccine was only weeks away, and that it would go immediately to the general public. His chief of staff, Mark Meadows, said in September that 100 million doses would be available by October. At the same time, Mr. Trump slapped down some of his top health officials who laid out more realistic timelines.

Once additional vaccines are authorized — especially ones like Novavax that use older, more tried-and-true technologies — factories can begin churning out doses by the tens of millions.

Mr. Mango, of the Health and Human Services Department, said Operation Warp Speed was now estimating that, if several vaccines were authorized by the Food and Drug Administration in the next few months, the United States might have “several hundred million” doses available by the end of March, and then a few months after that, there might be enough for every American to receive a vaccine who wants one.

“Let’s not lose sight of the fact that never in the history of vaccine development has a vaccine been developed at scale in this period of time,” he said.

Mr. Robinson, a former manufacturing executive at companies including Merck, Sanofi and Novavax, said he, too, initially predicted that 300 million doses of vaccines could be ready by the end of this year. Even if that goal has not been met, the speed of development has been remarkable.

“If you don’t stretch for something that is aggressive,” he said, “then you are not going to get your best outcome.”





No.6 article:
Businesses With a Give-Back Mission Caught in Facebook Ad Ban

What do a small business that sell socks packaged by homeless youth and a start-up that makes bracelets from life vests once worn by refugees have to do with the spread of misinformation during the presidential election season?

Nothing, thought the entrepreneurs who started them, until Facebook notified them that their ads had been pulled because they fell into a category of “social issues, elections or politics” that were being blocked by the site.

The social media giant announced last week that it was extending a ban imposed on certain ads during the election to prevent the dissemination of false information. The prohibition has ensnared a number of socially driven businesses with no direct connection to partisan politics.

Companies connected to issues like hunger, the environment and immigration, many of which rely heavily on social media to draw customers to their websites, have seen their access abruptly cut off.

“We’re just selling socks and trying to do a good thing,” said Sam Harper, 27, co-founder of Hippy Feet, a company in Minneapolis that employs homeless youth. “We are not trying to advance any particular agenda around homelessness and unemployment.”

“Facebook is thinking of the political campaigns, and we are collateral damage in the process,” Mr. Harper said.

The entrepreneurs say they do not begrudge Facebook for barring falsehoods and misleading content. But they contend that it is unfair that their do-good businesses are being lumped in with politically motivated advertisers. With the crucial holiday season fast approaching, some fear that the ban, extended on Nov. 11 for another month, could spell their demise.

In the run-up to the 2016 election, deceptive and distorted information spread by Russian automated accounts and others on social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and YouTube was designed to influence voters. Some of the accounts generated posts about social issues, such as civil and women’s rights, that proved divisive.

This election cycle, amid mounting pressure to improve the monitoring of ads, Facebook and several other platforms blocked new political ads ahead of Election Day and extended the suspension during the contested vote counting afterward.

“The temporary pause for ads about politics and social issues in the U.S. continues to be in place as part of our ongoing efforts to protect the election,” the company said last week in announcing the extension. “Advertisers can expect this to last another month, though there may be an opportunity to resume these ads sooner.”

Sarah Schiff, a Facebook product manager, said the company made “difficult decisions” to temporarily suspend ads not only about politics and elections, but also on many social issues, “to protect the integrity of the election.”

“We know this may be disappointing, but we encourage businesses to run ads about other topics and reach people during this time through their organic posts and tools such as fund-raisers on Facebook and Instagram,” Ms. Schiff said in a statement.

The company said business owners who believed that their ads were flagged incorrectly could request reconsideration, either through an automated process or through a personal review.

“Enforcement isn’t perfect but we improve with time,” the statement said.

The ad policy so far has cast a wide net.

“Because you have to implement this at a tremendous scale, you can’t be making exceptions regularly,” said Jessica Alter, co-founder of Tech for Campaigns, a nonprofit group that advises Democratic campaigns on their social media advertising strategy. “Organizations and businesses trying to do good are unfairly disadvantaged.”

“If you have an all-out ban, this is the unintended consequence,” added Ms. Alter, who said she did not blame Facebook. “Is advertising mindfulness political? Yoga?”

Advertising on Facebook is a lifeline for Epimonia, a Minneapolis-based company that makes and sells bracelets and other items made from the discarded life jackets worn by refugees fleeing on flimsy boats to Europe.

The company spends several thousand dollars a year to advertise on Facebook, which targets users who have a favorable view of refugees based on the interests listed on their profiles. When an Epimonia ad pops up, those who click on it are directed to the company’s website.

“I have been advertising on Facebook for years. It’s very frustrating for me now to be categorized with groups using false advertising for political reasons,” said Mohamed Malim, 24, a Somali-American who started the business three years ago with $2,000 left from his college scholarship.

Epimonia’s ads were suspended in late October, when Facebook first announced a weeklong freeze on certain ads. They have not gone back up since, said Mr. Malim, who has appealed the decision several times, to no avail.

“Not being able to run ads before the holidays could put us out of business,” said Mr. Malim, who employs a handful of refugees to make bracelets, beanies and T-shirts.

Three of the banned Epimonia ads state that the purchase of a bracelet would help refugees build new lives in the United States. The ads also say that some of the proceeds will go to charitable causes.

“The ads have been approved but have been paused due to a Restriction Period,” Facebook told the company. “All issue, electoral and political ads in the U.S. were temporarily stopped.”

Facebook did not specify what was wrong with the ads, but Mr. Malim said he assumed that “since we talk about refugees in our brand communications, Facebook considers us a political advertiser.”

Given the uncertainty, he has decided to postpone the launch of a new apparel line planned for next week. “It will be hard for us to sell and to donate to nonprofits if we continue to have this problem,” Mr. Malim said.

Even before the election, Facebook required companies that have a social agenda to include a disclaimer in their ads. But businesses and ad agencies, which place ads for some of them, reported that Facebook has become more aggressive about disabling ads altogether in recent weeks.

One of the companies targeted was Bridgewater Candle Company, which donates money from every scented candle that it sells to orphans in Haiti, India and other countries through a Christian nonprofit group. Its slogan is, “Light a candle, feed a child.”

On Nov. 4, the business was notified by Facebook that an ad promoting its mission had been suspended. “The simplest line, ‘With every jar candle, we provide three meals,’ triggered its removal,” said Kelly Barter, marketing manager for the Spartanburg, S.C., company. “Facebook considers our giveback mission a social issue.”

It was the first time since the candle company started advertising on the platform three years ago that an approved ad had been pulled. It took a week of back-and-forth communication with Facebook to resurrect it.

“It’s problematic for an e-commerce business trying to drive sales and raise awareness to be shut down,” Ms. Barter said. “Thankfully, we were able to work through the roadblock.”

Blueland, which sells refillable and reusable cleaning products, does not ask its customers to donate to environmental causes. But the e-commerce site markets its soap, laundry and dishwater tablets as “a gift for you and the planet” because the products help eliminate polluting plastic containers.

It was on that basis that Facebook recently banned a Blueland ad that talked about how its reusable hand soap prevents single-use plastic bottles from washing up in oceans and going to landfills. Facebook then reviewed the ad at Blueland’s request, and allowed it to run without any modifications.

“It was something we were able to get corrected, but it wasn’t the best timing when we were about to go into the holiday season,” said Gina Pak, the company’s chief marketing officer.

Ms. Pak said she agreed with Facebook’s efforts to address “big, important issues” during the election but suggested that it was “disruptive” to have ads taken down.

Hippy Feet, which sells zany, colorful socks with music-oriented names like Sunset Lovers, Fleetwoods and Joplins, is committed to helping homeless teenagers and young adults by employing them on a part-time basis to fill and pack orders, screen print and embroider.

On the eve of the election, Facebook notified Hippy Feet several times that its ads violated the ad policy, according to a communication provided by the company.

“Their algorithms see words like homelessness and decide we are political,” said Mr. Harper, who started Hippy Feet four years ago with a friend.

The company is more dependent than ever on Facebook ads to help boost its online sales because the coronavirus pandemic has prevented it from selling as it normally would at holiday markets and bazaars. The business traditionally generates about 40 percent of its sales during the holidays, when it also employs the most homeless youth at its facility.

“We are a little on edge and uncertain about where things will go,” Mr. Harper said. “It has us questioning the security and viability of what we are doing, if we are impacted by something like an election.”

After discussions between Hippy Feet and Facebook, some of the ads were resurrected on the platform late last week; others remain disabled.

“We can’t be mad at the intention of the policy. It’s supposed to make Facebook and the world a safer place,” Mr. Harper said. “We just ended up at the wrong end of the stick.”





No.7 article:
How to Survive a Royal Weekend on ‘The Crown’

In the new season, Diana Spencer’s aristocratic breeding triumphs and Margaret Thatcher’s middle-class tendencies horrify the royals. Here’s a guide to the rigid world of the British class system.

This article contains spoilers for Season 4 of “The Crown.”

LONDON — Imagine you are invited to a black-tie dinner with the queen of England and the extended royal family at Balmoral Castle in Scotland, and it’s extremely important that you make a good impression. You’re asked to meet for drinks at 6 p.m. Do you arrive as the clock strikes in elegant evening wear, or do you wander in whenever, in an unbuttoned shirt, woolly sweater and muddy shoes?

If you answered with the former, then you have already failed the test, and the royal family are aghast. The queen might be smiling graciously, and brightly insisting that dinner (always at 8:15 p.m.) can be moved forward by over an hour, but the damage is done. At least you won’t be alone: this is Margaret Thatcher’s experience in an excruciating scene in the new season of “The Crown.”

In the fourth season of Netflix’s lavish show about the royal family, two significant new characters — Thatcher (Gillian Anderson) and Diana Spencer (Emma Corrin) — form very different relationships with Queen Elizabeth II (Olivia Colman) as a result of the extent to which they understand the bizarre, contrived intricacies of British upper-class etiquette and royal protocol.

Thatcher is first introduced to “The Crown” through the lens of the British class system. As the queen watches the news of her election, Prince Philip (Tobias Menzies) describes Thatcher in a sneering tone as “the shopkeeper’s daughter,” to which Elizabeth replies, “an alderman’s shopkeeper’s daughter, who worked hard and gained a scholarship to Oxford.” The distinction — in Britain — is an important one.

Thatcher’s father, Alfred Roberts, was a self-made and prosperous owner of two shops. He was alderman (an extinct local government position reserved for men of a certain self-importance, who also enjoy dressing up in robes) and mayor of the town of Grantham in the north of England, where the Thatcher family lived in an apartment above his shop.

Though Thatcher would later emphasize how much she lacked as a child — including hot running water and an inside toilet — her deprived home life was a result of her father’s financial meanness, not poverty. As Hugo Young puts it in his book “One of Us,” the young Thatcher “belonged to the rising petty bourgeoisie, not the beleaguered working class.” The mid-1930s was a time when 75 percent of British families were officially defined as working class, but Thatcher’s family belonged to the 20 percent that could be considered middle class.

All of this is complicated by the fact that Thatcher had elocution lessons to eliminate her regional accent, studied at Oxford University alongside Britain’s privileged elite and climbed the social ranks when she married the affluent, upper-middle class Denis Thatcher. In November 1970, when Thatcher was the education secretary, The Sun newspaper asked resentfully, “How did the grocer’s daughter from Grantham become a Tory lady with a taste for large hats, a posh home, a wealthy husband and children at public school?”

“I think the queen was very puzzled by Margaret Thatcher, because she jumped class,” Dean Palmer, the author of “The Queen and Mrs. Thatcher: An Inconvenient Relationship,” said in a telephone interview. Jumping into the upper class bracket is notoriously difficult in Britain, since, generally, the main way to get titles, land and “good breeding” — the traditional cornerstones of the aristocracy — is to inherit them. Mere money rarely cuts it. (Before Prince William married Kate Middleton, sources close to the royal family were quoted in newspapers bemoaning her wealthy — but not aristocratic — mother, whose faux pas included social climbing, chewing gum in public and an earlier career as a flight attendant.)

By the time she became prime minister in 1979, Thatcher looked and sounded posh, but she had very little in common with royalty. Still, a stickler for the rules and an ardent monarchist, Thatcher famously arrived early to her meetings with the queen and gave incredibly low, reverential curtsies. She admitted in her autobiography, “The Downing Street Years,” published in 1993, “I was anxious about getting the details of procedure and protocol right.”

But biographers have observed that Thatcher’s anxious disposition, pretentious accent and grandiose manner simply irritated the queen. Before Thatcher became prime minister, she was invited to Buckingham Palace as leader of the Conservative Party. “On at least two occasions,” Palmer said, “she got dizzy and fainted, and the queen had to say ‘Someone catch that woman — again!’”

In the second episode, “The Balmoral Test,” the relationship between the queen and Thatcher sours during trips to the queen’s private residence in Scotland. Once called “the sweetheart of suburbia” by The Newcastle Evening Chronicle, Thatcher had no interest in the country pursuits of shooting and fishing and did not bring the correct attire of tweeds, sweaters and wellington boots. A workaholic with little time for leisure, she shocks the royal family by working instead.

“If you’re not interested in shooting or horses or dogs, what do you do?” Palmer said. “That Balmoral world is a very strange, backward world that doesn’t exist outside of ‘Downton Abbey’ these days.” In the show, Thatcher leaves the visit early, infuriated by the lifestyle of a family she increasingly saw as the idle rich.

If Thatcher failed “the Balmoral test,” “The Crown” shows Diana passing with flying colors. We first hear about the Spencer family when the queen is told that Charles is dating Sarah Spencer, Diana’s older sister. “Johnnie’s girl?” she responds. “Oh, I rather like that idea!”

“Johnnie” is John Spencer, the eighth Earl Spencer: an Eton-educated nobleman and member of the House of Lords who had served as an equerry (a kind of attendant) to both King George VI and Queen Elizabeth II. The connection to royalty is an old one: Diana’s maternal grandmother was a friend of Elizabeth’s mother, and Diana was named after an ancestor intended to be another Princess of Wales. The two families quite literally could not have been closer: Diana was raised on the estate of one of the queen’s private residences: Sandringham, in Norfolk. Essentially, the queen was the family’s landlord, until they inherited their own palatial estate when Diana was 14.

As the author bell hooks has noted, that Diana “was from an upper-class background was obscured, and hers became a rags-to-riches story.” The writer Hilary Mantel observed in a recent essay collection, “Mantel Pieces,” that, in some ways, the Spencers were more embedded in the British aristocracy than the royals: “Though she was not born royal, her ancestors were ancient power-brokers, dug more deeply into these islands than the Windsors,” she wrote.

By the time Charles had begun dating Diana, both the royals and the press were delighted by the suitability of the match. “Her pedigree is perfect,” one news reporter cooed. “At that time it seemed imperative that the Prince of Wales should marry an aristocrat,” Penny Junor, who has written biographies of both Elizabeth and Diana, said in an email. “Diana seemed perfect in every way.”

Having experienced an aristocratic rural upbringing similar to Prince Charles’s, Diana understood life at Balmoral. “Diana had no difficulty fitting in with the royals,” Junor said. “She knew how to hold her knife and fork, and was used to servants. She seemed to fit in perfectly, and appeared to enjoy all the outdoor activities.” A private secretary to the Queen praised Diana’s “wonderful instincts.”

But this was, to an extent, a performance. “In reality she didn’t enjoy yomping across the heather in the pouring rain,” Junor said. Diana made this abundantly clear when, after their wedding, Charles took her back to “Bloody Balmoral” (as she would later call it) for the last leg of their honeymoon. Tina Brown, in her biography of the princess, called this the moment when the “happy, gosh-I’m-all-muddy” Diana disappeared.

Diana was so bored and overwhelmed by the numerous formal dinners with strange guests that the family, Brown observed, “began to get the alarming realization that for a girl of her pedigree she was somehow a social novice.” Though her childhood was aristocratic, it was solitary, and Diana found the constant social pressures of royal life exhausting.

Later episodes of “The Crown” also show Diana struggling with the intricacies of royal life, like whom she had to curtsy to first, even at the family’s own private gatherings. In his biography, Andrew Morton wrote that Diana was “deeply disenchanted with the protocol, the flummery and the artifice” of the family, and “the brittle formality” of royal life. As she persisted with a more casual, less stuffy approach to her own relationships and duties, she was celebrated by the public but resented by the royals, becoming increasingly alienated from them.

Of course, the most important story of class in 1980s Britain is not one of upper-class etiquette. Thatcher’s 11 years in power was a period of dramatic economic and racial inequality, and a worsening quality of life for the average Briton. As her policies shrunk the welfare state, opposed labor unions and sold off social housing, unemployment and child poverty rates doubled.

“The Crown” only nods to this wider context in the story of Michael Fagan, the man who the show depicts breaking into the queen’s bedroom in 1982 as an act of class protest. Colman’s queen lets him voice his troubles, saying unemployment “bothers” her “greatly” and seems to have real sympathy for the plight of the working classes under Thatcher. In reality, the queen “ran out of the room” upon discovering him, Fagan told The Independent in 2012.

“A lot of people want to present the queen as a lefty at heart,” Palmer said. “I don’t buy that at all.”





No.8 article:
Was It Worth It, Jared and Ivanka?

The glossiest grifters become Vuitton vagabonds.

Just five short years ago Jared and Ivanka were dinner-party royalty here in Manhattan. It’s that kind of place. They had money, they had youth, they had celebrity. They were thin. I’m told that their manners were impeccable, so you’d never know that his father was an actual felon and her father a de facto one. Besides, you can’t hold family against someone, can you? We don’t choose how we’re born.

But from then on, we do make choices, and we’re accountable for those.

Jared and Ivanka are about to be held accountable.

They chose to tether their fortunes to her father’s, chose to go along for the ride, chose to see how far it could take them, because what if it took them all the way? What if Ivanka became the first female president, something that Manhattan acquaintances of hers assured me that she fantasized about, a giddy possibility that her father floated out loud.

With that crowning adventure — that climactic branding opportunity — dangling before her, she and Jared rationalized her father’s tantrums, fed his delusions, laundered his cruelty and kept her Instagram aglow with images from their fabulous new Washington life.

Down there, near the border: migrant children in cages. Over here, near the Potomac: Javanka in their gilded tableaux.

They are the Faustian poster couple of the Trump presidency, the king and queen of the principle-torching prom at which so many danced alongside them, although in less exquisitely tailored attire.

They are Mitch McConnell after a makeover, Ted Cruz gone to charm school, Mike Pompeo with a more rigorous fitness regimen, Lindsey Graham with less time on the links. They are Mike Pence and Nikki Haley and scores of others in and out of office, so entranced by power, so enchanted by perks, so primed for future prizes that they junked values that they once supposedly held and downgraded decency to something ornamental, a sprig of parsley on a fish fillet.

Tell me, Jared. Be honest, Ivanka. Was it worth it?

It’s a question for the whole shockingly populous court of collaborators around President Trump. Time will tell. Trumpism isn’t ending. Trump himself isn’t going away. He’ll have his PAC, maybe he’ll have his new media venture, there’s that rumor — I’d call it a threat — that he’s eyeing 2024. A wagon hitched to his may not be veering into the ditch just yet.

But the wagon that belonged to Jared and Ivanka was different from the others. It didn’t fit neatly into the Trump administration’s motley caravan of expedience and ambition: They were glossier grifters. That dissonance brought them special derision, because it was a particularly unsettling illustration of the tradeoffs that people are willing to make, the compromises that they can talk themselves into.

How big a leap was it, really, for Don Jr. to go from hunting big game in Africa to haranguing the political bigwigs whom Daddy dubbed RINOs? No one in Junior’s old crowd was going to be surprised or appalled.

Same old menace, new prey.

Pence’s and Pompeo’s fellow evangelicals didn’t and won’t begrudge them their worship of Trump, because all of them found that twisted religion together. And no serious observer is disillusioned by McConnell, because no serious observer had any illusions about him in the first place. He does what he must to maximize his impact.

But what of Jared and Ivanka? They epitomized the very entitled, elite class of Ivy-groomed, Davos-bound Americans that her father mocked. They were sanctioning the savaging of their soon-to-be-former friends. You could say that they defected. But are they really going to be content in their new social homeland, now that 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. is no longer its clubhouse?

Where, geographically, will they alight? That was a question prominently explored over recent days in Vanity Fair and CNN, which portrayed them more or less as Vuitton vagabonds.

Washington won’t work, not even a suite at the Trump International Hotel, because there’s nothing more pathetic than lingering at a party once the music has stopped.

Mar-a-Loco makes questionable sense. It’s Melania’s sandbox, and she and Ivanka play together about as sweetly as Andrew Cuomo and Bill de Blasio do. New Jersey is where the Kushners have their roots, but Javanka is accustomed to more glitz than that. At this point they’re Aspen, not Asbury Park.

I have suggestions. North Korea, for one. Ivanka has met its ruler and been to the Demilitarized Zone. She wouldn’t have to ask for directions. Saudi Arabia. Jared and Prince Mohammed bin Salman are spiritual twins, conjoined by their sense of superiority.

Russia. Yes, Russia! It would be the poetic choice, bringing the Trump family’s presidential adventure full circle.

But it’s New York City, where Javanka still own an apartment, that’s surely drawing their gaze. And that’s, well, awkward. The Trump administration did label it an “anarchic jurisdiction” as part of an attempt to deny it as much as $12 billion in federal funds. Javanka would have some explaining to do.

They might not find many people willing to listen. “Everyone with self-respect, a career, morals, respect for democracy, or who doesn’t want their friends to shame them both in private and public, will steer clear,” one unidentified former acquaintance of theirs told Emily Jane Fox for her Vanity Fair article.

Another said: “Ivanka is no Princess Margaret and Jared is not the Duke of Windsor regaling guests with amusing bon mots to a captive audience. No one wants to hear about Sarah Huckabee’s pies or Steve Bannon’s shirts.” A snob like that actually deserves a dynamic duo like them (and may shed light on how President Trump found the traction in the heartland that he did).

Javanka can’t protest that they moderated the president, not after his past immoderate weeks of raging against democracy and conniving to subvert it. They can’t retroactively claim some profound but strangled ambivalence about his reign, not after her fangirl phantasmagoria at the Republican convention.

No, they have made their bed. Lucky for them, the sheets have a serious thread count.





No.9 article:
1,000 Interviews to Pick No. 1: Inside the Timberwolves’ N.B.A. Draft Prep

It has taken months of watching film, traveling the country and conducting interviews on video, but Minnesota is just about ready to make the first pick in the N.B.A. draft — or trade it away.

Gersson Rosas and his staff had spent five months working remotely by the time the N.B.A. draft lottery was staged on Aug. 20 to determine the order of the top picks. As the president of basketball operations for the Minnesota Timberwolves, Rosas saw it as an opportunity to do something different — an opportunity to return to the office.

“We were socially distancing with masks in the room,” Rosas said, “but we wanted to do it together.”

The lottery was virtual because of the coronavirus pandemic, with D’Angelo Russell, the team’s starting point guard, representing Minnesota on the ESPN broadcast from his off-season home in Miami. The Timberwolves had a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 pick. Luck was on their side.

As Rosas celebrated with a small group of co-workers that included Ryan Saunders, the team’s coach, and Sachin Gupta, the executive vice president of basketball operations, they were already looking ahead — though the date of the draft remained uncertain.

“If you’re in that position, you want to be prepared,” Rosas said.

There has never been a more strange year to own the rights to the No. 1 pick. If nothing else, the Timberwolves have had the luxury of time — so much time — to evaluate prospects and weigh their options ahead of Wednesday’s draft, which will finally unfold eight months after the Timberwolves last played a game and about five months after it was originally scheduled.

“We’ve had to guard against information overload,” Saunders said in a recent telephone interview, “because that is a real thing.”

Still, the Timberwolves appear to have done an encyclopedic amount of research. The team has thoroughly evaluated every player it deems “draftable,” Rosas said. In part, that has meant conducting more than 1,000 interviews — many with draft prospects and plenty more with the coaches and personnel from various basketball walks of life who know them the best. Gupta, who studied computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has assembled a “pretty big spreadsheet” that includes player assessments in nearly 50 categories, including shooting, defense, passing, upside and psychological makeup.

“We do try to quantify most things,” he said, “and it’s not for the sake of having a number because we’re numbers people. It’s for the sake of trying to be objective and standard across the board.”

And then there is the video footage.

“For a lot of top guys, it has meant watching every minute of game film that exists of them,” Gupta said, “which isn’t something you’d be able to do normally. But we’ve had time.”

Adding to the intrigue, there is no clear favorite as the No. 1 pick. LaMelo Bell, James Wiseman and Anthony Edwards are among the players who have been projected to be in the mix. The Timberwolves have been cagey about their plans — they also have the Nos. 17 and 33 picks — while leaving open the possibility that they could make trades.

If they keep the top pick, the Timberwolves will still be building around two young stars in Russell, 24, and Karl-Anthony Towns, 25, a center and two-time All-Star whom they selected with the top overall pick in 2015. Minnesota has made one playoff appearance in the past 16 seasons.

“It’s nice to be able to pick a guy who doesn’t have to carry the whole burden,” said Rosas, who joined the Timberwolves in 2019 after a long run as an executive with the Houston Rockets.

In important ways, N.B.A. teams were hindered by the pandemic as they went about their preparation for the draft. The Timberwolves, Rosas said, would ordinarily welcome 60 to 80 prospects to Minneapolis for in-person workouts. The league also typically holds a predraft combine every May.

But because of league restrictions, the combine was done virtually and teams were prohibited from hosting prospects at their practice facilities.

The Timberwolves have compensated. Since the night of the draft lottery, the hub of activity for their predraft operation has been their self-described “war room,” a recently renovated conference room at the practice facility that Rosas had outfitted with magnetic whiteboards and oversize touch-screen monitors.

On any given day, 14 to 16 people — scouts, analysts, coaches, even medical personnel — gather in that room. They all undergo daily testing for the coronavirus, then study game film before engaging in spirited but congenial debate.

“Let’s say we study a group of players over several days,” Gupta said. “At the end of that, everyone will do their rankings and we’ll have a voting exercise, and we’ll compile that and discuss that some more. Generally, it’s a democracy.”

Saunders and his assistants have been part of the process from the start. Saunders sits between Rosas and Manny Rohan, one of the assistant general managers.

“It’s kind of like the bus,” Saunders said. “The seat you took the first day became your assigned seat in a way.”

It is, above all, a communal effort. If, for example, Rosas or another member of his staff interviews a prospect on a videoconference call from the relative privacy of an office down the hall, the interview is often projected onto a big screen in the war room so that everyone can watch.

In lieu of the usual combine and the other predraft activities that were shelved because of the pandemic, the league has allowed teams to meet with as many as 10 players in person. Rosas recently led a small contingent from the Timberwolves, including Saunders, on an eight-day, cross-country odyssey to work out seven prospects.

Much can be gleaned from watching film and from interviews. But there is still value in occupying the same physical space as prospects for their workouts — an experience that cannot be replicated by staring at a laptop.

“There are minute details,” Saunders said. “Maybe you can see how the ball rests on his palm when he’s shooting, or where his eyes are when he’s dribbling.”

For small-market teams like the Timberwolves, the draft tends to have outsize importance. It is easier to build through the draft (and through trades) than it is to attract top-shelf free agents to Minneapolis or, say, Milwaukee. No offense to either of those fine cities, but LeBron James did not film his “Space Jam 2” sequel on a studio lot in St. Paul.

The Timberwolves have had a mixed record in recent lotteries. Towns is a rising star, and they made Zach LaVine — now a solid player for the Chicago Bulls — the 13th pick in 2014. But Minnesota also used the second overall pick on Derrick Williams in 2011 and the fifth pick on Kris Dunn in 2016. Williams is now playing in Spain, while Dunn is bound for free agency after the Bulls, according to multiple reports, declined to extend him a qualifying offer.

Rosas, though, has already had an impact. In February, deep into his first season in Minnesota, he made a trade-deadline splash by sending Andrew Wiggins (a former No. 1 overall pick of the Cleveland Cavaliers) to the Golden State Warriors in exchange for a package that included Russell and two future draft picks.

Rosas knows that astute picks can help reshape a franchise. He referred to the 2013 draft, which was notable largely because Anthony Bennett went No. 1 over all to the Cavaliers and Giannis Antetokounmpo went No. 15 to the Bucks. Antetokounmpo has won back-to-back N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Awards. Bennett fizzled out of the league after four seasons.

“You can do everything right and be wrong,” Rosas said. “Or you can do everything wrong and be right. That’s the reality in sports. But we feel like we’re doing the little things right.”

He added: “Our philosophy is very strongly to take the best player available. We see the draft as a three- or four-year decision. Because while our roster might look one way now, in two or three years, through trades or free agency or whatever the case may be, it might change. So we don’t ever want to leave talent on the table.”

Few have deeper or more personal ties to the Timberwolves than Saunders. His father, Flip, who died in 2015, was synonymous with the franchise as a longtime coach and executive. Flip Saunders’s first draft as the team’s general manager was in 1995, when Ryan was 9 years old. Ryan Saunders does not remember much about that draft, other than that it worked out well for the team: The Timberwolves selected Kevin Garnett, a future Hall of Famer, straight out of high school with the fifth pick.

“My dad went through a couple of re-toolings, a couple of builds,” Ryan Saunders said, “and he always used to say that the lottery and draft night, no matter where you’re picking, can be a night of hope, because you can look to the future from there. Every once in a while, 10 years down the line, maybe you can say, ‘That’s when things changed for us.’”





No.10 article:
The Democrats Went All Out Against Susan Collins. Rural Maine Grimaced.

The $180 million Senate contest, a political scientist said, “was like being a local in Woodstock in 1969: When it first started, it was exciting and fun, but by the end, it was muddy and dirty.”

RUMFORD, Maine — In the great Democratic heave to remove Susan Collins from her Senate seat in Maine, Matt Gilbert should have been low-hanging fruit.

He is the son of a four-term Democratic state representative in one of Maine’s traditionally Democratic mill towns. As a high school principal, he had complaints about Senator Collins, a Republican, mostly centering on Trump-era education policy.

But over the weeks leading up to Election Day, Mr. Gilbert was first put off, and then “disgusted,” by the negative tone of the Senate showdown, in which spending by candidates and outside groups totaled more than $180 million.

The relentless television advertisements. The cold calls. The mailings, fistfuls of them every day, “crumpled up and in the recycling bin” before he even glanced at them.

By the time the Democratic Party distributed yard signs, Mr. Gilbert refused to display one for Sara Gideon, Ms. Collins’s opponent, leaving a gap among the signs he displayed in support of Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Jared Golden, his Democratic congressman; and Black Lives Matter. He ended up voting for Lisa Savage, an independent candidate.

“The approach on the ads and campaigning was disgusting enough that I didn’t want to vote for the person anymore, even though I agreed with the policy stances,” he said.

“I don’t think you could sit there and say this is a classy way to do this,” he added. “I don’t think that’s what Maine represents.”

The Democratic effort to remove Ms. Collins is bound to be analyzed by strategists seeking to avoid a similar disappointment. She has long been an object of frustration for the left, often voting like a Democrat on issues like abortion but defending President Trump at critical moments like the impeachment proceedings and the nomination of Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.

In a state tilting away from Mr. Trump, Ms. Collins appeared to be easy pickings, and donors poured money into the state. For weeks before the election, polls showed Ms. Collins struggling for survival, outspent two-to-one by her rival. But on Nov. 3 she won by eight points, in large part thanks to a groundswell of support in small towns.

In Rumford, which flipped Republican in 2016, voters thought the reasons were clear: The Gideon campaign, they said, was too focused on national politics. It was too negative, they complained. And it cost too much money, too much of it from outside the state.

“It was like being a local in Woodstock in 1969,” said Dan Shea, a professor of government at Colby College. “When it first started, it was exciting and fun, but by the end, it was muddy and dirty. My guess is that there were diminishing returns by September.”

Targeted spending on advertising does, of course, work in some cases. Mark Kelly, the Democratic Senate candidate in Arizona, was buoyed by $38.7 million in donations in the last three months of the race, and defeated Martha McSally, the Republican incumbent, in a traditionally conservative state.

But Maine offers an example of how a nationalized, big-money effort can backfire. Maine’s media market is tiny and the cost of advertising so low that the campaigns were hard-pressed to spend the money they had.

As a result, viewers were flooded with advertisements starting in the spring, accusing Ms. Collins of selling out to special interests or caving to Mr. Trump. And that spending — perceived as coming from outside the state — did not sit well with many Mainers.

“If you pump $100 million in here, you’re trying to buy the election,” said David Libby, 65, a boilermaker from Rumford.

“I’m not opposed to someone bringing their views here, but you can’t shove it down our throat,” he said. “You cannot force something down the throat of a Mainer. If we agree with it, we agree. If we don’t, we don’t. And we certainly will let you know either way.”

Heidi Arsenault, who was shampooing a customer at the House of Beauty, in the adjoining town of Mexico, said the campaign spending was particularly unappealing at a time when many Mainers were struggling to feed their families.

“To think that kind of money was spent is kind of like a slap in the face of America,” she said.

Many voters complained that Ms. Gideon’s campaign tried to cast Ms. Collins through the lens of national politics, tying her to Mr. Trump and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader — an approach that fell flat in towns that have relied on Ms. Collins for decades for constituent services, and to bring money into the state.

“You don’t need to tell us who Susan Collins is,” said Mr. Gilbert, the school principal. “We’ve seen her for 30 years. She’s had a relationship that was before Trump, and it’s going to last after Trump.”

Jeanne Lapointe, 60, the nutritionist for Rumford’s school district, agreed. “I don’t think the relationship with the Republican president was a whoop-de-do for anyone,” she said. “Mainers reward someone who shows up, and she does show up.”

Of course, the negative spending went in both directions. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, a campaign watchdog group, outside Republican groups spent almost $42 million on ads opposing Ms. Gideon, compared with the nearly $52 million spent by Democratic groups against Ms. Collins.

Those funds went to ads that damaged Ms. Gideon — one that claimed “Sara Gideon’s family business wasn’t paying their taxes,” citing delinquencies on properties owned by her husband’s company; another that asserted that, as speaker of the Maine House of Representatives, she failed to respond to sexual abuse allegations against a Democratic lawmaker (though he was not charged with any crime, and Ms. Gideon did ask him to resign).

But voters were more jolted by the attacks on Ms. Collins, who has represented Maine in the Senate for 24 years. Ms. Gideon is a relative newcomer, having moved to Freeport 16 years ago — “from away,” as Mainers call those born in other states.

In the last weeks of the campaign, Ms. Collins deftly cast Ms. Gideon as an aggressive outsider in a series of advertisements that are now widely viewed as game changing. They featured Bill Green, a retired sportscaster with a snow-white mustache and an unassuming, salt-of-the-earth vigor.

In his 47-year history on Maine television, Mr. Green had steered clear of political partisanship, preferring subjects like clam rakes and runner sleds. He is a registered Democrat. But starting last summer — specifically, with a bumper sticker that he saw around that read “Bye-Bye, Susan” — he was irritated by the tone of the challenge to Ms. Collins.

“What I really think happened was that the national Democratic Party was too heavy-handed,” he said. “This was like when you’re a little kid and somebody is bullying somebody. You’re supposed to stop it. It was nothing more sophisticated than that.”

So he offered Ms. Collins his help — for free. In the first advertisement, wearing an L.L. Bean jacket and a look of good-humored incredulity, Mr. Green said, “You are seeing more than $40 million in false attacks against Susan Collins by out-of-staters who don’t give a darn about Maine, and it’s shameful.”

In an interview at the Capitol on Thursday, Ms. Collins said she believed that the Democratic ad campaign had backfired. “They were over the top, and they were so outrageous,” she said. “I started hearing, at the end, ‘I am so sick of those lying ads.’ And I started hearing that all over the state.”

Toby McGrath, a former deputy chief of staff for Senator Angus King who headed Barack Obama’s presidential campaigns in Maine, said there were messaging errors by “Gideon and D.C. Democrats,” who “wanted to make this race about D.C. and Mitch McConnell and Trump and tie Susan Collins to that.”

It was also, he said, a challenge to spend such a large amount of money in a state as small as Maine. “This race got out of control with the amount of resources,” he said. “I think if this race is $30 million from both sides, you’re in a better place. There’s only so much you can do with that money. When you have that much money, you’re throwing stuff at the wall.”

Maine’s mill towns were reliably Democratic until they flipped red for Mr. Trump in 2016. Once wealthy communities, they have steadily lost population, and remain dotted with relics of their old prosperity, like Rumford’s elegant, neoclassical Hotel Harris. The paper industry began a long decline in the 1980s, and Rumford’s mill work force contracted from a high point of 3,000, in the 1960s, to around 650 today.

“They’re fed up with politics, politicians in general, Democrats and Republicans,” said Kerri Arsenault, whose memoir, “Mill Town,” traced the industry’s decline.

“There’s a lot of angry Trump people who work in that mill,” said Deano Gilbert, 57, a union official at the mill. “I deal with guys that have had union jobs for decades that are superstrong Trump supporters. In the 1970s, everyone would be trying to vote their jobs, but now that’s all over.”

Asked how Democrats could better reach voters in towns like Rumford, he said, “Know your audience.”

In Rumford, Ms. Gideon won 35 percent of the vote, performing significantly worse than her fellow Democrats, Mr. Biden (44 percent) and Mr. Golden (55 percent). As for the voters, many of them are just glad the barrage of appeals has fallen silent. Darlene Cormier, 53, said that in the end, all the campaign materials ended up in the same place.

“We just put them in our pile, our burn pile, and burned them,” she said. “We knew who we were going to vote for.”





No.11 article:
The Hardest Fight to Have With Your Teen

It’s rough for adolescents during the pandemic. Here’s what they’re going through and how you can help.

I have long thought that when it comes to being a parent in the pandemic, it might be the hardest for parents of teenagers. Parents of little ones can meet most of our children’s social needs, and our kids still kind of want to be around us. Not so for parents of teens. I recall with poignant shame what a complete nightmare I was at 16 when I was told, for various sensible reasons, that I could not hang out with my idiot friends. I can only imagine the epic battles that would have ensued had there been a pandemic raging, keeping me from hotboxed station wagons.

So in fairness to teens in 2020, this is a particularly difficult time to be young. “Pandemic conditions are at cross currents with normal adolescent development,” said Lisa Damour, Ph.D, a clinical psychologist and the author of The New York Times’ Adolescence column. The most powerful forces driving development for middle and high schoolers are increased independence over time, along with being with one’s peers, Dr. Damour said, and the virus curtails both of those things.

But Generation Z is not a monolith — it’s made up of millions of individuals with very different backgrounds, personalities and life circumstances. Which explains why a handful of new studies have shown that the pandemic has been a mixed bag for teenagers, and that teens who are worried about their basic needs being met are more depressed than those who have more stable financial circumstances.

A survey of over 1,500 teens, collected between May and July of this year by the Institute for Family Studies and the Wheatley Institution, found that, “The percentage of teens who were depressed or lonely was actually lower than in 2018, and the percentage who were unhappy or dissatisfied with life was only slightly higher.” The study’s authors suggest that the reason for the improvement in mood was that teens were sleeping more in quarantine, and also that a majority — 68 percent — said that they felt closer to their families.

Food insecurity was associated with the largest difference in depression. “Among teens who worried that their families would not have enough to eat, 33 percent were depressed, versus 14 percent of teens who were not worried about having enough food,” according to the study. This tracks with studies tracking parental mental health as well, as moms and dads who are concerned about meeting their children’s basic needs report the highest levels of stress.

Another survey of 1,000 teenagers from the mental health initiative WellBeings.org from early October is bleak. Almost 50 percent of teens said their mental health is much worse or somewhat worse than it was pre-pandemic. More than 50 percent said their social life is worse or somewhat worse, and over 72 percent said that the coronavirus has created a disadvantage for their generation, with climate change and racial strife cited as the biggest societal stressors for them outside of the virus.

I asked Dr. Damour what she thought about the disparate results of these surveys. First, she mentioned that stress is something that’s cumulative, not just for teens, but for everybody. “It’s impossible for us to say that Covid is X amount stressful for teens, because it’s entirely contingent on what other factors are at play,” she said. “If your family is impoverished or on the verge of poverty, Covid-19 lays on top of that. If your family is dealing with systemic racism, Covid-19 lays on top of that.” The universals that the whole country is experiencing, like the impact to teens’ social lives and schooling, can only be seen through the lens of the other stressors in their lives.

And the quality of a teen’s relationship with their parents is more important than ever right now, since we’re smooshed together for prolonged periods of time. “There are plenty of teens who get along with their parents and love their parents,” she said, as well as, “a lot of teens who have friction with their parents, or may not feel accepted by their parents for any variety of reasons. And for whom going to school each day and being around the ‘good grown-ups’ of school, were how they were getting through their adolescence.”

I asked Dr. Damour which issue she saw flaring up around teens that wasn’t getting enough attention. She said she’s concerned about a potential rise in disordered eating, because when kids have too much time on their hands or feel out of control, they may become more obsessional.

Additionally, if they’re only interacting with their peers on social media, that “can warp the sense of what people really look like,” Dr. Damour said, because they’re not able to measure someone’s manicured TikTok angles with how they might really look in person. There’s some data to back her up: Almost 50 percent of teens surveyed by WellBeings said weight, fitness level, general health or body image have a negative effect on their mental health.

Finally, I asked Dr. Damour what parents can do if they’re fighting with their teens about socializing. Not all kids are like my teen jerk self, who desperately wanted to spend her time in dank and unsupervised basements with poor ventilation — in fact, many teens are taking the virus incredibly seriously, and are more risk-averse than their parents. Dr. Damour said these are the worst kinds of fights to have — there’s no definitively right answer — and she advised that parents and teens try to do some role playing to see it from the other person’s perspective, even if it feels a bit corny.

Say to your teen: “Let me try to articulate it from your perspective,” and really try to express their point of view. You should even stop and ask, What am I missing? What am I not getting here? And then, allow your teen to do the same back to you. “It isn’t a solution, but it often paves the way to a solution,” Dr. Damour said, because parents and kids alike can get stuck in their own perspectives about the pandemic, and this exercise can get them at least a little unstuck. It won’t solve all your problems with your adolescent, though as I recall from being a teenager, only time will do that.





No.12 article:
Quotation of the Day: Democrats Went All Out; It Might Be Why They Lost

“It was like being a local in Woodstock in 1969. When it first started, it was exciting and fun, but by the end, it was muddy and dirty.”

DAN SHEA, a professor of government at Colby College, on the diminishing returns of a deluge of out-of-state money intended to topple Senator Susan Collins, a moderate Republican from Maine.





No.13 article:
Michigan Republicans Backtrack After Refusing to Certify Election Results

G.O.P. members of the elections board in Wayne County, which includes Detroit and is heavily Democratic, reversed their decision to hold up approval of Joe Biden’s victory after an outcry.

DETROIT — Republican members of a key Michigan elections board refused on Tuesday to certify Detroit’s election results in a nakedly partisan effort to hold up Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory over President Trump — only to reverse themselves after an outcry from the city’s voters and state officials.

The initial deadlock and pressure-packed turnaround capped a chaotic day of repeated Republican misfires in the party’s attempt to undermine the election results. Republicans lost a case before the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and faced a skeptical reception in a separate hearing in federal court in Pennsylvania, and an audit in Georgia confirmed there was no foul play with voting machines.

The Republican gambit in Detroit was among the starkest examples of how previously routine aspects of the nation’s voting system have been tainted by Mr. Trump’s effort to challenge his defeat, and he appeared to revel in the night’s chaos with celebratory tweets attacking Detroit even after the deadlock ended. 

But the reversal by the elections board in Wayne County — which is home to Detroit — showed the limits of what has been, in essence, an effort to disenfranchise large numbers of Americans. The board’s G.O.P. members certified the results only after voters there angrily accused the Republicans of trying to steal their votes.

At first, the two Republicans on the board said they were voting against certifying the results because many precincts in the county had conflicting figures for the numbers of votes cast and the number of voters they recorded as having participated, even though the disparities mostly involved a small number of ballots. The board deadlocked, with Michigan Democrats denouncing the opposition as a blatantly political intrusion into the process, and criticizing the Republican move as racist.

At one point, a Republican board member, Monica Palmer, had made a motion to “certify the results in the communities other than the city of Detroit” — a move that would effectively disenfranchise one of the nation’s major predominantly Black cities.

Mark Brewer, an election law expert and a former chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party, noted that Ms. Palmer’s motion would have blocked certification for Detroit, where Black residents make up 78 percent of the population, and certified the results for communities like Livonia, where the Black population is 4.4 percent.

“Monica Palmer sat there and said she’s willing to approve the results of the lily-white city of Livonia, which had the second-highest number of out-of-balance precincts, but she won’t certify the city of Detroit,” Mr. Brewer said. “There is no reason to single out the city of Detroit for this racist treatment.”

The deadlock looked at first like a rare win for Mr. Trump, who, despite repeated losses in court and a string of baseless claims, has continued undaunted with a relentless legal, procedural and rhetorical assault on the country’s election system.

Even after the board cleared its initial stalemate, the night provided fresh evidence that, at the very least, Mr. Trump’s campaign is managing to disrupt what has long been an orderly process of certifying the clear winner of the popular and Electoral College votes and ensuring a peaceful transfer of power. Though Mr. Trump’s supporters have appeared to delight in his attacks, the Michigan confusion showcased a counterforce — angry voters who would not abide any possibility that their votes would be nullified by the president’s maneuvering.

Though Mr. Trump faces impossible odds in his attempt to force a different result from the one voters rendered, he and top Republican allies have shown that they have no intention of ceasing their attacks on the voting system.

The chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, Ronna McDaniel, a Michigan native with strong ties to the state’s Republicans, said on Twitter after the initial deadlock, “We need to further investigate, and every legal vote needs to be counted to ensure the integrity of the election.” There were no indications that any of the issues in Wayne County were related to fraud.

The Republican moves in Michigan came on the same day that Mr. Trump ousted the chief of the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is responsible for protecting the national voting infrastructure and has aggressively disputed the false claims by Mr. Trump and his supporters that election software improperly gave votes to Mr. Biden.

Though the night ended with a resolution, the fight at the Wayne County canvassing board pointed to how Mr. Trump’s supporters were focusing on even the minutiae of state certification processes that are usually shielded from the hardball tactics of national political campaigns. Mr. Biden won the heavily Democratic county by nearly 323,000 votes; he prevailed in Michigan by about 148,000 votes, or 50.5 percent to Mr. Trump’s 47.9 percent.

Michigan has 83 county canvassing boards, each of which was to certify its results by Tuesday. Next, the process moves to Michigan’s Board of State Canvassers, where the final results are to be finalized by a Nov. 23 deadline.

At issue in Wayne County were minor discrepancies in which the number of votes cast did not match the number of voters listed as having shown up to vote in various election precincts. This could have stemmed from scenarios like a voter leaving a long line, or an absentee ballot kicked out of a tabulator, among other possibilities. Most involved a handful of votes, and were the types of inconsistencies that are frequently found during canvassing processes without leading to deadlocks like the one that happened on Tuesday.

Sensing that Republicans might play politics with the certification, Representatives Debbie Dingell and Rashida Tlaib, two Democrats from metro Detroit, started making calls around 1:30 p.m., urging Democrats to join the Wayne County Board of Canvassers meeting to ensure that the election results would actually be certified. Requests to join the Zoom call quickly went beyond capacity, with 300 people on the digital meeting when it started around 4:45 p.m.

After the first 2-to-2 vote, all of those participants stayed and the board opened up the meeting to public comment. A broad coalition — Detroit voters, clergy members, Middle Eastern immigrants, Black women, environmentalists, civil rights leaders and people who had worked at the polls and the absentee voting center — spoke out on the deadlock, repeatedly calling the Republican members racist and saying they were trying to disenfranchise Detroit voters.

“The Trump stain, the stain of racism that you, William Hartmann and Monica Palmer, have covered yourself in, is going to follow you throughout history,” said Ned Staebler, the chief executive of TechTown, a high-tech business incubator in Detroit and a poll challenger at T.C.F. Center in the city. He said the two Republican members would “forever be known in southeastern Michigan as two racists who did something so unprecedented that they disenfranchised hundreds of thousands of Black voters in the city of Detroit.”

The video call went mute for about five minutes at roughly 9 p.m., after about three hours of angry commentary by people dialing into the meeting. When the board came back, its members informed the crowd that they had just voted unanimously to certify the results and ordered Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson to conduct a thorough audit of the Wayne County results, especially the precincts with disparities. They didn’t explain how the reversal had come about.

“The people who were there told the truth,” Ms. Dingell said. “And it worked.”

A senior adviser to Mr. Biden, speaking on the condition of anonymity, dismissed the trouble at the canvassing board as one in a series of stunts by Mr. Trump and his allies to stave off the inevitable certification of a Biden victory at the Electoral College. 

A senior adviser to Mr. Trump, Justin Clark, said the campaign had played no role at the canvassing board. “This wasn’t us,” he said.

The Wayne canvassing board was not the last hurdle in the Michigan certification process. The Board of State Canvassers, which must deliver final state certification, consists of two Democrats, Jeannette Bradshaw and Julie Matuzak, and two Republicans, Norman D. Shinkle and Aaron Van Langevelde.

Mr. Shinkle’s wife, Mary Shinkle, filed an affidavit in support of a lawsuit the Trump campaign has brought in federal court alleging voting irregularities in Wayne County. The affidavit claimed, among other things, that poll workers had been “extremely rude and aggressive” to her and other observers, that they had not allowed her to look over their shoulders as they processed ballots, and that envelopes and ballot stubs had not been securely stored. The judge in the state case had dismissed similar affidavits as based on “an incorrect interpretation of events.”

Tuesday’s drama stoked fears among Democrats that Mr. Trump was working to force Michigan and other critical states to miss their certification deadlines so that Republican-controlled legislatures could appoint their own slates of pro-Trump delegates to the Electoral College, regardless of popular vote victories for Mr. Biden — moves that Mr. Biden’s lawyers have dismissed as legally futile.

Mike Shirkey, the Republican majority leader in the Michigan State Senate, said in an interview on Tuesday with Bridge Michigan, a local news outlet, that the Legislature would not move to appoint its own slate of electors.

“That’s not going to happen,” Mr. Shirkey said.

The state board is supposed to certify its results on Nov. 23. But Christopher Thomas, an adviser to the Detroit city clerk, said that the state would have until mid-December to submit its tallies to the Electoral College, which he said was plenty of time, even if the state board deadlocks, which would most likely force the fight into the courts.

“When they deadlock, the court generally tells them, ‘Your job is ministerial,’ which means you count the votes,” he said, “and you publish the certified results.”

Minutes after the board had reversed itself, Mr. Trump celebrated on Twitter, stating incorrectly that Michigan, and not just Wayne County, had “refused to certify the election results” and that “Having courage is a beautiful thing.”

But Ms. Benson quickly responded to the president, perhaps both on his timing and his tweet. 

“Wrong again,” she wrote. 





No.14 article:
U.S. to Drop Case Against Mexican Ex-Official to Allow Inquiry in Mexico

The announcement by the Justice Department was an abrupt turnaround a month after the high-profile arrest of a former defense minister.

The Justice Department has asked a federal judge to drop drug trafficking and corruption charges against a former Mexican defense minister to allow Mexican officials to investigate him, Attorney General William P. Barr announced Tuesday in an abrupt reversal a month after the official was arrested in Los Angeles.

The official, Gen. Salvador Cienfuegos Zepeda, had been Mexico’s defense minister from 2012 to 2018 and was accused of taking bribes in exchange for protecting cartel leaders. But Mr. Barr and Mexico’s attorney general, Alejandro Gertz Manero, stopped short in a statement of promising any charges in Mexico, and the move raised questions about why the Justice Department would hand over the matter to a country with a shoddy record of investigating high-profile cases tied to organized crime.

In a court filing, prosecutors acknowledged that the Trump administration had determined that preserving its relationship with Mexico prevailed over pursuing the case. “The United States has determined that sensitive and important foreign policy considerations outweigh the government’s interest in pursuing the prosecution of the defendant, under the totality of the circumstances, and therefore require dismissal of the case,” they wrote in asking a judge to dismiss the charges.

In an unusual move, the judge, Carol B. Amon of the United States District Court in Brooklyn, ordered the acting United States attorney there, Seth DuCharme, to personally appear before her at a hearing on Wednesday.

The Trump administration had taken an aggressive posture toward fighting organized crime and drugs from Mexico in recent years, persuading the authorities there to hand over dozens of suspects — many tied to the drug trade — to stand trial in the United States.

But the decision by American officials to arrest a former defense minister had rattled relations between the countries. It was the first time a high-ranking military leader had been detained on American soil on charges of drug-related corruption.

The quick reversal may be an attempt to preserve relations between the countries or a testament to the close relationship between President Trump and President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico. Unlike many foreign leaders, Mr. López Obrador has refused to recognize the electoral victory of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and has praised Mr. Trump’s treatment of Mexico, saying he “never made a decision without consulting us and always respected us.”

In a news conference on Tuesday, Mexico’s foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said that in the days after the arrest he spoke with both the United States ambassador to Mexico and Mr. Barr to convey his frustration at having been blindsided by the case.

“I let him know about the government’s displeasure at the lack of information,” Mr. Ebrard said, recounting his conversation with Mr. Barr.

Mexico later sent a letter to the American government reiterating that sentiment, Mr. Ebrard said.

Mr. Barr said Tuesday that as part of an agreement with the Mexican authorities, the Justice Department had provided the evidence it had collected against General Cienfuegos to investigators there. But the status of that investigation remains unclear. The general has not been charged, and if he is returned to Mexico, he could live freely until charges are brought.

General Cienfuegos had been arraigned this month in federal court in Brooklyn, pleading not guilty, and was awaiting trial.

The arrest made a huge splash in Mexico, dominating the headlines for days as word spread of the extent of the accusations that investigators made against General Cienfuegos.

Among them: Thousands of BlackBerry messages coordinating with cartel leaders, orchestrating meetings between military officials and organized crime figures, starting operations against rival traffickers. The American authorities said General Cienfuegos had helped transport narcotics and tipped a drug cartel off to American investigations into their operations.

“That is a pretty stunning turnaround,” said Jim Walden, a former assistant U.S. attorney in Brooklyn. “To bring such high-profile charges and then a month later to defer prosecution to a country where we have seen very mixed results in terms of its criminal justice system — that is an eyebrow raiser.”

Whether or not Mexico has the capacity to conduct such a prosecution remains to be seen. Impunity rates are extraordinarily high for even common crimes — more than 90 percent of homicides go unsolved nationwide.

To take on a top general with tremendous resources and support in a country with such fragile rule of law is likely to be difficult. Mexican authorities have bungled several investigations against drug cartel leaders, including some where American investigators ultimately took over and brought charges in the United States.

Mexico’s anger at the charges stemmed from largely being kept out of the loop on the case, officials have said. Mr. López Obrador himself expressed some surprise at the detention of a military leader who had long commanded respect inside Mexico.

Mexican officials have said privately that they were angry at a lack of communication by Justice Department officials on a case that had clearly taken time to build, given how closely the two countries collaborate in fighting organized crime.

The United States has successfully extradited and prosecuted many drug traffickers from Mexico with the nation’s blessing.

But with General Cienfuegos, there was little of the same cooperation. And in the aftermath of the indictment, officials in Mexico fought back against the accusations. The military, which plays an outsize role in the nation’s domestic security, also stood by its former commander.

The Justice Department charges against General Cienfuegos underscored the corruption that has touched the highest levels of the government in Mexico. General Cienfuegos served as defense minister to President Enrique Peña Nieto, who left office two years ago. And his arrest came 10 months after another top official — who once led the Mexican equivalent of the F.B.I. — was indicted in New York on charges of taking bribes while in office to protect the powerful Sinaloa drug cartel.





No.15 article:
In Georgia, a Republican Feud With Trump at the Center

Double-crossing. Accusations of lying and incompetence. And a bitter divide over whether to endorse President Trump’s false claims of fraud. The G.O.P. in Georgia has a messy feud unfolding, with two Senate seats up for grabs.

ATLANTA — There is no worse time for Georgia Republicans to be engulfed in a civil war. Their presidential candidate just narrowly lost the state, which has long been a conservative safe space, while two competitive runoff races are looming in January that could determine control of the U.S. Senate — and the direction of the country for the first part of this decade.

And yet the war has come, full of double-crossing, internecine accusations of lying and incompetence, and a bitter cleavage into factions over the question of how much fealty should be shown to President Trump — and the extent to which Republicans should amplify his false argument that the election in this fast-changing Southern state was stolen from him.

Republicans in Georgia and elsewhere are now faced with a stark choice. They can stick by Mr. Trump and his rash claims of fraud, and risk alienating moderate voters who may have had their fill of Trumpism — including the thousands who helped turn Georgia blue this month. Or they can break with Mr. Trump, invite his wrath and risk throwing the political equivalent of a wet blanket on conservative turnout for the Senate runoffs in January.

“This is clearly a divisive issue for Republicans in Georgia,” said Ashley O’Connor, a Republican strategist. “But the balance of the Senate is at stake here for Republicans so everybody would do better reminding themselves what’s at stake.”

The hostilities here involve a tangle of overlapping rivalries among statewide and national Republicans. Last week, in an extraordinary intraparty attack, the incumbent senators facing tougher-than-anticipated runoffs, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, released a joint statement calling on Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state, to step down. They said the election he oversaw — one in which Mr. Trump trailed Joseph R. Biden Jr. by about 14,000 votes — was an “embarrassment.” Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue are both ardent Trump supporters.

Mr. Raffensperger defended the integrity of the election process, and suggested that none of this would be an issue if the Republican candidates had managed to do better at the polls. He also lashed out at Representative Doug Collins, a Republican who is heading up Mr. Trump’s recount effort, labeling him a “liar.” Mr. Collins responded by calling Mr. Raffensperger incompetent.

The acrimony has burst past state lines and involved Mr. Trump and one of his staunchest allies, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Mr. Trump called Mr. Raffensperger a “RINO,” or Republican in Name Only, while continuing to make false claims about voting integrity in Georgia; along the way he tossed a few barbs at the state’s Republican governor, Brian Kemp, Mr. Trump’s ally and sometime-scapegoat.

And Mr. Raffensperger told The Washington Post on Monday that Mr. Graham had asked him about ways that ballots could potentially be disqualified, which the secretary of state portrayed as pressure to look harder for evidence of fraud. (Mr. Graham called that assertion “ridiculous.”)

The feuding in Georgia has provided a messy backdrop for Mr. Trump’s broader efforts to undermine the electoral system as a whole. It has also complicated the re-election efforts of Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler.

As long as both senators promote Mr. Trump’s conspiracy-mongering and refrain from acknowledging Mr. Biden’s victory, they are denied perhaps their best message to the state’s centrist swing voters: that Georgians can elect them as a check on Mr. Biden and prevent any liberal excesses that would come with full Democratic control of the capital.

What’s alarming to national Republicans is that the awkwardness in Georgia may only offer a preview of what the party might confront during the post-Trump era, which itself may be a misnomer.

With Mr. Trump signaling that he intends to try to keep control of the party and potentially seek the White House again in 2024, G.O.P. lawmakers and operatives are bracing for a period in which they’re effectively handcuffed to a former president who demands veto power in intraparty elections.

“It’s very possible, if not likely, that Trump will be in a kingmaker position for the 2022 primaries,” said Todd Harris, a longtime Republican ad-maker. “Whether people like it or not, this is Trump’s party. And nothing that happened on Election Day or since then has done anything to change that.”

While some Republicans, especially in the country’s reddest precincts, are delighted about the prospect of Mr. Trump running the party from exile at Mar-a-Lago, those who represent voters exhausted by the soon-to-be-former president are eager to move on.

“I want to be a party of ideas and values,” said Representative Don Bacon of Nebraska, who won re-election even as his Omaha-based district turned sharply against Mr. Trump. “We should not be a party of any one person. Unless it’s Lincoln.”

After Georgia’s Senate runoffs, the first test of Mr. Trump’s clout will come in another Southern state that has already undergone a similar political metamorphosis: Virginia. Republicans there are hoping to reclaim the governorship next year. But they are nervous their eventual nominee may have to demonstrate fidelity to the former president in a fashion that could ensure success in a primary but torpedo their general election prospects in a state Mr. Biden carried by 10 points.

More significant is 2022, when dozens of governorships, as well as control of the House and Senate, will be at stake. Republicans are concerned Mr. Trump will exact revenge on incumbents who have demonstrated insufficient loyalty to him — fears he fueled this week when he lashed out at Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, who used a national TV appearance to acknowledge that Mr. Biden had won the election.

“Who will be running for Governor of the Great State of Ohio?” Mr. Trump asked on Twitter, all but inviting a primary challenge against a broadly popular and decades-long officeholder in the state. “Will be hotly contested.”

It’s Georgia, though, where Republicans are currently having to eggshell-walk around their impetuous leader.

“Mitch knows he can’t take Trump off the table there,” Scott Reed, a longtime G.O.P. strategist, said of the calculations of Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader. “He needs him to energize the MAGA crowd.”

In Georgia, opinions are split over whether the intraparty feud will drag down Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler. There is a fear among some Republicans that disparaging the voting system might convince some Trump voters not to turn out, on the belief that their vote will not count. Others fear that Mr. Trump will continue to make a spectacle and dampen the enthusiasm of well-educated, high-propensity voters in the suburbs who have wearied of four years of tumult.

“You hate it when a family discussion gets outside the confines of the family,” said former Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican who served from 1993 to 2015. But Mr. Kingston and others believe that the party will heal up, and the rifts would soon become irrelevant as Republicans unify around the fear of a Democrat-run Senate.

“I don’t think it is something where people are going stay at home or vote for Jon Ossoff,” Mr. Kingston said, referring to Mr. Perdue’s Democratic challenger. “I just don’t see that happening. I think the Republican base is pretty riled up.”

Georgia is currently conducting an audit that involves counting all five million votes cast across 159 Georgia counties. Elections officials have said that only minor discrepancies have been discovered, with the exception of Floyd County, in the northwest, where about 2,600 uncounted votes had been discovered. The secretary of state’s office announced on Tuesday that it had found another discrepancy, in Fayette County, where the recount revealed 449 additional votes for Mr. Trump, narrowing Mr. Biden’s lead to 12,929 votes.

The Trump campaign issued a statement Tuesday pointing to these problems to say that “Recent revelations from Georgia’s ongoing statewide recount have shown that President Trump was absolutely correct to raise concerns.” Neither of the two discrepancies, however, is expected to change the outcome — a victory for Mr. Biden — when the recount is complete at midnight Wednesday.

While Mr. Trump remains the most popular Republican politician today, it is unclear how long that popularity will last, which makes it difficult to say now whether the governor, Mr. Kemp — who has remained a Trump fan through past bouts of presidential criticism — or Mr. Raffensperger will have a hard time with the Republican base when they are up for re-election in 2022.

“I think that the rift between those who are aligned with Trump and not aligned with Trump is going to end up playing itself out in some way shape or form but I think right now Trump and his allies have the upper hand,” said Andra Gillespie, an associate professor of political science at Emory University in Atlanta. “The question is: How long will their control of the Republican Party last?”





No.16 article:
Scary Is How You Act, Not Look, Disability Advocates Tell Filmmakers

“The Witches,” a film in which Anne Hathaway’s character has disfigured hands, has resurfaced the debate over depicting evil as disabled.

When “The Witches,” starring Anne Hathaway as the Grand High Witch, was released last month, a collective groan went up from people with disabilities.

The movie, based on a Roald Dahl children’s book, depicted Hathaway with hands that were wizened and disfigured, with two fingers and a thumb on each. The studio said her hands were meant to resemble cat claws, but they looked a whole lot like split hands, or ectrodactyly.

People with limb differences, including paralympians and a “Great British Baking Show” semifinalist, posted photos of their hands and arms on social media with the hashtag #NotAWitch. While Hathaway and Warner Bros. apologized, many saw the damage as already done. Here, yet again, was a villain with a disability, one of the oldest, and, for many, most damaging, storytelling tropes still around.

“This isn’t about being overly sensitive, a ‘snowflake’ or being too politically correct,” Briony May Williams, the British baking competitor, wrote on Instagram. “This is about showcasing limb differences as ugly, scary, gross and evil.”

The Joker. Lord Voldemort. All manner of scarred Bond villains and superhero antagonists. Dr. Poison. Freddy Krueger. The Phantom of the Opera. Shakespeare’s hunchbacked, butcherous Richard the Third.

For as long as there have been stages and screens, disability and disfigurement have been used as visual shorthand for evildoing — a nod to the audience that a character was a baddie to be feared. But disability rights advocates say this amounts not just to lazy storytelling but stereotyping, further marginalizing an already stigmatized community that is rarely represented onscreen. That “The Witches” is a family film, they say, made it worse.

“Playgrounds are where kids are sometimes the cruelest, and kids absorb what they learn, be it through stories we tell or what they learn from their parents,” said Penny Loker, a Canadian visible difference advocate and writer. “They have carte blanche to be cruel to people. I was called a monster, and I was called whatever the name of the monster was from the movie that was popular at that time.”

People with disabilities have had some success in challenging the stereotype. In 2018, spurred by a campaign for accurate portrayals of disabilities, the British Film Institute announced it would no longer fund films whose villains have scarred or disfigured faces.

Advocates are conscious of the criticism that the world has become too hypervigilant, and that the blowback against “The Witches” is another example of political correctness hammering away at artistic expression. Certainly what’s deemed acceptable has changed over time. There was scant criticism of Anjelica Huston’s ghoulish Grand High Witch in the 1990 film version, or for the 1980s character of Sloth, the monster in “The Goonies” (though, spoiler alert, he ended up being a good guy).

Yet even as stereotypical portrayals of other marginalized groups are increasingly recognized as problematic, the disfigured villain has proved harder to rout. In the forthcoming Bond film “No Time to Die,” Rami Malek and Christoph Waltz both play criminals who have facial disfigurements.

“Obviously, we don’t want a culture where everyone’s outraged about everything,” said Ashley Eakin, a writer and director who has Ollier disease and Maffucci syndrome, which affects the growth and formation of bones. “For so long, disability has been underrepresented, so if we only see disfigurement in a villain or character with no redeeming qualities, that’s an issue.”

One in four adults in the United States have a physical or mental impairment that sharply limits activities; a recent study found that less than 2 percent of characters with speaking parts in top movies from 2018 were disabled. While advocacy groups are working with studios to change that, critics say disabled characters still fall too often into predictable buckets, among them the villain or the victim that provides uplift for all, which some have nicknamed “inspiration porn.”

“Disabled people either play villains or happy snowflake angel babies,” said Maysoon Zayid, a comedian, writer and actor who has cerebral palsy. “We’re either charitable, inspirational, never do naughty things in our life. Or we’re murdering babies because we lost an eye in a dart accident.”

In Zayid’s view, there are limited circumstances under which it’s OK for a villain to be disabled or disfigured. One is when a disabled actor is playing the character, she said, so long as the disfigurement is not what makes them evil. The other is when the evil person being portrayed is a person who has a disability in real life, and even then, Zayid maintains, only a disabled actor should be cast.

Using disability or disfigurement as shorthand for evil goes back centuries in Western culture, said Angela Smith, director of disability studies at the University of Utah. In both lore and real life, physical differences have been read as warnings of danger, symbols of evil, or evidence of sinning or witchcraft. The eugenics movement tapped into this, measuring deviations from assumed norms, Smith said, and the presupposition that disability is something negative in need of fixing continues to inform modern medicine.

It’s also a long standing trope in fairy tales and fantasy and horror stories. Monsters are given characteristics — the way they talk, behave, look or move — that are meant to seem threatening or grotesque, Smith noted. This carries onscreen, where physical differences are often revealed dramatically as visual shorthand for evilness or immorality: think of Freddy Krueger’s brutally burned face in the “Nightmare on Elm Street” films. All of which,  Smith said, subtly shapes perceptions about an already marginalized community, whether “The Witches” intended to or not.

“Popular films like this send very clear messages: that disabled bodies are wrong or evil, that they don’t belong in ‘normal’ society or public view, that it is ‘natural’ to be disgusted by difference,”  Smith wrote in an email.

Warner Bros. has pleaded ignorance, saying it worked with the film’s artists to create a fresh interpretation of what Dahl described as “thin curvy claws, like a cat,” never intending for viewers to feel represented by the “fantastical, nonhuman creatures” onscreen. Hathaway, in her apology, said she had not associated her character’s hands with limb differences, and if she had, the depiction wouldn’t have happened at all.

Disability rights advocates said the whole matter could have been avoided if more disabled people were in the entertainment industry, be it in front of the camera or behind the scenes. “If there were writers, directors or other crew members with disabilities, they, might have seen it and said ‘Huh, maybe this is an issue,’” said Lauren Appelbaum, vice president of communications for RespectAbility, a nonprofit organization fighting the stigmatization of people with disabilities.

There is more leeway, and less potential to offend, when villains are clearly fantastical creatures, unreal figments of imagination, like the Shadow Monster in “Stranger Things.”

Still, the question for many remains why clearly human or human-esque villains need to have visual signifiers connoting evil at all. Many of the scariest horror film characters have been able-bodied. Like Samara, the unstoppable long-tressed dead girl in “The Ring,” or Jack Nicholson’s possessed writer in “The Shining.” Or — shudder — Javier Bardem in “No Country for Old Men,” with his creepy, pasty pallor and Dorothy Hamill bob. But even such depictions tread a fine line, threatening to lapse into the timeworn indictment of mental illness, à la Norman Bates in “Psycho.”

“Monstrosity is something in all of us,” Smith said, “not something out there in a bodily form different than our own.”





No.17 article:
Arolde de Oliveira, Conservative Brazilian Senator, Dies at 83

Senator Oliveira, who had the support of evangelicals, played down the coronavirus before succumbing to it.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Arolde de Oliveira used his background in electrical engineering to rise to powerful positions in Brazil’s government-run telecommunications sector during the country’s long years of dictatorship, 1964-85.

He moved on to politics, riding the wave of Brazil’s burgeoning evangelical movement to nine terms as a congressman. And in 2018, he was one of six ultraconservative senators elected on President Jair Bolsonaro’s coattails.

After the coronavirus pandemic hit in the spring, Senator Oliveira fell in line with the president’s dismissiveness of the disease. The senator publicly disparaged social distancing as useless, contended that the number of cases was being inflated by the news media, and touted chloroquine as a potential cure, despite evidence to the contrary.

He was hospitalized in Rio de Janeiro with Covid-19 in September and died of it on Oct. 21, according to his website, making him Brazil’s first sitting senator to succumb to the virus. He was 83.

Several retired senators in Brazil have died of the disease, and President Bolsonaro contracted the virus but recovered. Senator Oliveira made no public statements after falling ill.

Arolde de Oliveira was born on March 11, 1937, in São Luiz Gonzaga, in Rio Grande do Sul state. His father, Horácio Gonçalves de Oliveira, was a subsistence farmer. His mother, Margarida Barbosa Gonçalves, taught Arolde to read before sending him off at age 11 to a military boarding school in Porto Alegre, the state capital.

He went on to the prestigious Agulhas Negras Military Academy in Resende, in Rio de Janeiro state, and graduated with the rank of captain in 1959. He received degrees in electronical engineering, economics and quantum mechanics.

Mr. Oliveira left the military in 1967 to become head of operations for the Brazilian national telecommunications company, Embratel. He later served as secretary of telecommunications in the government of President Emílio Garrastazu Médici.

Mr. Oliveira left the government in 1981, the same year he and his family left the Roman Catholic Church to become evangelical Baptists. It was a time of steady growth for Brazil’s evangelical community; its portion of the population rose from 5 percent in 1970 to just over 30 percent in 2020. Evangelicals now form a potent political force there.

Mr. Oliveira organized, at Rio’s Maracanã stadium, an evangelical rally in 1982 that drew 100,000 people, including then-President João Figueiredo. He made his first run for the National Congress that year and lost, but was seated anyway as a substitute.

As a young congressman, Mr. Oliveira proposed 111 articles to the country’s 1988 Constitution, of which 24 made it into the final text, mostly on matters involving science, technology and communications. He was instrumental in the privatization of Brazil’s government-run telecommunications sector in the 1990s. As permitted in Brazil, he worked as Rio de Janeiro’s transportation secretary and later as secretary of labor for Rio de Janeiro state while serving in Congress.

Mr. Oliveira was also the owner of MK Music, one of the country’s largest gospel record labels, and Rio’s El Shadday FM radio station. His daughter Marina is a popular gospel singer.

Along with her, Mr. Oliveira’s survivors include his wife, Yvelise Assis Vieira, and five grandchildren. His son Benoni, born in 1965, died in an ultralight aircraft crash in 2010.





No.18 article:
Dr. Céline Gounder, Adviser to Biden, on the Next Covid Attack Plan

Schools are essential while restaurants are not, said Dr. Gounder. And manufacturers may soon be ordered to produce protective gear for health workers.

When President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. takes office in January, he will inherit a pandemic that has convulsed the country. His transition team last week announced a 13-member team of scientists and doctors who will advise on control of the coronavirus.

One of them is Dr. Céline Gounder, an infectious disease specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and assistant professor at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine. In a wide-ranging conversation with The New York Times, she discussed plans to prioritize racial inequities, to keep schools open as long as possible, and to restore the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as the premier public health agency in the world.

The incoming administration is contemplating state mask mandates, free testing for everyone and invocation of the Defense Production Act to ramp up supplies of protective gear for health workers. Indeed, that will be “one of the first executive orders” of the Biden administration, she said.

Below are edited excerpts from our conversation.

The coronavirus task force is the team the vice president leads within the current administration. I’m a part of the Biden-Harris advisory board. Then there’s the internal transition team, which is much bigger. The transition team has been developing a Covid blueprint, the nuts and bolts of the operations, and this is something they’ve been working on for months.

The purpose of the advisory board is really to have a group of people who think big, creatively and in interdisciplinary ways — to be a second set of eyes on the blueprint they’ve come up with, and also to function as a liaison with state and local health departments.

We’re going to have, at a minimum, a weekly meeting as a group. But in addition to that, we may be asked to brief members of the transition team and the president-elect and vice president-elect. I’ve already been on two of those briefings.

They’re asking very insightful questions, very thoughtful questions, which demonstrate that they are sensitive to who has really been hit hard, who has suffered. In terms of awareness of the technologies, they understand more than I ever thought a politician would understand. Like asking what would be the appropriate timing and target populations for monoclonal antibodies. For somebody who doesn’t follow these things, that is a really good question.

Race disparities are definitely going to be a through line for all the plans — for example, with respect to testing, making sure that you are locating testing facilities in communities of color. They have not been adequately served, and the lines to wait to get tested, the turnaround times, have not been equitable.

Another area that is really of interest is Indigenous people. They are often misclassified in terms of their race and ethnicity, and that makes it very difficult to do analyses to figure out what are the trends in those communities and to target interventions accordingly. Being really attentive to detailed data surveillance, and using that to inform how we address these disparities, is going to be very, very central.

If you have widespread community transmission, there may come a tipping point where you do need to go back to virtual schooling. But I think the priority is to try to keep schools open as much as possible, and to provide the resources for that to happen.

From an epidemiologic perspective, we know that the highest-risk settings are restaurants, bars, gyms, nail salons and also indoor gatherings — social gatherings and private settings.

I would consider school an essential service. Those other things are not essential services. The smarter we are about being very responsive to trends in transmission — to closing indoor restaurants sooner — the longer you’re likely to be able to keep schools open.

We know that the risk of transmission in schools is not zero, but they’re not amplifying transmission the way some of these other places are.

We need to be supporting those businesses, whether it’s the restaurant owners and the people working in those restaurants, because it is not fair that they are bearing a very heavy brunt of the economic fallout from this.

From the beginning we have been — and I’ve seen it firsthand — in a rationing mode. And now things are getting worse again, so that is a very high priority. I think that’s going to be one of the very first executive actions that Mr. Biden would be taking.

The approach is going to be much more along the lines of giving control back to the C.D.C. There’s recognition that the C.D.C. is the premier public health agency in the world. And while their role has been diminished during this current crisis, they play a very important role in all this.

It’s really going to be about rebuilding public health infrastructure. Since 2008, there have been massive budget cuts, staffing losses. And so some of it will be around that, and some of it will be around tech infrastructure and building more robust surveillance systems and dashboards.

I have myself worked on Indian reservations in the Southwest, and I know some of my colleagues are really struggling right now. Once things really start to trend up again, they simply don’t have the I.C.U. beds — not just on the reservation, but in any kind of proximity in the state — to transfer people to. And once your hospital capacity gets saturated, case fatality rates shoot up.

I don’t have a good answer for you right now as to what we can do right away. But it’s definitely on the radar.

The issue with the antigen test is how well it performs in asymptomatic people. What we’ve seen in some cases is that the performance characteristics are just not that great, so I think that needs to be better assessed and studied.

You do also need separate regulatory pathways, one for a public health surveillance kind of test, one for a clinical diagnostic test. The sensitivity of the surveillance test does not need to be as high, especially if it’s cheap, and something you can be doing frequently, repeatedly.

Your local doctor’s office is not going to have the deep-freeze capability that, at least for the Pfizer vaccine, you’re going to need. They’re not necessarily going to have the tech systems to track and call people back to make sure they get their second doses.

That kind of capacity really resides either in public health departments or in the private commercial sector, like CVS and Walgreens. So it’s really going to require collaboration with them.

That’s clearly a frustration. The normal way of doing business has not been the case for the entire administration. So why start now?

I do think it’s important to remember, though, that you have very experienced, seasoned people on the Biden team. These are not people who are new to federal government.

It’s not just about the federal government. So much of public health happens at the state and local level, so a lot of the communication in the coming weeks is going to be with governors, state and local public health officials. For things like tests and diagnostics, the monoclonal antibodies and vaccines, those are really conversations with the private sector.

So yes, it is an obstacle. It’s rather unfortunate, but the team really does still plan to be prepared to jump right in on Day 1 and address the crisis.





No.19 article:
Trump Admits Defea … Never Mind

Marchers assembled in the nation’s capital to show their support for the president, but top Republicans are increasingly urging him to accept the election’s result. It’s Monday, and this is your politics tip sheet. Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox every weekday.

Trump supporters cheered as his motorcade departed Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va., yesterday.

Trump put a harsh immigration policy at the center of his 2016 campaign, and as president he has largely followed through on that promise.

Biden, by contrast, made his opposition to Trump’s draconian border policies central to his campaign message — but he has stopped short of embracing many of progressives’ biggest hopes, including the dismantling of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Our reporter Zolan Kanno-Youngs interviewed over a dozen Biden transition advisers and current and former officials at the Department of Homeland Security, seeking clues into what priorities the incoming administration will bring to the department.

Zolan answered a few questions about what he found out.

Donald Trump centered much of his 2016 campaign on immigration issues, and many of his major initiatives as president ran through the Department of Homeland Security. How much of an effect did Trump have on the department’s mission and its day-to-day operations? Would you say he’s been successful at carrying out his policy goals?

President Trump has had immense impact on the Department of Homeland Security. The president centered his campaign on the border wall and restricting immigration into the United States, and those themes carried over to his term in office. The department was created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks with a broad array of responsibilities, responding to natural disasters, terrorism and threats to aviation, maritime security and cybersecurity. 

But for much of his term, Trump has had a simple measure of success for the agency: lowering the number of illegal crossings at the border and building his wall. He has pulled his secretaries away from trips to discuss other security matters at the last minute to discuss (and at times berate about) the border. He repeatedly questioned how fast they were constructing the wall, siphoning billions from the Defense Department in the process and directing his officials to file lawsuits against private landowners.

And while the wall is not built from sea to shining sea, Trump has without a doubt changed the U.S. immigration system. A maze of policies have created an “invisible wall,” restricting the ability of asylum seekers to remain in the country. The refugee system has been gutted. And when he refocused his campaign against protesters to frame himself as a “law and order” president, he turned to D.H.S. again. Many of the tactical agents sent to Portland to clash with demonstrators were from the department.

Activists and proponents of immigrants’ rights have long called for the dismantling of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is housed within D.H.S. Are such ideas something that a President Biden will entertain?

No. The president-elect has never called for abolishing any of those agencies. Don’t expect the new president to move any D.H.S. agencies to other departments, either (The Trump administration proposed moving the Secret Service to Treasury, and there have been calls for Biden to consider moving Citizenship and Immigration Services, the nation’s legal immigration agency, to the Justice Department).

One adviser working on the transition told me the belief was that the better approach was to install the right people in these agencies. Biden’s immigration platform does call for independent oversight over ICE and Customs and Border Protection, as well as increased training for the personnel.

You also write that Biden plans to more fully integrate climate-related concerns into D.H.S.’s operations. Why is that so relevant to the kind of work that the department is doing?

Biden’s immigration platform calls for tackling the “root causes” of migration. Most of the migrant families who have crossed the border have sought protection from poverty, violence or persecution from the Northern Triangle region of Central America. Biden’s advisers have discussed relying on climate science to predict migration from places like Guatemala, where coffee rust has disrupted the crops farmers rely on.

The Homeland Security secretary can also lobby others in the administration to invest State Department aid into the region to improve the economies there. The Trump administration froze such aid in 2019 to pressure the governments in the region to do more to curtail illegal migration.

This week, on Tuesday and Wednesday, DealBook is holding its first Online Summit. Join us as we welcome high-profile newsmakers, including Pfizer’s Albert Bourla, JPMorgan’s Jamie Dimon, Dr. Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, SoftBank’s Masayoshi Son, Senator Elizabeth Warren and more. We will address the pivotal questions of the moment — and the future — in business, policy and culture.

Watch free from anywhere in the world. Register now.





No.20 article:
The County With No Coronavirus Cases? No Longer

MENTONE, Texas — Zoom in on the glowing red map of ever-escalating coronavirus cases in the continental United States and for months you would find a county that had been spared. It remained that way until it was the only one, from coast to coast.

Like a lone house standing after a tornado has leveled a town, Loving County, in the shadeless dun plains of oil-rich West Texas, had not recorded a single positive case of the coronavirus.

It is something that people in the county were proud of. They talked about it. They lived by it.

“You can take that off!” Chuck Flushe told a visitor in a face mask at the window of his food truck as a pair of barefaced oil field workers milled about. “We don’t have the virus here.”

If only it were true.

Though never included in the county’s official reports, at least one positive test for the coronavirus was recorded over the summer at a local health clinic in Mentone, the county’s only town, according to a worker at the clinic.

And then on Tuesday, state officials reported, for the first time, the inevitable. Positive tests for the coronavirus in Loving County. Three of them.

Now every corner of the United States mainland could be said to officially have been touched by the coronavirus.

The abrupt addition of confirmed cases — hours after an article The New York Times published online called attention to at least one positive case — could not immediately be explained by county officials.

“That’s news to me,” said Steve Simonsen, the county attorney. “I’m wondering if they’re counting the people you talk about and the two residents who had it and caught it somewhere else.”

One positive case not previously reported involved a man who lived at what everyone in this part of Texas calls a “man camp” — temporary housing for transient oil and gas field workers — near the center of town when he became sick. But since he was not a permanent resident, and was quickly shuttled home, Loving County had not reported the case at the time.

Ten months after the first infection was recorded in the United States, the coronavirus has made its way into every corner of the country. More than 11 million people have tested positive for the virus, which causes Covid-19, with more than 164,000 new cases emerging on Monday alone.

Now even rural areas, which escaped the brunt of the pandemic early on, have become serious centers of new infections. In recent months, a diminishing number of small, remote counties, including Loving County, remained the only places in the continental United States with no positive cases. (Kalawao County in Hawaii, which has even fewer people than Loving County, still has reported no known cases.)

One by one, each began to record infections. Esmeralda County in Nevada reported its first case last week. Then came Loving County.

Those who live in Loving County full-time — the U.S. mainland’s smallest population, with no more than 169 people stretched across 669 square miles of sand, mesquite and greasewood — credit their relative antiviral success to the landscape and the sparseness of the population. They joke that they were socially distant before it was cool.

“It’s a desert town. That’s what it is,” said Mr. Simonsen, the county attorney. “We don’t speak in terms of running how many cows per acre, it’s how many cows per section. A section is 640 acres.”

But despite the wide-open space, the county is busy. The census counts 10 times the number of workers in the county as residents. Trucks hauling equipment for the oil fields or big boxes of sand for fracking groan through town in a constant, noisy stream. Plastic trash and bits of blown truck tire litter the roadside.

When one drives through the county at night, lights from the oil and gas operations flicker brightly across the landscape, creating the mirage of a distant city that can never quite be reached. “You top that hill and it looks like you’re driving into Dallas or Fort Worth,” Mr. Simonsen said.

Men — and it is mostly men who work in Loving County — shuffle in and out of the only shop for miles, a relatively new convenience store where the line for beer and single-serving meals can stretch to the rear refrigerators during the 5 p.m. rush.

“Restrooms Coming Soon,” boasts an all-caps banner hanging outside. On a recent weekday evening, one shopper wore a cowboy hat. More had on mesh trucker caps. None were in masks. Neither were the clerks. The county is exempt from a statewide mandate.

But even if the virus is not front of mind in Loving County, it has changed life here.

The pandemic caused a downturn as oil prices dropped, reducing the number of workers in town. The man camps were less full. Hotel rooms that just months ago cost $350 a night in Pecos, the nearest large town, were now going for a third of the price.

“With the pandemic, a lot of stuff shut down,” said Ricardo Galan, 38, who works for a supply company that he said had dropped from 50 employees to 12.

Mr. Galan, from Eagle Pass near Texas’ border with Mexico, said he usually spent about 12 days working and then got four days off. He counted himself lucky to be only five hours away from his family. Some workers come from much further, like Utah or Louisiana.

While in Loving County, Mr. Galan lived in a man camp on his company’s property, sharing a small living space with another worker. He said the workers there practiced social distancing. “On our yard, nobody’s gotten sick from Covid,” he said.

But, he added, no one was being tested unless they had symptoms. “They don’t test you just to test you,” Mr. Galan said. For that, workers must travel to larger cities like Odessa or Midland.

A private health clinic offers coronavirus tests and performs around 20 per week, according to Anthony Luk, 28, a paramedic there. Mr. Luk, like most workers in the county, lives in a trailer — his is attached to the clinic — and stays for two-week stints between periods of rest at home in Lubbock.

During his time there, he said, he knew of two positive tests for the coronavirus: in August, involving the man camp near the center of Mentone, and another taken at a job site outside of Loving County.

The August case raised alarm at the county courthouse because clerks and other county workers often go to the camp for free lunch on workdays.

“We’re made very known when something like that happens here,” said Angela Medlin, 31, a deputy county clerk who moved with her husband and four children to Mentone last year. “I know of at least one guy who was sick, but they took him back to where he’s from,” she said, recalling the situation over the summer.

In town, residents draw a bright line between themselves and the visiting workers. Those who live in the county full-time treat one another like members of an extended family bubble.

At the courthouse, a square brick building from 1935, the doors are now locked to outsiders and the county employees do not wear masks. When someone comes to visit, like a landman looking into new oil or gas leases, the person must have an appointment and wear a mask.

A Halloween party for the children in town attracted about 60 people and included temperature checks at the door. People felt comfortable not wearing masks.

But there are few such gatherings in Mentone, where the county’s history of oil booms and busts can be read in hollow rusting storage tanks, empty corrugated homes and the cracked plaster of the only schoolhouse, unused for decades.

“When we got here, I said, ‘Punk, how long are we going to live in this godforsaken place?’” recalled Mary Belle Jones, 89, who moved to Loving County in 1953 with her husband, Elgin Jones.

There were rattlesnakes in the yard of their first home, she remembered, and a toilet out back. They had five children, moved to a bigger house, accumulated acre upon acre of land and never left.

Mr. Jones, known to all by his childhood nickname, went from the oil fields to become sheriff for nearly three decades. “He was known as the only sheriff in Texas you could call Punk and get away with it,” Mrs. Jones said.

Their children went to the local schoolhouse until the sixth grade. But it ran short of students, and then closed. Children now ride a bus at 6 a.m. to the next county east.

Several members of the Jones family stayed in Loving County. One son, Skeet Jones, is the top county executive. His sister is the county clerk. Mr. Simonsen, the county attorney, married into the family.

“She was spending more time here than she was at home so we decided to make the move,” Mr. Simonsen, a lawyer who last lived in Houston, said of his wife. “I knew there wasn’t a lawyer here in town, so.”

For Leroy Medlin, 33, moving to Loving County was the fulfillment of a dream. Not so for Angela, his wife, who had to be convinced.

“She was throwing a fit at just the idea of it,” he said, seated in a wicker recliner on his porch at the far edge of town, a cowboy hat on a table at his side.

Mr. Medlin, who was fired from his job as a San Antonio police detective for lying to justify car pursuits and later lost his job in town as a deputy sheriff, works as a cowboy on the Jones family ranch.

“I kind of like to go back in time. That’s why I’m out here,” he said.

Some residents said they knew about cases of the coronavirus in the county, but because they were limited to visiting workers, the county long considered itself to be virus free — if on a technicality.

Most tests conducted in the county have involved oil and gas field workers, according to Mr. Luk, at the local clinic. And those would be recorded in the employees’ county of residence, not in Loving County, said Lara Anton, a state Health Department spokeswoman.

But even before Tuesday’s news, Loving County residents conceded that their perfect record was probably no longer perfect.

“To say that we’re the only place in the United States that’s never had a Covid case, I don’t think that’s true,” Mr. Simonsen said. “It’s a nice little bit of hype, but certainly it’s been here.”





No.21 article:
Does Remdesivir Actually Work Against Covid-19?

The evidence shows only that the drug might be effective. That once wasn’t enough for F.D.A. approval.

When the Food and Drug Administration approves a new treatment or vaccine, as doctors we are assured that rigorous studies have proven it to be safe and effective. But the F.D.A.’s haphazard issuance of emergency use authorizations for Covid-19 treatments like hydroxychloroquine and convalescent plasma, whose potential benefits have not yet been backed up by data, has undermined this trust.

Early in the pandemic, the agency awarded an emergency use authorization for the antiviral drug remdesivir, based on evidence suggesting that it may be effective. Then last month, despite conflicting evidence, the F.D.A. prematurely granted its first full approval for Covid-19 treatment to remdesivir, now marketed as Veklury.

In early October, The New England Journal of Medicine published a report on the results of a trial funded by the National Institutes of Health that found that remdesivir decreased recovery time in Covid-19 patients who were hospitalized with less severe illness, but did not curb mortality. Other studies have shown no benefit, including the World Health Organization’s Solidarity trial, released as a preprint on Oct. 15.

Based on these results, the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine is now recommending that the drug not be routinely used in hospitalized Covid-19 patients. Infectious disease experts have stated that after examining all available evidence, we can reasonably conclude only that remdesivir may work.

Some have argued that the approval of Veklury is justified even if it is only mildly effective because there are no other proven therapies for Covid-19. This fails to acknowledge, however, the proven effectiveness of drugs like dexamethasone, a cheap and widely used steroid.

It also ignores years of assault on F.D.A. evidentiary standards, accelerated by the passage in 2016 of the 21st-Century Cures Act. This legislation, which sped up the F.D.A.’s approval process, was based on unfounded claims that the agency was too slow and hindered patients’ access to lifesaving drugs.

The F.D.A. is now increasingly approving new drugs based on weaker evidence, relying on “surrogate measures” like changes in tumor size in lieu of more meaningful clinical outcomes such as reduced mortality or hospitalizations. Recent cancer drugs, for example, have been approved without evidence of improving overall survival. Weaker standards are a boon to pharmaceutical companies, but they can also depress the development of truly innovative and effective treatments.

The F.D.A. has tried to offset its accelerated approval of Veklury by asking its maker, Gilead, to complete 29 post-market studies to further examine the drug’s effectiveness and safety. This is more than three to four times the number typically requested. It’s unclear, however, if these studies will ever be done. One report found that, five to six years following approval, only half of post-market studies had been completed and one-fifth hadn’t even been started.

Veklury’s approval could also have a chilling effect on the F.D.A.’s ability to issue emergency use authorizations for other potentially effective Covid-19 treatments, as the agency’s guidance requires there be “no adequate, approved and available alternative” for the disease. Just last week, the F.D.A. granted an authorization to an antibody treatment called bamlanivimab, for use in non-hospitalized patients with Covid-19 who are at the highest risk of developing severe disease. This may have been possible only because Veklury was approved specifically for hospitalized patients.

Veklury’s questionable effectiveness is even more problematic given the drug’s price. A course costs $3,120 — a huge price tag, and one that ignores the substantial public investment in the drug’s development.

Remdesivir predates this pandemic. It was first considered as a potential treatment for Ebola, and was developed through a longstanding partnership between the U.S. Army and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It was repurposed for Covid-19 after multimillion-dollar trials sponsored by the N.I.H. suggested it could work against coronaviruses.

Despite Veklury’s questionable effectiveness, the F.D.A. has also awarded Gilead a “priority review voucher” worth $75 to $100 million. This voucher can be used by Gilead or sold to a different manufacturer to hasten review of another drug application. This would perpetuate the entry of other treatments that are hurriedly reviewed and, like remdesivir, may be of uncertain benefit.

The dangers posed by the F.D.A.’s rush in approving Veklury are compounded by the chaos of presumed political interference by the Trump administration. But the weakening of F.D.A. standards will most likely continue under the Biden administration. When he was vice president, Joe Biden strongly endorsed the 21st-Century Cures Act, and some in Congress are already pushing for its next iteration, Cures 2.0.

If passed, it would further erode the F.D.A.’s evidentiary standards. Among Cures 2.0 proposals is moving the basis for approval away from randomized, controlled trials, long considered the gold standard of evidence, and instead relying more on observational evidence and surrogate measures.

It is hard to ask people to wait for the evidence when there’s a treatment that could hold some promise, especially during a devastating pandemic. But the hasty approval of expensive new treatments like remdesivir isn’t the solution. Doctors like us must feel confident that the drugs approved by the F.D.A. are worth prescribing to our patients.





No.22 article:
Corbyn Reinstated by Labour After He Walks Back Anti-Semitism Remarks

The decision, coming three weeks after the party suspended Jeremy Corbyn, the ex-Labour leader, provoked anger from some British Jews, who said his attempts to clarify his comments were inadequate.

LONDON — Britain’s main opposition party, Labour, readmitted its former leader Jeremy Corbyn after he tepidly reversed course on comments last month suggesting that problems with the party’s handling of anti-Semitism allegations had been “overstated.”

The decision, coming three weeks after Labour suspended Mr. Corbyn over those comments, provoked immediate anger from some groups of British Jews, who said his attempts to walk back his comments from last month were weak.

But while Mr. Corbyn’s readmission, decided on by a panel of the party’s governing body, means that he will return to being a member of the Labour Party, it was not immediately clear on Tuesday night if he would be allowed to return to the party’s benches in Parliament as a Labour lawmaker.

That decision is reserved for Mr. Corbyn’s successor, Keir Starmer, who faced intense pressure from some Jewish groups and some Labour lawmakers on Tuesday night not to allow Mr. Corbyn back into the party’s ranks in Parliament. (Since the suspension, Mr. Corbyn has retained his seat in Parliament, but lost his affiliation with Labour.)

Mr. Corbyn’s suggestion that the party’s problems with anti-Semitism were overblown came last month after a British human rights watchdog found that Labour bore responsibility for “unlawful acts of harassment and discrimination” against Jewish members on his watch. The party had long faced accusations that it had dithered in its response to allegations of anti-Semitism and interfered on behalf of Mr. Corbyn’s political allies.

After the release of the human rights report, Mr. Corbyn said the yearslong scandal had been overblown by the media and his political opponents.

“One anti-Semite is one too many, but the scale of the problem was also dramatically overstated for political reasons by our opponents inside and outside the party, as well as by much of the media,” he wrote at the time. “That combination hurt Jewish people and must never be repeated.”

On Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn released a  statement in an effort “to clear up any confusion about what I had meant.”

“To be clear, concerns about anti-Semitism are neither ‘exaggerated’ nor ‘overstated,’” Mr. Corbyn wrote in the newly released statement, which he said he had also submitted to the Labour Party shortly after he was suspended. “The point I wished to make was that the vast majority of Labour Party members were and remain committed anti-racists deeply opposed to anti-Semitism.”

Some Jewish groups in Britain saw Mr. Corbyn’s suspension as the clearest signal from Mr. Starmer, a former prosecutor and human rights lawyer, about the party’s changed approach to rooting out anti-Semitism and repairing ties with British Jews.

But casting out Mr. Corbyn, a longtime torchbearer for Labour’s hard left, also risked plunging the party back into the vicious factional disputes that became its trademark during his five years in charge, which ended earlier this year.

While Labour may have hoped that reinstating Mr. Corbyn would restore a measure of equanimity to the party, it did not immediately seem to have that effect. Some groups of British Jews long opposed to Mr. Corbyn’s leadership reacted angrily, and some Labour lawmakers were said to oppose the decision, too.

“Any reasonable and fair-minded observer would see Jeremy Corbyn’s statement today as insincere and wholly inadequate,” the Jewish Labour Movement said in a statement. “Once again we find ourselves having to remind the Labour Party that Jeremy Corbyn is not the victim of Labour anti-Semitism — Jewish members are.”

In a statement on Tuesday night, Mr. Starmer did not directly address Mr. Corbyn’s readmission into the party. But he said that the former leader’s comments last month were “wrong” and that he would work to establish an independent process for litigating complaints of anti-Semitism within the party as soon as possible next year.

“I will not allow a focus on one individual to prevent us from doing the vital work of tackling anti-Semitism,” he said.

The report by Britain’s Equalities and Human Rights Commission, an independent official watchdog group whose recommendations are legally enforceable, found that Labour’s political leaders had interfered in the party’s own investigations of anti-Semitic incidents. Those included a complaint against Mr. Corbyn for once defending a mural that featured grotesque caricatures of hooknosed Jewish bankers.

The watchdog group also described the party as having created a culture that could, at times, be seen as tolerant of anti-Semitism and accused two former party officials of anti-Semitic comments that it said amounted to unlawful harassment.

Those problems helped sink Mr. Corbyn’s bid to defeat Prime Minister Boris Johnson in a general election in December.

Some groups of British Jews were withering in their reaction to Mr. Corbyn’s attempts to clarify his comments on Tuesday.

“The Jewish community does not accept this pathetic non-apology from Jeremy Corbyn,” Marie van der Zyl, the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said in a statement. “Keir Starmer rightly called the day of the release of the E.H.R.C. report a ‘day of shame.’ Jeremy Corbyn’s response, by contrast, was shameless.”





No.23 article:
Irvin Baxter, Who Preached the End Was Near, Dies at 75

He built a book, DVD and broadcasting business based on endtime prophecies he perceived in the Bible. He died of coronavirus, which he implied had been sent by God.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

“We are on the brink of the greatest prophetic fulfillment in 2,000 years,” the Rev. Irvin Baxter Jr., the founder of Endtime Ministries, told listeners as he opened an April episode of “End of the Age,” his television program. “It appears that all the pieces of the puzzle are in place for the final seven years to Armageddon to begin yet this year.”

Mr. Baxter had spent decades finding signs of an impending final judgment in an amalgam of Bible verses and current events. His April prediction was based on, among other things, his reading of developments in the Israeli-Palestinian accord being pushed by the Trump administration.

“The way it appears to me that it’s coming down,” he told his listeners, “it is very likely that you and me and the entire world will enter the final seven years to Armageddon yet in 2020.”

Mr. Baxter, who was 75, died on Nov. 3. An announcement by Endtime Ministries said the cause was complications of Covid-19, a disease that, in other broadcasts, Mr. Baxter had implied was a punishment from God for the world’s sins, which to him included homosexuality, abortion and unmarried couples living together.

The announcement did not say where he died. The ministry’s headquarters is in Plano, Tex.

Irvin Lee Baxter Jr. was born on July 8, 1945, and grew up in Richmond, Ind., in the east-central part of the state near the Ohio border. His father was a Pentecostal minister and pastor of the Oak Park Church there.

One night in his teens, when listening to a traveling preacher at a revival meeting, Irvin Baxter was overcome.

“I heard someone speaking in tongues over the microphone system,” he said, and realized that the voice was his. He had found his calling.

He became a traveling evangelist at 19, and by 1973 he was pastor of the Oak Park Church, a position he held for more than 30 years. But he found himself devoting an increasing amount of energy to what he saw as a calling: to alert the world to prophecies that he thought were soon to be fulfilled.

In 1991, he founded Endtime Magazine. He also began a radio program and started marketing DVDs and other materials to sell his vision of the future. He left Richmond and the Oak Park Church and moved his Endtime business to Texas in 2005.

Mr. Baxter’s broadcasts were carried by various outlets, including the Trinity Broadcasting Network. He was quoted in news articles whenever end-times fears surged — in 2003 as the United States prepared to invade Iraq, in 2018 during a celestial phenomenon known as a blood moon.

His reach was moderate compared with that of famous televangelists like Billy Graham. One of Mr. Baxter’s regular “prophecy conferences” in Texas drew 2,500 people; Mr. Graham routinely filled stadiums. The Endtime Ministries Facebook page shows 211,000 followers; the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association has 2.5 million.

Mr. Baxter was an ardent supporter of President Trump and his policies. That included Mr. Trump’s playing down of the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic.

“When you talk about the coronavirus, the choice is this: We either open back up as far as we can as fast as we can, or we close everything down,” he said in a program broadcast on Oct. 23. “If you close everything down like we did once — it had disastrous effects. President Trump is rightly saying we can’t do that again. The cure is worse than the disease.”

Mr. Baxter was hospitalized four days later, the ministry said.

He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Judith; three daughters, Karla Denise Sistrunk, Kara Michelle McPeak and Jana Gayle Robbins; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.





No.24 article:
To Protect Her Parents, She’s Keeping Her Daughter Out of School





No.25 article:
How Does Ina Do It?

EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. — Ina Garten’s house, on a side street in the stately, manicured village of East Hampton, was just the way you’d want it to be on a sunny morning in October. By which I mean the lawn was a beautiful rumpled green, and the garden was full of cherry tomatoes, and she was wearing a loose button-down shirt and smiling as she brought me coffee in a hotel-style silver carafe. All appeared just as it does on her television show, “Barefoot Contessa,” that has been shot here since 2002.

And I was there this fall because of a sneaking suspicion that, although Ms. Garten — Ina to her fans — has become a queen of quarantine cuisine, we don’t exactly cook from the same pantry.

For a person who’d been enclosed in a New York City apartment for seven months, with one end of the kitchen table functioning as my office and the other end as dining room, wandering through her “barn” — a lofty kitchen with two dishwashers and 25 feet of limestone counter space; a sunlit reading room full of cookbooks and couches; a spotless, roomy storeroom lined with fully organized staples — was like floating in a soothing dream.

The Contessa’s quarantine is not our quarantine. Her kitchen is not our kitchen. But this year, her Thanksgiving is pretty much our Thanksgiving: tiny and improvised, without the guardrails of tradition we usually rely on for a holiday dinner.

That could mean her recipe for roasted turkey breast infused with the flavors of Italian porchetta: garlic, fennel seed, sage and rosemary. The lemony mashed potatoes that she reverse-engineered from a restaurant dish that caught her fancy in Paris. In any case, she will be sticking with her perennial no-stuffing policy, making a savory bread pudding instead.

“I hope people will give themselves permission to do whatever they want this year,” she said.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

Ms. Garten, 72, has published 12 cookbooks in 18 years, produced 18 seasons of her show on Food Network, and steadily built up a following that puts her among the most popular culinary figures of the last two decades.

Her official fan club’s page on Facebook is not a group that just anyone can join. First, supplicants must make it clear that they are part of the Ina personality cult by answering two key questions: What is the name of her husband, and what is the one herb that she cannot bear? If you replied “Jeffrey” and “cilantro” before even reading the questions to the end, congratulations. You, too, are an Ina superfan.

As a reporter, I have spent a lot of time over the same years wondering exactly how a wealthy white woman with no unique culinary skill or television shtick built such a diverse and devoted following. At her house, the answer was revealed in the first five minutes.

“I find cooking hard,” she said. “I’m not a trained chef. I love cooking, but it is not easy.”

It’s a simple truth, but shared by most home cooks. And that’s what she brings to the screen, combining the enthusiasm of a student and the authority of an expert.

If what you want from a cooking teacher are ways to get dinner on the table in 30 minutes while also exploring a global pantry, Ms. Garten is not your go-to television chef. If what you want is to cook food the way they do at the upscale bistro where you already spend your disposable income, she is very probably for you.

She adapted to the pandemic energetically, opening her freezer and pantry (via pictures on Instagram) and asking, “Does anyone have something they don’t know what to do with?” She has gained 1 million followers since March.

It was the first time she had invited regular contact with her fans, and she learned a lot. No one was actually using dried beans. Sourdough was over quickly. A recipe for Overnight Mac and Cheese crashed her website.

On April 1, she posted a video of herself making a Cosmopolitan cocktail that begins with a full liter of vodka and ends with her sipping out of a martini glass as tall as a garden gnome. More than three million people have watched it, embracing the larky side of her teaching persona.

“That was it for me, I was hooked,” said April Franklin, 26, a new follower who lives in Rockville, Md. “She’s like a mom, but I want to listen to her when she tells me what to do.”

“She looks like us,” said Deborah Torres, 61, a retired teacher in Tucson, Ariz., who is a longtime fan. “She knows what she’s good at, and she stays in her lane.”

There are some signatures to an Ina recipe. Her hybrids — like waffle-iron hash browns, cacio e pepe gougères and Caesar grilled fish — are successful not only because she thinks them up, but because she painstakingly makes them fit together.

She salts like a restaurant chef, and gives exact measurements instead of relying on the phrase “to taste” — usually a lot more of it than home cooks think they can, or should, use. She is lavish with fats: butter, heavy cream, pancetta, cheese, sometimes all of the above. Then she often slips in small hits of vinegar and citrus, to wake up the flavors. There is at least one recipe in each book for a piece of meat that will cost more than anything else on your table, including the silverware.

Trent Pheifer, a 35-year-old New Yorker, is five years (and 1,029 recipes) into a quest to cook all of Ms. Garten’s recipes, a project he documents on Instagram at @storeboughtisfine (a phrase that Ms. Garten uses often, especially about chicken stock). He said that like many people his age, he tried learning how to cook from randomly chosen recipes on the internet, only to realize he didn’t have the basic kitchen skills to follow them.

“What does ‘brown around the edges’ mean? How do you take something out ‘just before it’s done’?” he said. “How do I trust my gut when I have no history in the kitchen?”

Instead, he decided to trust Ina.

Having made most of them, he has learned that the recipes always work if you follow them closely, and that when they are not simple, the extra steps are worth it. He said the feeling of mastery her recipes provide is what makes Ms. Garten so popular with inexperienced cooks.

“I would not have dreamed that I — or anyone, really — could make Baked Alaska or carnitas at home,” he said.

Her first book, “The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook,” published in 1999, is a culinary time capsule, preserving the recipes from Barefoot Contessa, the food store she ran in the Hamptons from 1978 to 1996, when the neighborhood was still a place to escape urban hassles like parking tickets and dress codes. Paul McCartney or Annie Leibovitz might stop to pick up sandwiches on the way to the beach, or post-aerobics class for iced coffee and banana crunch muffins.

“Turkey meatloaf, barbecued chicken and orzo with roasted vegetables, and coconut cupcakes,” said Antonia Bellanca, who owned a flower shop a few doors down in East Hampton and worked on many of the same parties that Ms. Garten catered. “I still wish that I could stop there every Friday night and buy food that I know everyone will like.”

Ms. Garten arrived there from the Jimmy Carter White House, where she was an analyst in the Office of Management and Budget (and one of only two women in her department). She had cooked her way through Julia Child’s first two books as a budding political hostess while Mr. Garten worked at the State Department, and was ready for a second career; Mr. Garten went to work on Wall Street. Her decision not to have children, rare for a young woman back then, freed up a lot of time for work in her 30s and 40s; she was 51 when her first book was published.

As a caterer, she built a reputation as a reliable perfectionist, and in its heyday, Barefoot Contessa helped define “the Hamptons” to the world outside, made it an international destination and established a style of beachy, casual luxury that persists there today (at a much higher price point).

When she and Jeffrey went into lockdown in March, the work did not stop. In addition to becoming her own social media manager, she has taken over production of her new show, “The Best of Barefoot Comfort,” acting as her own hair and makeup team, camerawoman, director, audio tech and food stylist.

Normally, her work kitchen operates — with two full-time assistants — like a never-ending assembly line, churning out three different recipes at a time.

One recipe is in the early stages, on which she is sharpening the flavors and coaxing the textures until they fit the ideal in her head. (This is why her profiterole and Boston cream pie recipes took years to perfect: three different components — custard, chocolate, cake — that have to work individually and together.) Another is in early testing, where she hands her version to an assistant with home-cooking skills, watches closely to see what mistakes are made and rewrites accordingly. A third is in the last stage, being tested by a professional and styled for photography. Overall, several people who have worked with her said, each recipe is tested 10 to 12 times before publication.

This system ensures that — reassuringly — nothing changes much in Inaworld. Her favorite Le Creuset pots are still the same color (the original red-orange, called “flame”) and she sticks to simple, white serving dishes. Every cookbook looks pretty much the same as the last, and is likely to hold a roast chicken, a beef filet, a root vegetable gratin, a bitter salad, a flourless chocolate confection.

Roasted carrots appeared in her very first cookbook and reappeared in her most recent one, “Modern Comfort Food,” published in October and currently on top of the New York Times best-seller list. As we did prep work for the new version of the recipe, which includes orange juice and balsamic vinegar, I asked if she had some multicolored carrots, to make the photographs pop.

“You’re talking to the Barefoot Contessa here,” she said, showing the first flash of sass I’d seen all day and heading to the fridge. “Of course I have all the carrots.”

Recipes: Cacio e Pepe Cheese Puffs | Turkey Breast Roulade With Garlic and Rosemary | Puréed Potatoes With Lemon | Charred Carrots With Orange and Balsamic

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.26 article:
Vaccine Unproven? No Problem in China, Where People Scramble for Shots

Many say they are reassured because politicians and executives have been inoculated. But experts say the risks outweigh the benefits.

Ethan Zhang needed to get back to work. Work was in Ivory Coast, however, and since January the global coronavirus outbreak had stranded the 26-year-old translator in mainland China.

Then friends told Mr. Zhang of a way he could get his hands on what might be the world’s most coveted prize: a coronavirus vaccine. Though China’s vaccine candidates have not formally been proved safe or effective, officials have been injecting them into thousands of people across the country, ostensibly under an emergency-use policy. One such campaign, his friends said, was underway in the city of Yiwu in eastern China.

Mr. Zhang took a plane to Yiwu from Beijing that night. He stood in line for four hours outside a hospital. He paid $30. He got his shot.

And he expressed little worry that the substance that had been injected into his arm is still in the testing phase, an attitude that is stirring worry among global health experts.

“I feel more relieved now that I have protection,” Mr. Zhang said. “Since they’ve started using it on some people on an emergency-use basis, it shows that there’s a certain guarantee.”

China has made its unproven candidates widely available to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness to a country that has long been skeptical of vaccines after a spate of quality scandals. Government officials and top pharmaceutical executives speak proudly of being inoculated.

The campaign has succeeded perhaps too well. Yiwu’s 500 doses were consumed within hours. Other cities are limiting doses or asking people to show proof that they are traveling. The overwhelming demand has inspired a cottage industry of scalpers — called “yellow cows” in China, the people who usually score the newest iPhones or hot railway tickets — charging as much as $1,500 for an appointment.

Those users could be taking big risks. People who have taken ineffective vaccines might believe they are safe and engage in risky behavior. They can be barred from taking another, better vaccine because they have already been injected. In a few cases in the past, unproven vaccines have caused health risks.

The potential problems often go undiscussed. Copies of the vaccination consent forms for one candidate that were reviewed by The New York Times did not specify that the product was still in testing.

“These kinds of risks have not been clearly revealed,” said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and an expert on health care in China.

Any reports of deaths or illness could reignite mistrust in vaccines. China spent years vowing to clean up its vaccine industry after scandals.

“We risk losing confidence in people if indeed adverse effects occur,” said Kristine Macartney, director of the National Center for Immunization Research and Surveillance in Sydney, Australia.

It is unclear how many people have already received a vaccine candidate. China has made three of its four candidates in late-stage human testing, called Phase 3 trials, available to tens of thousands of employees at state-owned businesses, government officials and company executives since July. Once Phase 3 trials are complete, the companies would submit results to the regulators of the countries that they want to sell their vaccines in. The authorities would review and assess them for approval.

Local governments have indicated that they plan to make the current vaccines available to more people. Beijing says it is keeping tabs on those who have been given the vaccines but has not disclosed any details.

The contrast with the United States is stark. A growing number of polls have shown that many Americans would not take a coronavirus vaccine, which could imperil efforts to stamp out the pandemic. According to a global online survey published in October in the journal Nature, respondents from China gave the highest proportion of positive responses when asked if they would take a “proven, safe and effective vaccine.”

“In China, there’s this trend of ‘everyone is getting it, so I want it, too,’” said Jennifer Huang Bouey, a senior policy researcher at the RAND Corporation. “Their problem is different from the U.S. They probably have to think about how not to create a riot when getting a vaccine, not so much how to try to roll it out.”

Chinese officials have defended making vaccine candidates available. Zheng Zhongwei, a top official at China’s National Health Commission, said last month that the move was a “very necessary means of protecting peoples’ lives and health,” given outbreaks abroad. Last week, Sinopharm’s chairman, Liu Jingzhen, announced that some 100,000 people have taken the company’s vaccine and none have shown any adverse reactions so far. He said that 56,000 of them had traveled abroad after taking the vaccine and none had been infected.

China’s drive has taken nationalistic overtones, with many celebrating the fact that the country has candidates in late-stage trials.

Wang Mingtao, a 43-year-old employee in a gold mine company in Ghana, posted a video on Douyin, China’s version of TikTok, of people lining up to get the vaccine at the Beijing headquarters of Sinopharm, the state-owned Chinese drugmaker, with the slogan: “My country is powerful.”

Mr. Wang, who traveled to Beijing from the northern city of Xian, said he was not worried about taking an experimental vaccine. He paid $150 for the vaccine, made by a Sinopharm subsidiary, the Beijing Institute of Biological Products.

The doses are not always being administered the way they should. On Sept. 26, Mr. Wang received two shots, one on each arm. The two doses are meant to be given 14 or 28 days apart. Mr. Wang said he was in a rush to travel and did not want to come back to Beijing.

“The country says this vaccine is OK,” he said, “so I think it is better to just take it.”

Mr. Liu, Sinopharm’s chairman, said that “under special circumstances,” the two doses could be delivered at the same time, on each arm, according to the Guangming Daily newspaper. The two shots are supposed to be administered days apart to generate a stronger immunity response, said Clarence Tam, an assistant professor at the National University of Singapore’s Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health who researches vaccines.

The early releases have helped highlight one potential problem: deploying an approved vaccine. Demand is so high that the government and companies could struggle with distribution both at home and in other countries that Beijing has promised the treatment to.

Wendy Zhang, a 26-year-old medical worker from the eastern city of Jinan, said she had to wait 57 days to get her second shot of a vaccine in October because the candidates had run out. She said she had felt relieved after getting it.

“There has been no adverse reaction after the vaccination, indicating that the safety of the vaccine developed by China is beyond doubt,” Ms. Zhang said.

Eden Huang, a 19-year-old student who recently arrived in Amsterdam, tried to sign up four times when Sinopharm said it was allowing students to register their interest in getting a vaccine. He also called various hospitals across Zhejiang Province but to no avail.

“I am very anxious,” Mr. Huang said. “European governments do not take Covid as seriously as our Chinese government.”

Mr. Huang said he was not worried about any safety issues, citing reports that the vaccines have been tested in more than 60,000 people in trials. “This vaccine would do me more good than harm,” he said.

For those out of luck, there are always the scalpers. For a fee ranging from $600 to $1,500, they can book vaccine appointments, they say.

Many were cagey about how they were able to book these appointments. A scalper called Mr. Li, who declined to give his full name for fear of punishment from the authorities, said that he cooperated with companies and that he booked the appointments with Sinovac, a private firm with a vaccine in late-stage trials, through these companies.

“Some people have been especially grateful to me for helping them,” Mr. Li said, though he fretted that he could be doing something illegal.

Others were more circumspect about getting the vaccine.

In Shaoxing, a city that also recently offered people access to the vaccines, He Meili, a taxi driver, said her company had told her and others that it could help arrange for them to get the treatments for $120.

“I’d like to wait and see,” Ms. He said. “I’m still a little worried.”





No.27 article:
Reassured by Biden Win, Palestinians Will Resume Cooperation With Israel

The Palestinian Authority had ended security cooperation to protest Israel’s plans to annex large parts of the West Bank. Those plans are now on hold.

JERUSALEM — The Palestinian Authority said Tuesday that it was resuming its cooperation with Israel, ending six months of financial hardship for tens of thousands of West Bank residents and signaling relief over the election of Joseph R. Biden Jr.

It was one of the first clear signs that anticipation of a new administration in Washington is having an effect on international relations.

The Palestinian announcement undid a set of stringent measures imposed by Mahmoud Abbas, the authority’s president, in May in a desperate protest against plans by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to unilaterally annex large portions of the occupied West Bank.

The Trump administration had indicated it would support some form of annexation, which would have imposed Israeli sovereignty over land that the Palestinians have counted on for a future state.

Mr. Abbas cut off security coordination with Israel, raising fears that attacks might go unprevented. He also severed civilian ties, including those that help Palestinians travel into Israel for work or medical treatment.

Most painful of all to his own people, Mr. Abbas stopped accepting routine transfers of more than $100 million a month in taxes that Israel collects on the Palestinians’ behalf, funds that account for more than 60 percent of the authority’s budget. The lack of funds forced salary cuts for tens of thousands of public-sector employees, compounding what was already a devastating economic crisis because of the pandemic.

“Praise God, I feel so relieved,” Rami Kitaneh, 35, a nurse at the Hugo Chavez Ophthalmic Hospital in the central West Bank, said Tuesday night. “I gave up so much since the start of the crisis, but now I can breathe.”

The annexation plans were shelved, not canceled, and not in response to the Palestinians’ kamikaze-style pressure tactics. Mr. Netanyahu agreed to “suspend” annexation in exchange for a landmark diplomatic accord with the United Arab Emirates. That agreement, and a subsequent one with Bahrain, stunned the Palestinians and shattered decades of Arab solidarity behind the idea that Israel should be isolated until the Palestinians achieved statehood.

Tuesday’s reversal, similarly, highlighted the Palestinians’ severely weakened position with two months remaining in a Trump administration that has pounded away at them relentlessly.

It was accompanied by none of the concessions from Israel that many Palestinian officials had hoped for in return for resuming cooperation with Israel, such as a formal statement that annexation was off the table. In effect, the election of Mr. Biden, who has stated his opposition to unilateral moves by Israel, gave the Palestinians the assurances they needed.

Spokesmen for the White House and the Biden transition team had no comment Tuesday on the Palestinian decision.

The announcement came just two days after Israel opened the bidding process for the construction of 1,257 homes in Givat Hamatos, a long-planned settlement that critics say undermines the possibility of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The settlement would deny territorial contiguity to parts of East Jerusalem, which the Palestinians want to make their capital.

On Wednesday,  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is to arrive in Israel, where he is expected to become the highest-ranking United States official to visit an Israeli settlement, stopping at a vineyard that overlooks the Ramallah area.

Palestinian leaders had abundant reasons to resume cooperation with Israel and few reasons not to. Their banks, whose liquidity had been depleted by the self-inflicted cash crunch, had informed them they could no longer lend the Palestinian Authority money, endangering its ability to operate. International donors, chiefly in Europe, had been insisting that the Palestinians resume accepting the tax transfers from Israel before seeking further aid.

Israeli and Palestinian experts also said that Democrats seeking to facilitate a return to a peace process under Mr. Biden have urged the Palestinians to take specific steps to show that they will not be obstructionist if the new administration engages on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Those include resuming security cooperation and taking the tax transfers, as well as one move that could encounter considerable opposition among the Palestinian public: reforming the way that Palestinians who serve time in Israeli prisons, including for violent attacks, are financially compensated, an arrangement that critics call “pay to slay.”

Diana Buttu, a former adviser to the Palestinian negotiations team who is now often critical of Mr. Abbas, said that some officials in Ramallah had argued to “take a pause” before resuming cooperation with Israel, reasoning that “returning to the status quo ante is what brought us the status quo.”

But she said that Mr. Abbas and his aides had chosen instead to usher in the Biden era by reinstating ties to the United States, inviting a renewal of peace talks with Israel and resuming bilateral cooperation, in hopes of getting the new administration to reverse as many of Mr. Trump’s moves as possible.

“Their whole response to the Trump administration has been to say, ‘Hello, we’re still here,’” Ms. Buttu said. “But it’s not going to lead to a change in anything. It actually gives Israel a little bit of a pass. Particularly now when you see the latest settlement announcement, and Pompeo’s visit — it’s as though they’re rewarding Israel.”

The Palestinians came close to restoring ties with Israel in August, when annexation appeared to stall because of internal opposition in Israel. But they held off in response to the normalization agreements with Arab countries, European diplomats and Palestinian officials said. Mr. Abbas did not want to be seen as benefiting from accords that he so adamantly opposed.

In the months since, Mr. Abbas has sought to create political leverage for himself by floating the idea of calling new elections — he was elected in 2005 to what was to have been a four-year term — and by renewing talks over an elusive reconciliation agreement with Hamas, the militant group that rules the Gaza Strip, and which favors a more confrontational approach toward Israel in the West Bank.

Hamas blasted the Palestinian Authority for its decision on Tuesday, calling it “a stab in the back of efforts toward building a national partnership.”

The resumption of coordination was announced on Twitter by Hussein al-Sheikh, a Palestinian Authority minister who oversees relations with Israel and is one of Mr. Abbas’s closest advisers. Saying that Israel had reconfirmed its commitment to prior agreements with the Palestinians, he wrote, “the relationship with #Israel will return to how it was.”

In an interview, he also expressed hope that relations with Washington would “return to how they were previously,” and said that he believed the authority’s decision would make it easier for Mr. Biden’s White House, along with the international community, to try to advance “the political process between us and the Israelis.”

But Michael Milshtein, a former senior Israeli military officer with extensive experience dealing with the Palestinians, said there was another reason for Mr. Abbas to go back to cooperating with Israel and let the money flow again.

“The Palestinians needed to find a way to save face,” he said. “The U.S. elections provided them with that.”





No.28 article:
Counties That Suffered Higher Unemployment Rates Voted for Biden





No.29 article:
‘Animaniacs’ Is Back, Still Zany and Totally Insane-y

The antic cartoon satire of the 1990s returns on Hulu with new episodes, original cast members and steep expectations to fulfill.

At the end of the first new “Animaniacs” episode in more than 20 years, Yakko Warner, a vaguely anthropomorphic cartoon creature with beaming eyes and floppy ears, stands in front of a blank screen and solemnly addresses the audience.

“Reboots are symptomatic of a fundamental lack of originality in Hollywood,” Yakko declares, “a creativity crisis fueled by terrified executives clinging to the past like rats to the debris of a sinking ship.”

His sister, Dot, joins in the scolding of the entertainment industry. “Have you no shame?” she asks.

At this moment, Yakko, Dot and their brother, Wakko, are presented with a check for $100 billion and a mountainous pile of money that spells out Hulu.

Wakko — who, like his siblings, is ostentatiously dressed in Hulu gear — goes onto explain, “When we sell out, we know we’re selling out, so it’s cool.”

The Warners have not been seen in new installments of their antic, self-referential cartoon series since the original 1990s run of “Animaniacs,” when they and their co-stars barnstormed through historical lampoons and pop-cultural parodies while bumping elbows with the likes of Bruce Willis, Demi Moore and Bill Clinton.

Now, Hulu is bringing back the series — which was itself a throwback to the rebellious sensibility of classic Warner Bros. cartoons from the 1940s and ’50s — in new episodes that will be released on Friday.

This “Animaniacs” revival features its original voice actors playing Yakko, Wakko and Dot (as well as supporting characters like the mismatched mouse duo Pinky and the Brain) in adventures that have been updated for an era of superhero blockbusters, social media influencers and online trolls.

All of these elements would seem more than sufficient for “Animaniacs” to pick up where it left off. But the creators of the new episodes said it has been a particular challenge for them to recapture its unique mixture of comedy styles while aiming simultaneously for a younger audience unfamiliar with the show and for older viewers who grew up on it.

“One of our goals was to make a show worthy of the first one,” said Wellesley Wild, an “Animaniacs” co-showrunner and executive producer. “Let’s try to imbue every frame with that balance of cartoon violence and satire, parody, meta-humor, musical comedy and sometimes quasi-ish educational content.”

Now that it is time to share their work with a fan base that is “so particular and rabid about the show,” Wild said, “I’m terrified.”

For the principal “Animaniacs” voice actors, there is far less tension about returning to these long dormant cartoon roles. “We’ve become a really happy part of people’s memories,” said Jess Harnell, who plays the diminutive Wakko Warner. “You can’t put a price on that.”

He and his co-stars can remember a time, in the late 1980s, when children’s animation was dominated by TV cartoons that were essentially brand extensions for action figures and other toy lines.

Among the first shows that tried to rekindle a spirit of wholesome lunacy was “Tiny Toon Adventures,” a coproduction of Warner Bros. Animation and Steven Spielberg’s Amblin Entertainment. That series made its debut in 1990 and focused on a new generation of cartoon troublemakers studying at the feet of Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck.

Its success paved the way for “Animaniacs,” which Amblin and Warner Brothers also produced and which had its premiere in 1993. This show featured a much wider cast of characters and each episode was divided into shorter sketches and musical numbers.

Rob Paulsen, the voice actor who plays the characters Yakko and Pinky, said he could still remember practicing for one of his earliest assignments on the show, a rapid-fire song about global geography set to the tune of “The Mexican Hat Dance.”

“I remember listening to my little Walkman, sitting next to my wife,” Paulsen recalled. “She said, ‘What is that?’ I sung it for her and she said, ‘Is that every country in the world?’ I said, ‘Pretty damn close.’”

To Paulsen, this segment was an early, encouraging bellwether of the show’s freewheeling comic sensibilities. “When the first thing you get is, ‘Tunisia, Morocco, Uganda, Angola, Zimbabwe, Djibouti, Botswana,’ you just go, my God,” he said.

Across 99 episodes that aired from 1993 to 1998 and a direct-to-video special released in 1999, “Animaniacs” was free to indulge its own whims and tastes, immersing its characters in pastiches of “Goodfellas,” “Apocalypse Now” and “The Day the Clown Cried” without straying from its kid-friendly ethos.

“It was social satire in a variety-show mask,” Harnell said. “You can make fun of that stuff on ‘Saturday Night Live’ at 11:30 at night for adults. But how cool is it to poke at it for 8-year-olds and have them get it?”

Eventually “Animaniacs” ran its course and the people who made it moved on to other projects.

“It was a slow decompression,” said Maurice LaMarche, who plays the megalomaniacal Brain. As with other animated shows he has made, LaMarche said, there was a period, as the voice actors worked on the final batch episodes, when they knew the show was ending but hoped it might somehow continue. Then, he said “a deep appreciation for what you’ve got and what you’ve done begins to set in, as well as for the people you’ve worked with.” (He called this process the “Toon Stages of Grief, but with fewer stages because there are fewer frames per second.”)

The cast members continued to work on other shows but remained close friends, often appearing together at conventions and other public events to celebrate the legacy of “Animaniacs” and parry questions from fans who wondered when it might come back.

In 2018, Hulu announced that it had made a deal with Amblin and Warner Bros. Animation to produce new “Animaniacs” episodes. (So far Hulu has ordered two seasons of 13 episodes each.) Behind the scenes, the voice actors were told about the show’s revival at a private dinner with Sam Register, the president of Warner Bros. Animation.

Describing the reaction among his cast mates, Harnell said, “We all looked at each other and went, ‘OK, that’s nice.’ He’s like, ‘That’s it?’ We’re like, ‘It’s Hollywood and we’ll see.’”

Harnell added that they were eager to participate, provided that the new “Animaniacs” treated the series “respectfully and reverently — we love these little characters as much as the people out there love them.”

The “Animaniacs” revival also hired new staff members like Wild, a longtime writer and producer on “Family Guy.”

Though that pedigree might seem to foretell a crass deconstruction of “Animaniacs,” Wild said his approach was not to drastically update the show or throw away its fundamental attributes. “There’s lightning in a bottle here,” he said, “and the first thing I’m going to do is keep that lightning in the bottle, vigilantly.”

As the father of two preteen sons, Wild said that children should be given credit for having sophisticated senses of humor and for knowing when they’re being talked down to.

“They just start to anticipate the jokes based on the setups,” he said. “That informed a lot of the writing on this show — to never talk down to kids, to make things fresh, inspired and original.”

“Because they notice,” he added. “They really do.”

Gabe Swarr, a co-showrunner and co-executive producer who oversees the show’s animation, said that character designs on the new episodes had been streamlined while remaining faithful to their original aesthetics.

“If you just remove one hair, that’s one less hair that everybody has to draw 1,000 times,” said Swarr, who has previously worked on shows like “Dexter’s Laboratory,” “Kung Fu Panda” and “The Penguins of Madagascar.” (He estimated that 90 to 95 percent of the animation on the new “Animaniacs” was drawn by hand.)

But the “Animaniacs” revival does not include some key members of the founding creative team like Tom Ruegger, who was the senior producer of the original series and helped to create it (as well as other Warner Bros. Animation shows like “Tiny Toon Adventures”).

Ruegger said that, though he had hoped “to play a significant role” in the reboot, he was not involved in discussions to restart the show or asked to produce the new series. Though he was later invited to submit a script for a new “Animaniacs” segment, Ruegger said he felt that “basically it would be like an audition and I just didn’t feel comfortable auditioning for a show that I created.”

“I don’t know the reasons they did it that way and I don’t know how they justify it,” Ruegger said. “Ethically, it seems really wrong.” (A spokesman for Warner Bros. declined to comment.)

LaMarche said that he and his “Animaniacs” co-stars have embraced the new producers and found them to be open and mindful collaborators.

Describing an early voice-recording session that he had with Wild, LaMarche said, “There was onetime that I piped up, when I felt Brain was being particularly callous, beyond what was the norm even for his legendary, curmudgeonly self.”

After feeling that his recommendation was heard, LaMarche said, “I’ve never felt the need to say anything again, because Wellesley and his creative team honestly get who Pinky and the Brain are.”

Tress MacNeille, the veteran voice artist who plays Dot on “Animaniacs,” said that the series was coming back at an ideal moment — a time when there are more animated shows than ever to choose from, but few that provide its specific kind of carefree, uncomplicated comedy.

“You see quite a few cartoons — none that I’m in, mind you — that make me sad,” she said. “But ‘Animaniacs’ is good-spirited. It doesn’t make you sad or angry or irked. It’s not super-message-y.”

“That’s what makes a good cartoon to me: You want your entertainment, man, you don’t need a lecture,” she continued. “A happy, fun, clever amusement — we can always use that.”





No.30 article:
Who’s Coming to Thanksgiving? N.Y. Sheriffs Say It’s Not Their Business

Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s order limiting gatherings in homes to 10 people was met with a backlash from law enforcement, particularly in Republican areas.

Hours before New York State’s order limiting private gatherings took effect on Friday, effectively barring large holiday parties, an upstate sheriff said that he would not enforce it. His office, he said, would never interfere with “the great tradition of Thanksgiving dinner.”

Days later, a sheriff in the Southern Tier region vowed that his deputies would not go “peeking in your window” to count the faces around a table. A third New York sheriff said that entering residents’ homes “to see how many Turkey or Tofu eaters are present is not a priority.”

Even as the daily numbers of new coronavirus cases climb and threaten the state’s progress toward tamping down the spread of infection, a growing number of local sheriffs and other officials say they will not enforce the state’s 10-person cap on gatherings at family homes.

Much of the opposition has come from conservative regions outside New York City, but the reluctance to police Thanksgiving feasts has not been limited to upstate areas or to Republicans. In New York City, officials said they did not anticipate strict enforcement, citing other priorities. And at least one Democratic sheriff upstate said he would not have the resources necessary to do the job.

But conservative local officials and sheriffs have so far issued the fiercest rebukes of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s order, which was announced last week. Their open refusals to enforce the ban reflect a national pattern of conservative officials criticizing restrictions meant to keep the virus at bay, orders that opponents denounce as violations of civil liberties.

“It is unenforceable,” said Steve McLaughlin, a Republican who is the Rensselaer County executive and a frequent critic of Mr. Cuomo. The county’s sheriff has said he would not enforce the order. “And I believe it’s unconstitutional as does pretty much every sheriff I’ve spoken to.”

Since the pandemic first swept across the United States in the spring, President Trump has encouraged protests against social distancing regulations and mask requirements. Influential conservative groups have also taken up the cause, and last week, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. told a prominent conservative legal group that the pandemic had brought “previously unimaginable restrictions on individual liberty.”

The backlash against such regulations has intensified in recent weeks as cases soar across the country, setting off a wave of new restrictions that are meant to stem the virus’s spread. The United States is now reporting more than 150,000 new cases a day on average.

New York, which was among the hardest hit places in America in the spring, has seen infections and hospitalizations rise, although the increases have been slighter than those in many other states.

On Tuesday, New York officials said the seven-day average rate of positive test results was 2.88 percent, and that 2,124 people were hospitalized, well below the 18,000 figure the state reached during several days in April. 

Even so, Mr. Cuomo has said for weeks that New York could only forestall the national trend and fend off a much-feared second wave of the virus if residents continued to adhere to social distancing restrictions.

Under an executive order that took effect late Friday, indoor and outdoor gatherings at private homes were limited to 10 people. Mr. Cuomo said the rule was intended to target house parties, which the state’s contact tracers have found to be a significant source of new infections.

New York is not the only state to impose such a restriction leading up to Thanksgiving. New Jersey and Connecticut have issued similar rules; Michigan has banned indoor gatherings of more than two households; and Vermont and Washington State barred indoor gatherings outside of immediate households. Several cities and towns, including Philadelphia and Chicago, have also enacted gathering limits.

New York’s rule is also in line with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which says the safest way to have a Thanksgiving gathering is to keep it limited to one’s household.

Mr. Cuomo’s order drew criticism almost immediately from New York residents who worried officers would be counting cars in driveways or otherwise disrupting holiday plans. In his announcement, the governor said only that local governments would be responsible for enforcing the rule.

On Friday morning, it became clear that Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, would not have the statewide cooperation he sought when the sheriff of Erie County, which includes Buffalo and its suburbs, said he would not enforce the gathering limit.

“This national holiday has created longstanding family traditions that are at the heart of America, and these traditions should not be stopped or interrupted by Governor Cuomo’s mandates,” the sheriff, Timothy B. Howard, a Republican, said.

The next day, he was joined by Sheriff Richard Giardino of Fulton County, which is northwest of Albany. In a forceful denunciation that he posted on Facebook, Sheriff Giardino, a Republican, questioned the constitutionality of Mr. Cuomo’s order, adding that he could not “in good faith” defend it.

“Don’t feel a need to hide cars, cover with leaves or walk 3 blocks so your house doesn’t become a target of the Governors EO,” he said.

The sheriffs in Rensselaer, Steuben and Saratoga counties also released statements saying they would not enforce the limit. In Rensselaer County, Sheriff Patrick Russo, a Republican, said his office did not have the resources needed to check on Thanksgiving gatherings or to wait for the search warrants that would be required to enter homes.

Sheriff Craig Apple of Albany County, a Democrat, shared that concern. He said that his office would enforce the order if a complaint were called in, but he added that he did not anticipate having enough deputies to strictly or effectively enforce the rule.

“I’m actually kind of hopeful that most people will just do the right thing and keep the gatherings below 10,” he said in an interview on Tuesday.

Mr. Cuomo’s office dismissed the sheriffs’ criticism as politically motivated.

“Politicians acting like politicians and ignoring what the actual experts say has been fueling the spread of this virus,” Rich Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo, said on Tuesday.

Mr. Azzopardi added that the governor’s office expected most New Yorkers to comply with the order, as they had with previous restrictions. Widespread compliance rather than enforcement was the key to any of the state’s rules being effective, he said.

“I think New Yorkers get the message,” he said. “It’s common sense.”

Still, Sheriff Apple of Albany County said he worried that the mounting backlash among the state’s sheriffs might encourage residents to further flout pandemic rules and regulations.

“I would have much preferred they said nothing,” he said of other sheriffs. “Because there’s nothing wrong with people fearful of the police coming to your house if that’s what’s going to keep you from having 30 people over at a super-spreader event.”

In New York City, officials also said they were counting on residents to comply with the cap on private gatherings. “When it comes down to individual families, we’re not going to enforce on family gatherings,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference. “We will on bigger gatherings.”

The police commissioner, Dermot F. Shea, said in a television interview that the Police Department was “not planning on breaking up Thanksgiving celebrations.” (The department has not taken the lead in enforcing virus-related restrictions in the city since May after accusations of racial bias in enforcement.)

Joseph Fucito, the city’s sheriff, said his office would be more focused on large-scale events and businesses.

On Long Island, the Suffolk County Police Department said in a statement that it would enforce the governor’s restrictions. The county executive, Steve Bellone, said there would be extra police patrols on the holiday.

“The public, they do alert the police to places where there are large gatherings happening,” Mr. Bellone, a Democrat, said. “And we will be responding.”





No.31 article:
Not Dead Yet: News Site Mistakenly Runs Dozens of V.I.P. Obituaries

Queen Elizabeth II, Pelé and Clint Eastwood were among about 100 celebrities briefly reported as dead online by French public radio. The station blamed a website upgrade.

PARIS — The reports of their deaths really were, as the saying goes, greatly exaggerated.

For a brief moment this week, startled readers of a French news site had to grapple with the apparent demise of Queen Elizabeth II of England; Pelé, the Brazilian soccer legend; Clint Eastwood; Brigitte Bardot; and dozens of other celebrities and world leaders.

As it turned out, the website of Radio France Internationale had mistakenly published about 100 prewritten obituaries for prominent figures.

Several hours after the obituaries first ran on Monday, the public radio station, which broadcasts in France and abroad, apologized and started taking the reports offline. It said unedited drafts had been accidentally published as it moved its website to a new content management system. Online platforms like Google and Yahoo News then automatically picked up some of the articles.

The radio station said in a statement that it wanted to “apologize first and foremost to those concerned by these obituaries” and who might have been hurt by the premature announcement of the deaths.

Some of those declared dead before their time responded with good humor.

“Not everybody gets the chance to take note of one’s obituary while still alive,” Abdoulaye Wade, who was president of Senegal from 2000 to 2012, quipped on Facebook after his obituary went out. Mr. Wade, 94, published a current photo of himself dressed in blue and relaxing outside in a lawn chair.

Some French social media users expressed surprise or even outrage that RFI had already written articles about people’s deaths. But that is common practice for media organizations. The New York Times has more than 1,800 advance obituaries of well-known people ready to be quickly updated and published at the time of death.

Discerning readers quickly realized that the obituaries seemed premature. For one thing, important details were lacking.

“Ali Khamenei, supreme leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, died on XXXXX at the age of XXXXXXX,” one read. Others had headlines with capital-letter annotations like “REREAD 30/07” or “LAST UPDATED in JULY 2019” — common warnings left by journalists to help scrambling editors.

For Bernard Tapie, the flamboyant French businessman and former owner of the Olympique de Marseille soccer team, it was not the first, nor even the second but the third time that reports of his death had been greatly exaggerated.

The newspaper Le Monde accidentally published his obituary in 2019, while the sports broadcaster La Chaine L’Équipe erroneously announced his death in an onscreen news ticker earlier this year. Mr. Tapie, 77, has stomach and esophageal cancer.

Line Renaud, 92, a French actress and singer, seemed unfazed by her own premature obituary. She declared on Twitter that she was “in great shape.” In a tweet sprinkled with winking and kissing Emojis, she added: “I still have so many projects to carry out.”





No.32 article:
As Grassley Tests Positive, Virus Threatens to Stall Work in Congress

Two of the oldest members of Congress, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Representative Don Young of Alaska, now have the virus, underscoring the risks on Capitol Hill.

WASHINGTON — The oldest Republican in the Senate tested positive for it. The oldest member of the House was hospitalized with it. And several more lawmakers have announced they have either been diagnosed with the coronavirus or are quarantining after exposure to it, in what is threatening to become a mini-outbreak on Capitol Hill that has already disrupted the business of Congress.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, 87, on Tuesday became the latest lawmaker to be affected, announcing that he had tested positive. His absence helped to temporarily derail the confirmation of President Trump’s nominee for the Federal Reserve Board and shattered Mr. Grassley’s pride and joy, the longest consecutive voting streak in Senate history.

His diagnosis came the day after Representative Don Young of Alaska, also 87, disclosed that he had been hospitalized over the weekend after what he described as a particularly brutal bout with Covid-19. The twin announcements from two men whose gender and age put them at peak vulnerability to being killed by the virus underscored the risks that lawmakers are operating under as Congress continues to meet.

The marble-and-stone petri dish that is Capitol Hill is a vivid microcosm of the national struggle to confront and contain the spread of the pandemic, with partisan bickering often thwarting already unevenly enforced health precautions. Having effectively declared themselves essential workers, the nation’s lawmakers — a group of older Americans whose jobs involve weekly flights, ample indoor contact and near-constant congregating in close quarters — are yet again struggling to adapt their legislative and ceremonial routines to stem the spread of the virus, even as it rages within their ranks.

As of Tuesday afternoon, both Senator Rick Scott, Republican of Florida, and Mr. Grassley were in quarantine as a result of possible exposure, marking the first time Mr. Grassley had missed a vote since 1993. In the House, Mr. Young — who noted on Monday that he was “alive, feeling better and on the road to recovery” after being discharged — is among four lawmakers who have revealed they contracted the virus in the past month.

More than 80 members of Congress have either tested positive, quarantined or come into contact with someone who had the virus, according to GovTrack.

In a memo issued Sunday evening, Dr. Brian P. Monahan, the attending physician for Capitol Hill, informed lawmakers that his office would provide rapid tests that would produce results within six to 12 hours to lawmakers and staff returning to the nation’s capital. The testing, an expansion largely prompted by a travel order issued by Mayor Muriel Bowser of the District of Columbia that requires travelers to obtain a test after arrival in Washington, is voluntary.

But stark divisions remain on how to handle the pandemic in the Capitol — even as states are experiencing the highest number of cases ahead of an expected brutal winter — let alone on how to address its toll across the country. Over the loud objections of Republicans, House Democrats created a proxy-voting system that they announced this week would be in effect through the end of the year, but Senate Republicans have yet to impose any alternative to voting in person on the floor.

The two chambers have never reconciled their varying positions on whether masks should be required while voting. They are required on the floor of the Democratic-led House, but they are only strongly recommended in the Republican-controlled Senate.

Several Republicans, including lawmakers who have had Covid-19, continue to resist wearing masks elsewhere in the Capitol, and a nasty spat broke out about the practice on Monday on the normally decorous Senate floor.

Late last week, House Democratic leaders abruptly transformed an elaborate dinner in Statuary Hall for their new members into a grab-and-go meal after facing a backlash online and internally for hosting such an event when most Americans are being warned to curtail or cancel holiday plans. And during orientation for new lawmakers — which had already been largely subdued because of the virus — Marjorie Taylor Greene, a QAnon-backing Republican, proudly announced in the middle of a discussion of pandemic safety that she had denounced face coverings.

It is a dynamic that bodes poorly for attendance in the waning days of the 116th Congress. On Tuesday, the absence of Mr. Grassley and Mr. Scott temporarily stalled the confirmation of Judy Shelton, Mr. Trump’s Fed nominee, after Republicans fell short of the support necessary to advance to a final vote.

“There’s this kind of macho, ‘Well, I’m not afraid of Covid’ thing going on,” said Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, who has one of the longest congressional commutes and has instructed his entire staff to work remotely. “We have to run the government — that’s our obligation. Our obligation is not to show that we’re personally unafraid, because we have to pass legislation to address this crisis, and we’re no good to anybody if we’re sick or quarantining.”

The partisan divisions were further underscored by a tense exchange on Monday evening between Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, while Mr. Sullivan was presiding over the chamber.

When Mr. Brown rose to speak, he asked Mr. Sullivan, whose mask was off and lying on the desk in front of him, to “please wear a mask,” in part to protect the staff members required to sit on the dais just below, at a distance closer than the six feet recommended for proper distancing.

“I don’t wear a mask when I’m speaking, like most senators,” shot back Mr. Sullivan, who wears a mask around the Capitol but removes it to speak on the floor. “I don’t need your instruction.”

Mr. Brown declared that Mr. Sullivan’s objection was evidence that “there isn’t much interest in public health” in the Senate and circulated a clip of the exchange on Twitter.

Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, joined the fray, saying that Mr. Brown was “being a complete ass” and calling his decision to wear a mask on the Senate floor “an ostentatious sign of fake virtue.”

Yet some other senators appeared to seize on the opportunity to use their positions to send a message about the virus. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, announced he had begun participating in a vaccine trial this month, in part to counter the misinformation circulating about the virus and the effectiveness of a vaccine.

“It’s probably the one thing everybody can agree on,” he said, adding that he planned to introduce bipartisan legislation to provide for a public service campaign boosting an eventual vaccine. “I really am concerned that people aren’t going to take advantage of this opportunity to protect themselves, their families and protect the community.”





No.33 article:
Key takeaways from the hearing, by the numbers.

The Senate Judiciary Committee concluded its hearing with Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, and Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, after more than four hours and 127 questions on Tuesday.

The New York Times tracked each question. Here’s what we found.

Republicans asked 72 questions of the chief executives, 53 of which concerned how they moderate content on their social media platforms. Republican senators were particularly focused on how Twitter and Facebook could employ less moderation, with 37 questions about censoring conservative voices and the ideological makeup of their work forces.

Democrats asked 14 questions about content moderation, but most of those focused on whether more moderation could help prevent the spread of hate speech and violence.

After content moderation, lawmakers asked most about misinformation, with 39 questions about the propagation of misinformation on social media platforms. Democrats lobbed 37 of those queries, often mentioning false claims made by President Trump about voter fraud in the presidential election.

Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, briefly grilled both Mr. Dorsey and Mr. Zuckerberg on antitrust concerns. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, asked about whether Facebook and Twitter could become addictive.

Mr. Zuckerberg fielded the majority of the inquiries with 71, and Mr. Dorsey was asked 56 questions.

Mr. Graham, the committee chair, asked 15 questions, the most of any senator, while Republicans Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri each asked 12 questions.





No.34 article:
Even the Littlest Helping Hands Can Make Thanksgiving

This year’s scaled-down festivities present the perfect opportunity to start developing kitchen skills.

For many families, this year’s Thanksgiving is going to feel topsy-turvy, and, as challenging as it might be for grown-ups, it may also be strange for kids.

For my 12-year-old daughter, there’ll be no big, festive dinner at Grandma’s house, no running around the backyard with cousins, no sneaking crispy bits of skin off the resting turkey or mini marshmallows from the bag. (Yes, we see you!)

But pausing some traditions creates opportunities for new ones. A smaller, podded celebration is an excellent time to lure your children into the kitchen and cook Thanksgiving dinner as a family.

More important, though, helping with the meal gives kids a chance to become deeply invested, allowing them to experience the joys of the process along with the flavors. Some of my earliest and best Thanksgiving memories involve helping my parents at a young age: peeling roasted chestnuts for the stuffing with my dad around age 6, and whipping cream for the pies and cakes with my mom just a year or so later. Having a say in planning the menu and preparing it by your side gives kids skills that can enable future cooking — into this holiday season and beyond. And it’s never too early to plunge in. Even the littlest kids can lend a hand with simple tasks like crumbling cornbread for stuffing.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

To get all ages, from curious toddlers to eye-rolling tweens and TikTok-ing teens, started, I’ve included three Thanksgiving dishes — cornmeal stuff with Cheddar and scallions, roasted sweet potatoes with lime sour cream and pecans, and a fluffy-topped pumpkin fudge torte — that they’ll be proud of making before they devour them.

Lastly, let’s talk about clean up. Cleaning as you go is as vital a kitchen technique as correctly holding a knife. My advice? Take a deep breath and let them make a mess, because that’s what cooking’s all about, and then instruct them how to help clean it up. Two useful tips: Have a damp cloth at the ready for wiping up splatters and spills, and use trash bowls that are easy to reach.

Yes, cooking a meal with your kids could take longer than if you did it yourself. But if you can give them the confidence and skills to do it again, won’t it have all been worth it?

Keep the littlest chefs by your side, letting them climb onto a step stool, so they can reach the counter and be part of the action. Since these young ones are still developing their fine motor skills, show them tasks that let them use their hands whenever safely possible.

Picking herbs off stems, tearing lettuce for salad, and squeezing lemons or other citrus (that you’ve already cut) into bowls for dressings are all good candidates. If you’re baking sweet potatoes, let your younger chefs wrap them in foil. And they’ll love smashing graham crackers for pie crusts. (Just put the graham crackers in a heavy-duty plastic bag first.)

Grade-school kids are ready for a lot more responsibility in the kitchen, and they’re at a great age to absorb whatever you teach them.

They can help prep ingredients: measuring out flour, sugar, spices and condiments; cracking eggs; grating cheese, ginger and citrus zest; and grating or pressing garlic. And they can be excellent whiskers, mashers and sandwich makers. (For these recipes, school-age kids can whisk together the torte ingredients, and perhaps even melt the butter, and they can learn how to use an electric mixer for whipping the topping.)

This is also the time to introduce them to the world of knives and other sharp kitchen equipment like skewers and graters. Butter knives and rigid plastic knives marketed for kids are wonderful options for slicing fruit, cheese and soft vegetables. Depending on your kid, you might even be able to give them a real knife to use. (Be sure to supervise them closely.)

[How does Ina Garten do it? Read our profile of the Barefoot Contessa.]

Make sure that whatever knife you give them is small enough to fit comfortably in their hand: Paring and small, 6- to 7-inch knives can work well. Then, go online together, and watch a few instructional videos on how to safely use them. (Your knife skills might benefit, too.)

These older kids are ready for any task you feel good about giving them, including those at the stove. Go over basic stove safety (especially oven mitt use) and don’t stray far from the kitchen until you’re sure they’ve got it.

At this age, kids are ready to start tackling simple recipes, like those included here, as well as straightforward things like mashed potatoes, pumpkin bread, muffins and salads before moving on to more complicated soups, stews and pasta dishes.

Once they’re comfortable, encourage them to get creative. Any mistakes will make them better cooks, and every success will give them the pride and confidence they need to be true partners in the kitchen. Soon, they’ll be cooking dishes or even meals, for the family if they’re excited about the process.

And getting them excited about cooking is a lifelong gift that will repay everyone — sage parents and empowered kids — for years to come.

Recipes: Sweet Potatoes With Sour Cream and Pecans | Scallion-Cheddar Cornbread Stuffing | Pumpkin Fudge Torte

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.35 article:
Time Runs Out for a U.S.-Canada Oil Pipeline

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan said the state would shut down a line between her state and Ontario that has been operating since the 1950s.

In an unusual move, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, citing environmental concerns, is shutting down an underwater pipeline that carries oil to refineries in her state and Canada.

Pipeline operations normally fall under federal jurisdiction. Governor Whitmer, a Democrat, is acting under the state’s public trust doctrine, which requires state authorities to protect the Great Lakes. The pipeline in question, known as Line 5, has been in operation since the 1950s.

The decision, announced on Friday, requires the pipeline operator Enbridge to cease operations on a specific section of Line 5 by May 2021, but it will have the effect of curtailing the entire pipeline, which runs between Superior, Wis., and Sarnia, Ontario.

“Enbridge has routinely refused to take action to protect our Great Lakes and the millions of Americans who depend on them for clean drinking water and good jobs,” Governor Whitmer said in a statement.

Under the terms of an agreement with the state, Enbridge is required to maintain a multilayered coating on the pipeline to protect it from corrosion and to ensure that the pipeline has physical supports that are no more than 75 feet apart. The Michigan authorities found that the company had violated those terms and also failed to adequately protect the pipeline from damage from boat anchors.

While the line moves a relatively small quantity of oil — about 540,000 barrels of light crude oil and liquid natural gas each day, compared with national average consumption of 20 million barrels of crude oil per day — environmentalists applauded the move. While it was not clear that the legal strategy could easily be applied to other pipelines, they also said it was significant in that it focused on an older pipeline rather than a new project.

“I think this Line 5 decision is going to spark some interest in existing pipelines,” said Jared Margolis, a senior attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity. “I think, at some point, we do need to turn to pipelines that are in the ground that are dangerous, that are posing a serious risk.”

Governor Whitmer’s action will revoke the 1953 easement that allows Enbridge to operate pipelines through the Straits of Mackinac, a narrow waterway that connects Lake Michigan and Lake Huron.

A spokesman for Enbridge said the decision could have “devastating” economic consequences.

“Enbridge remains confident that Line 5 continues to operate safely and that there is no credible basis for terminating the 1953 easement allowing the Dual Line 5 Pipelines to cross the Straits of Mackinac,” the spokesman, Michael Barnes, said. “Line 5 is an essential source of energy for not only Michigan but for the entire region including Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Ontario, and Quebec.”

Opponents of the move also said they worried that an abrupt shutdown would disrupt oil supplies, forcing nearby refineries out of business and disrupting the propane supplies to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, where many rural residents rely on propane to heat their homes.

“Shutting down Line 5 would kill thousands of jobs in Michigan, severely impact manufacturing and cost our economy hundreds of millions of dollars when the state is already reeling from a pandemic,” said Mike Johnson, the vice president of government affairs at the Michigan Manufacturers Association.

A study commissioned by the National Wildlife Federation, however, found that the economic impact for Michigan oil producers of shutting down Line 5 would be minimal and that other shipping methods like trucking would keep refineries running.

“There are alternatives to moving that oil,” said Margrethe Kearney, a senior attorney at the Environmental Law and Policy Center. “I think that we should be really careful and really skeptical of arguments by Enbridge that shutting this pipeline down will result in some dire circumstance and that the sky will fall.”

The decision came after nearly a decade of political pressure. According to Ms. Kearney, a 2010 oil spill on another Enbridge line in Michigan, which poured nearly 850,000 gallons of tar sand into the Kalamazoo River, piqued public interest in Line 5 and other pipelines.

“It’s a very iconic part of Michigan’s culture,” Ms. Kearney said of the area. “So when people realized there’s this oil pipeline down there, it was a really big deal.”





No.36 article:
Annie Feron, Teacher and Host Mother to Foreign Students, Dies at 83

She left her home in Belgium and spent time in London as a young woman, then went on to foster a chain of foreign exchange student relationships that spanned generations. She died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Eating at Annie Feron’s? No invitation necessary. All you had to do was show up.

Ms. Feron’s four children, their friends, young people she unofficially adopted, her husband, a rotating cast of long-term guests: On any given night, any or all of them might appear at her dinner table in Liège, Belgium. Ten diners was average.

The dishes Ms. Feron prepared were as traditionally Belgian as could be: leek soup, endive gratin and apple sauce, which was made from apples grown on trees in Ms. Feron’s garden. But the diners could be from all over the world. The guests staying in her home came from Vietnam, Russia and Peru, among other places.

Ms. Feron died on Oct. 27 at a hospital in Liège. She was 83. Her daughter, Cathy Feron, said the cause was Covid-19.

Just before her death, Ms. Feron left her children several commandments, meant to serve as reminders of the family’s values, Ms. Feron said. A principal tenet: “Host other people.”

Nothing exemplified Ms. Feron’s commitment to hosting like her support of foreign-exchange students.

As a young woman, Ms. Feron had been a foreign exchange student in London, where she struggled with homesickness but also learned the potential power of living abroad. It helped her become fluent in English.

As an adult, she hosted roughly a dozen long-term foreign visitors, several of them exchange students. One student was Nicole Allen, who at 16 moved from Washington, Pa., to Liège in 1991 though a foreign exchange program organized by Rotary International. Ms. Feron was her host mother.

Her jolly dinner parties, her firm but gentle critiques of Nicole’s French, and her comradeship during the challenging early months of Nicole’s time in Belgium — before she made friends her own age — had made an enduring impact.

Ms. Allen chose to attend college at McGill University in Montreal and continue living in the city afterward, sharpening her French. She married a French-speaking man. She became “a lifelong lover of French culture, thanks in part to Annie,” she said.

Annie Eugénie Uselding was born on Aug. 27, 1937, in the Belgian village of Nobressart. She grew up in a nearby village, Heinstert, where her father, Joseph Uselding, was the mayor. He also ran a small farm, where Annie’s mother, Marie Uselding Feller, helped out.

Annie received a certification to teach Germanic languages in the early 1960s from l’Institut de L’Enfant Jésus à Nivelles, near Brussels. She met Joseph Feron, a friend of her brother’s from military service, and they married in 1966.

The couple moved to Liège for better work opportunities. Mr. Feron sold insulation and building supplies. In 1967, Ms. Feron became a teacher of German and Flemish at Saint-Lambert Collège, in a town near Liège. She stayed until the early 2000s.

Ms. Feron’s husband died in 2013. In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a brother, Luc Uselding; three sons, Jean-Christophe, Bernard and Pierre Feron; and 10 grandchildren.

After Ms. Allen returned home from Belgium, she and Ms. Feron kept in touch through letters for 30 years. The valence of hosting shifted. Mr. and Ms. Feron visited New York and stayed with Ms. Allen. Ms. Feron pushed the tradition into another generation, asking Ms. Allen to host her 16-year-old granddaughter, Camille Feron.

Like her antecedents, Camille was shaped by the experience, said Cathy Feron, her aunt: “It helped her open up out of her shell.”





No.37 article:
Don’t Fear the Robots, and Other Lessons From a Study of the Digital Economy

A task force assembled by M.I.T. examined how technology has changed, and will change, the work force.

L. Rafael Reif, the president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, delivered an intellectual call to arms to the university’s faculty in November 2017: Help generate insights into how advancing technology has changed and will change the work force, and what policies would create opportunity for more Americans in the digital economy.

That issue, he wrote, is the “defining challenge of our time.”

Three years later, the task force assembled to address it is publishing its wide-ranging conclusions. The 92-page report, “The Work of the Future: Building Better Jobs in an Age of Intelligent Machines,” was released on Tuesday.

The group is made up of M.I.T. professors and graduate students, researchers from other universities, and an advisory board of corporate executives, government officials, educators and labor leaders. In an extraordinarily comprehensive effort, they included labor market analysis, field studies and policy suggestions for changes in skills-training programs, the tax code, labor laws and minimum-wage rates.

Here are four of the key findings in the report:

It’s well known that those on the top rungs of the job ladder have prospered for decades while wages for average American workers have stagnated. But the M.I.T. analysis goes further. It found, for example, that real wages for men without four-year college degrees have declined 10 to 20 percent since their peak in 1980. (Two-thirds of American workers do not have four-year college degrees.)

The U.S. economy produces larger wage gaps, proportionately fewer high-quality jobs and less intergenerational mobility than most other developed nations do, the researchers found. And America does not seem to get a compensating payoff in growth. “The U.S. is getting a low ‘return’ on its inequality,” the report said.

Nor does the lagging position of American workers appear to be the result of technology. “It’s not that we have better technology, automating more middle-wage jobs,” said David Autor, an M.I.T. labor economist and a co-author of the report. “We have worse institutions.”

Technology has always replaced some jobs, created new ones and changed others. The question is whether things will be different this time as robots and artificial intelligence quickly take over for humans on factory floors and in offices.

The M.I.T. researchers concluded that the change would be more evolutionary than revolutionary. In fact, they wrote, “we anticipate that in the next two decades, industrialized countries will have more job openings than workers to fill them.”

That judgment is informed by field research in several industries and sectors including insurance, health care, driverless vehicles, logistics and warehouses, advanced manufacturing, and small and medium-size manufacturers.

For self-driving cars and trucks, the M.I.T. researchers concluded that widespread use was still a decade or more away. In warehouses, Amazon has made great strides with automated conveyance systems and some robotics, but its warehouses run on human labor, and will for years.

Despite advances, robots simply don’t have the flexibility and dexterity of human workers. Today’s robots learn from data and repetition. They can be remarkably adept at a certain task, but only that one. The report cited a fine-tuned gripping robot that could pluck a glazed doughnut and carefully place it in a box, with its shiny glaze undisturbed.

“But that gripper only works on doughnuts,” the report said. “It can’t pick up a clump of asparagus or a car tire.”

The cost and operational expertise required will also slow the widespread adoption of robots. A research team surveyed dozens of small and medium-size manufacturers in Massachusetts, Ohio and Arizona, and found “very few robots anywhere.” (Small and medium-size companies, with fewer than 500 workers, account for 98 percent of the nation’s manufacturing firms and 43 percent of manufacturing employment.)

“The key ingredient for success is public-private partnerships,” said Annette Parker, president of South Central College, a community college in Minnesota, and a member of the advisory board to the M.I.T. project.

The schools, nonprofits and corporate-sponsored programs that have succeeded in lifting people into middle-class jobs all echo her point: the need to link skills training to business demand.

Ms. Parker points to the development of the hybrid field of “mechatronics,” which combines basic mechanical, electronics and digital skills for maintaining modern machinery. Salaries go up to $80,000, she said, adding that “everybody who is automating needs them.”

The report points to successful programs that offer alternative paths to education and skills training. IBM created a program, P-TECH, that combines high school, community college and work experience with IBM and many other companies. The six-year program is geared to science and technology fields, and to students from underserved communities. Begun in 2011, the program is now in more than 160 schools in America.

“Technology companies have an obligation to help responsibly prepare society for these higher-skill jobs,” said Ginni Rometty, executive chairman of IBM and a member of the M.I.T. advisory board.

Google has a leading technology certificate program. The online course typically takes three to six months, and graduates get a Google IT support professional certificate. More than 50 companies have pledged to recognize the Google certificate when hiring technology support staff. The program is the most popular certificate course on Coursera, the online learning network.

The report recommends an employer training tax credit, similar to the current research and development tax credit, that can be applied only to industry-recognized certifications.

There are a handful of nonprofit job-training programs with proven track records, including Year Up, Per Scholas, Project Quest and JVS. The M.I.T. group suggests making federal grants available to such noncollege training and job programs.

But those nonprofit ventures are still small, reaching tens of thousands a year in total. By contrast, the nation’s 1,100 community colleges serve millions of students. The report calls them “the linchpin to America’s training ecosystem,” and recommends increasing government funding, with support linked to adopting best practices and placing students in good-paying jobs.

The report calls for raising the minimum wage, broadening unemployment insurance and modifying labor laws to enable collective bargaining in occupations like domestic and home-care workers and freelance workers. Such representation, the report notes, could come from traditional unions or worker advocacy groups like the National Domestic Workers Alliance, Jobs With Justice and the Freelancers Union.

The M.I.T. researchers also recommend changes to tax laws that favor corporate spending on machines rather than workers.

Changing the tax code and labor laws is among the most politically controversial recommendations in the report. But the politics are not always predictable and may be changing, said David Rolf, founding president of Seattle-based Local 775 of the Service Employees International Union and a leader of the Fight for Fifteen campaign, the effort to increase the minimum wage to $15 an hour.

President Trump comfortably won Florida in this month’s election, but more than 60 percent of Florida voters approved a state constitutional amendment lifting the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2026, from its current level of $8.56.

Mr. Rolf, a member of the advisory board, said the report “pointed to the need for a different economic and legal framework.” And, he added, “that’s an important signal, coming from M.I.T.”





No.38 article:
The N.B.A. Draft Steal ‘People Sort of Forgot’

Isaiah Stewart is ready to make his mark on the N.B.A. after a down season at Washington led many to overlook him. “I just have to remind them,” Stewart said. “I have to wake them back up.”

There is a story about Isaiah Stewart that sounds apocryphal now that he is on the cusp of entering the N.B.A., but his father, Dela, vouched for its authenticity.

It goes something like this: When Isaiah was a fifth grader in Rochester, N.Y., he received late notice that one of his basketball practices had been rescheduled for earlier in the day. His father, who worked in construction, had already left for a job site, which meant that Isaiah had no way to get across the city to practice — unless he wanted to walk.

So Isaiah put on his puffy jacket, laced up his Timberland boots and trekked several miles through the snow, following the same route his school bus usually took.

“I probably could’ve gotten there quicker,” Isaiah said in a recent telephone interview, “but that was only way I knew how to get there.”

Dela was not pleased when he learned of his son’s adventure. But Isaiah could sense, even then, that his father understood why he had been so determined to get to practice.

“Everyone knows my work ethic comes from my dad,” Isaiah said. “It’s something that’s just in me.”

A 6-foot-9, 250-pound power forward, Stewart has spent the past eight months at home in Rochester, refining his game at an area high school ahead of Wednesday’s draft, long delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic. He has zeroed in on his shooting, his passing and his defense. He has studied film of Bam Adebayo, a 6-foot-9 center-forward for the Miami Heat whom Stewart considers similarly undersized for his position.

“Everybody comes in watching somebody,” he said. “You could easily say, ‘Oh, Anthony Davis.’ But you’ve got to keep it real. Not everybody can be Anthony Davis, that type of player.”

In other words, Stewart recognizes his strengths as a high-energy big man, more fierce than high-flying. And while he knows that the draft could be a transformative moment, he seems to be guarding against letting his focus waver.

“Draft night will just be a big checkpoint for me,” he said. “Because when I get drafted, the real work starts.”

Stewart, 19, has described himself as the “biggest sleeper” in the draft, as most projections have him being selected late in the first round. Not long ago, he was the Naismith Prep Player of the Year as a senior at La Lumiere School, a private school in La Porte, Ind. But in his only season at Washington, the Huskies struggled to a 15-17 record. Stewart averaged 17 points and 8.8 rebounds per game while shooting 57 percent from the field.

“It was a down season at U.W.,” Stewart said, “so people sort of forgot who Isaiah Stewart was, what I’ve been doing against the top players and how I’ve always killed the competition, killed matchups and dominated every other player at my position. So that’s why I feel like I’m a sleeper. I just have to remind them. I have to wake them back up.”

Stewart grew up in “the heart of Rochester,” he said, where his father did his best to insulate him and his older brother Martin from the trapdoors of the city. (Isaiah also has a close relationship with his mother, Shameka Holloway — “She’s the sweet one, always cracking jokes,” he said — though he lived with his father growing up.)

“I was very strict with them,” said Dela Stewart, 63. “A lot of kids go down the wrong path, man. That wasn’t going to happen to Isaiah and Martin.”

Dela Stewart grew up in Jamaica but left at age 20 for the Florida Everglades to work in the sugar cane fields. The days began before dawn, to beat the heat. Snakes were a constant menace. He spent years traveling around the Southeast doing seasonal labor. He picked bell peppers, cucumbers, oranges and eggplants. He farmed tobacco in North Carolina.

In 1996, he moved to Rochester after finding construction work. He poured concrete. He spent long days crouched over a jackhammer. At home, he had rules for his young sons: No partying. No late nights with friends. School and chores were the priorities.

“I remember how he’d show up to school in his work clothes,” Isaiah Stewart said. “His boots would be all dusty, he’d have his little mask on below his chin, and he’d go straight to the classroom to ask the teacher if I was keeping up with my grades. And this was probably like the third grade.”

It was not until a couple of years ago that Isaiah and Martin, who studies culinary arts at a community college, helped persuade their father to retire.

“I didn’t want to stop,” Dela Stewart said. “I wanted to keep working. But I’ve been in so much damn pain. My shoulders, my knees.”

Before the pandemic, retirement left Dela Stewart with more time to travel to see Isaiah play basketball, though there was just one problem: He does not like to fly.

When Isaiah visited Washington as a high school senior for his recruiting trip, his father accompanied him on the flight — and then told the coaching staff that he would be purchasing a train ticket for his return to Rochester. The trip took several days. He has since endured a couple of similar cross-country odysseys. He does not seem to mind.

“You’ve got your own little room, and I just look out the window at the mountains and the oil fields,” he said, though he has struggled at times to cram his 6-foot-3 frame inside the shower. “Sometimes the bathroom is so small you can’t move around in it.”

For father and son, it has always been about finding a way — no matter the circumstances. Finding a way home. Finding a way to practice. Finding a way to a better life.

“I will support everything he does,” Dela Stewart said. “Everything.”





No.39 article:
Theo Epstein Leaves the Cubs, but Plans to Stick Around Baseball

After ending long championship droughts for Boston and Chicago, Epstein plans to take a year off. But the executive will be in demand when he chooses to return.

Theo Epstein, the baseball executive and architect of two of the most remarkable championships in sports history, announced on Tuesday that he would step down from his post as president of baseball operations for the Chicago Cubs, saying the time was right to hand the reins to Jed Hoyer, the Cubs’ general manager, and move on to another venture.

For an instant, Epstein became the most highly prized baseball executive available, but soon said in a news conference that he did not envision working for a team in 2021. He outlined plans to serve the game in a general capacity and said that he plans to lead another club someday, perhaps even as part of an ownership group. He also noted that he wanted to spend more time with his wife and two sons.

But Epstein did not unequivocally rule out joining another team for the 2021 season, saying he would answer his phone if any team were to call.

“I’m open-minded about my future,” he said, “but those are my plans. I don’t expect to jump in with another team right now, and I’m really looking forward to the freedom to explore lots of different things.”

The Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies are both looking for someone to lead their baseball operations, and either would be a logical candidate to pursue Epstein, especially the Mets, who have not won a World Series since 1986. After all, Epstein has a well-earned reputation for ending lengthy championship droughts.

Even if he never works in the sport again, Epstein has already carved out a Hall of Fame career with the Cubs and the Boston Red Sox, helping both franchises win championships after each had gone multiple decades without a World Series title.

Beginning with the 2012 season, he engineered the comprehensive roster rebuild that led the Cubs to the 2016 World Series title, thus closing the book on 108 years of frustration and futility on the Northside of Chicago.

Before that, he had been the youngest general manager in baseball when he took over the Red Sox, the team he followed as a child, in 2002 at age 28. Two years later Boston won the World Series to end its 86-year stretch without a championship. Epstein was also in charge when the Red Sox won the 2007 World Series, but left for Chicago after the 2011 season.

Epstein, 46, said he planned to buy season tickets to the Cubs and also discussed areas where he could help build the game as a whole, perhaps in a role with the commissioner’s office. An early devotee of data analysis, he took some responsibility for problems with the game due to the expanded reliance on advanced statistics, which he believes has made the game less entertaining.

Epstein had one year remaining on a five-year, $40 million contract extension he signed with the Cubs in 2016. But he has long held to a belief, which he credits to the former San Francisco 49ers Coach Bill Walsh, that 10 years are the optimal period of time to remain in one venture. Epstein said his real skill was building teams into champions. “Maintaining” them, he said, is not as much of a strength for him.

“In the first six years or so, we did some pretty epic things,” he said. “And the last couple years weren’t as impressive.”

Tom Ricketts, the chairman of the Cubs, has stated that baseball is facing significant financial stress because of the coronavirus pandemic, and Epstein, presumably referring to the cost of his contract, said that the projected rebuild of the team would be “easier” without him there. He said his departure would allow Hoyer, who spent two years as general manager of the San Diego Padres, to make long-term decisions about the Cubs’ current roster.

When Epstein took over the Cubs after the 2011 season, the team went through a painful rebuild in which it finished fifth in its division three years in a row, and he felt the burden of trying to end the longest championship drought in the sport. But through a combination of astute draft picks, trades and signings, he built a team that won a seven-game World Series against the Cleveland Indians, who have not won the Series since 1948.

During those early years in Chicago, Epstein said, he often dreamed that the Cubs had won the title, only to wake up and realize they were still in fifth place. Then, after they beat the Indians, he returned home from a night of celebration in Cleveland only to wake up later with that same feeling. For an instant, Epstein wondered if it had all been that same tantalizing dream.

“And then I realized it was real life and had this incredible rush of just joy and pride in collective accomplishment and freedom,” he said, “realizing that I had done what I set out to do and could be free from that burden going forward.”





No.40 article:
How Can We Trust This G.O.P. in Power Again?

With Biden’s election, American democracy narrowly escaped disaster.

So how do I feel two weeks after our election? Awed and terrified. I am in awe at the expression of democracy that took place in America. It was our most impressive election since 1864 and maybe our most important since 1800. And yet, I am still terrified that, but for a few thousand votes in key states, how easily it could have been our last election.

To put my feelings in image form: It’s like Lady Liberty was walking across Fifth Avenue on Nov. 3 when out of nowhere a crazy guy driving a bus ran the red light. Lady Liberty leapt out of the way barely in time, and she’s now sitting on the curb, her heart pounding, just glad to be alive. But she knows — she knows — how narrowly she escaped, that this reckless driver never stops at red lights and is still out there, and, oh my God, lots of his passengers are still applauding the thrilling ride, even though deep down many know he’s a menace to the whole city.

Let’s unpack all of this. Stop for a second and think about how awesome this election was. In the middle of an accelerating pandemic substantially more Americans voted than ever before in our history — Republicans, Democrats and independents. And it was their fellow citizens who operated the polling stations and conducted the count — many of them older Americans who volunteered for that duty knowing they could contract the coronavirus, as some did.

That’s why this was our greatest expression of American democratic vitality since Abraham Lincoln defeated Gen. George B. McClellan in 1864 — in the midst of a civil war. And that’s why Donald Trump’s efforts to soil this election, with his fraudulent claims of voting fraud, are so vile.

If Trump and his enablers had resisted for only a day or two, OK, no big deal. But the fact that they continue to do so, flailing for ways to overturn the will of the people, egged on by their media toadies — Lou Dobbs actually said on Fox Business that the G.O.P. should refuse to accept the election results that deny Trump “what is rightfully his” — raises this question:

How do you trust this version of the Republican Party to ever hold the White House again?

Its members have sat mute while Trump, rather than using the federal bureaucracy to launch a war against our surging pandemic, has launched a war against his perceived enemies inside that federal bureaucracy — including the defense secretary, the head of the National Nuclear Security Administration and, on Tuesday, the most senior cybersecurity official responsible for protecting the presidential election — weakening it when we need it most.

Engineering Trump’s internal purge is 30-year-old Johnny McEntee, “a former college quarterback who was hustled out of the White House two years ago after a security clearance check turned up a prolific habit for online gambling,” but Trump later welcomed him back and installed him as personnel director for the entire U.S. government, The Washington Post reported.

A political party that will not speak up against such a reckless leader is not a party any longer. It is some kind of populist cult of personality.

That’s been obvious ever since this G.O.P. was the first party to conclude its presidential nominating convention without offering any platform. It declared that its platform was whatever its Dear Leader said it was. That is cultlike.

Are we just supposed to forget this G.O.P.’s behavior as soon as Trump leaves and let its leaders say: “Hey fellow Americans, Trump tried to overturn the election with baseless claims — and we went along for the ride — but he’s gone now, so you can trust us to do the right things again.”

That is why we are so very lucky that this election broke for Joe Biden. If this is how this Republican Party behaves when Trump loses, imagine how willing to tolerate his excesses it would have been had he won? Trump wouldn’t have stopped at any red lights ever again.

And the people who understood that best were democrats all over the world — particularly in Europe. Because they’ve watched Trump-like, right-wing populists in Turkey, Hungary, Poland, Russia and Belarus, as well as the Philippines, get themselves elected and then take control of their courts, media, internet and security institutions and use them to try to cripple their opponents and lock themselves into office indefinitely.

Democrats abroad feared that this same political virus would overtake America if Trump were re-elected and have a devastating effect.

They feared that the core democratic concept that America gifted to the world in 1800 — when John Adams lost his election to Thomas Jefferson and peacefully handed over the reins of power — was going to wither, undermining democracy movements across the globe. Every autocrat would have been emboldened to ignore red lights.

Seeing an American president actually try to undermine the results of a free and fair election “is a warning to democrats all over the world: Don’t play lightly with populists, they will not leave power easily the way Adams did when he lost to Jefferson,” the French foreign policy expert Dominique Moïsi remarked to me.

That is why Biden’s mission — and the mission of all decent conservatives — is not just to repair America. It is to marginalize this Trumpian version of the G.O.P. and help to nurture a healthy conservative party — one that brings conservative approaches to economic growth, infrastructure, social policy, education, regulation and climate change, but also cares about governing and therefore accepts compromises.

Democrats can’t summon a principled conservative party. That requires courageous conservatives. But Democrats do need to ask themselves why Trump remains so strong among white working-class voters without college degrees, and, in this last election, drew greater support from Black, Latino and white women voters.

There is a warning light flashing for Democrats from this election: They can’t rely on demographics. They need to make sure that every voter believes that the Democratic Party is a “both/and” party, not an “either/or” party. And they need to do it before a smarter, less crude Trump comes along to advance Trumpism.

They need every American to believe that Democrats are for BOTH redividing the pie AND growing the pie, for both reforming police departments and strengthening law and order, for both saving lives in a pandemic and saving jobs, for both demanding equity in education and demanding excellence, for both strengthening safety nets and strengthening capitalism, for both celebrating diversity and celebrating patriotism, for both making college cheaper and making the work of noncollege-educated Americans more respected, for both building a high border wall and incorporating a big gate, for both high-fiving the people who start companies and supporting the people who regulate them.

And they need to demand less political correctness and offer more tolerance for those who want to change with the times but need to get there their own ways — without feeling shamed into it.

We need our next presidential election to be fought between a principled center-right Republican Party and a “both/and” Democratic Party. Great countries are led from a healthy center. Weak countries don’t have one.





No.41 article:
The Thanksgiving Myth Gets a Deeper Look This Year

For many Native Americans, the Covid-19 toll and the struggle over racial inequity make this high time to re-examine the holiday, and a cruel history.

FORT PECK INDIAN RESERVATION, Mont. — On a frigid November morning inside a tractor barn in northeast Montana, 10 members of the Sioux and Assiniboine tribes joined in song to bless a thirty-aught-six hunting rifle, and to lift up the spirit of a buffalo they were preparing to kill. One man played a painted hand drum. Others passed around burning sage.

The hunt that followed took place on Turtle Mound Buffalo Ranch, 27,000 acres of rolling pasture on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation. Every stage of the hunt was marked by a ceremony to give thanks for a buffalo that descends from animals killed to near-extinction by white settlers in the late 19th century.

The mass killing was part of a government-approved effort to seize land from Native Americans who depended on the animal to survive. The brutality of settlers’ expansion into the Great Plains and American West has been drastically underplayed in popular myths about the founding and growth of the United States.

Arguably the best-known of those myths is the story of the first Thanksgiving, a holiday Robert Magnan, who led the buffalo hunt at Fort Peck, does not observe. “Thanksgiving is kind of like Columbus Day for Native people,” he said. “Why would we celebrate people who tried to destroy us?”

It is now widely accepted that the story of a friendship-sealing repast between white colonists and Native Americans is inaccurate. Articles debunking the tale have become as reliable an annual media ritual as recipes for cornbread stuffing.

But this year should be different, say Native American leaders, scholars and teachers.

The holiday arrives in the midst of a national struggle over racial justice, and a pandemic that has landed with particular force on marginalized communities of color. The crises have fueled an intense re-examination of the roots of persistent inequities in American life.

This Thanksgiving also comes on the heels of an election in which 110 American Indian and Alaska Native candidates ran for office, according to the National Congress of American Indians, and on the 400th anniversary of the Mayflower voyage.

Winona LaDuke, the Native American activist and writer who ran for vice president in 1996 and 2000 as Ralph Nader’s running mate, believes that the country is primed to re-envision Thanksgiving as an occasion to come to terms with the cruelty Native Americans have experienced throughout history.

“I’ve seen a growing awareness, a wake-up, to the systemic oppression of people of color,” said Ms. LaDuke, an enrolled member of the White Earth Ojibwe Nation. “There is a movement toward justice for Native people. People want to listen.”

Thanksgiving, of course, is a time for listening, a welcome opportunity for prayer, reflection and looking back, and many Indigenous people celebrate it in their own way. But the problem with its origin story, Ms. LaDuke and others say, goes beyond misrepresentations about what was served in Plymouth, Mass., in 1621. (There is no evidence that turkey was on the menu, and pie couldn’t have been, because there was no flour or butter available for crust.)

Linda Coombs is a Wampanoag historian and a member of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah), on Martha’s Vineyard, Mass. Wampanoag people attended the harvest ceremony that later became known as the first Thanksgiving.

“There was an event that happened in 1621,” Ms. Coombs said. “But the whole story about what occurred on that first Thanksgiving was a myth created to make white people feel comfortable.”

The caricature of friendly Indians handing over food, knowledge and land to kindhearted Pilgrims was reinforced for generations by school curriculums, holiday pageants and children’s books. These stories were among the few appearances made by Native Americans in popular historical narratives, effectively erasing history-altering crimes, like the killing of tens of millions of buffalo, from the country’s consciousness. That massacre led to the mass starvation of Indigenous people.

“Erasure isn’t taking down a conquistador statue,” said Ms. LaDuke, 61. “Erasure is when you don’t even know the name of the people who own the land where you live.”

Work to reverse this historical amnesia has spanned decades. The National Day of Mourning dates back to 1970, established on Thanksgiving by activists in New England to recognize the suffering of Native Americans. Fourteen states and the District of Columbia now celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ Day instead of Columbus Day, recasting a holiday that honored an explorer who presided over the enslaving and killing of Indigenous people.

Dana Thompson and her partner, Sean Sherman, an award-winning chef, are co-owners of the Sioux Chef, an organization in the Twin Cities devoted to revitalizing Native American cuisine. In the period between Indigenous People’s Day and Thanksgiving, she said she is “inundated with people who might have some awareness with the pain over the characterizations that comes with this time.”

She urges anyone who asks to focus on “the true Indigenous wisdom that is behind the philosophy of Thanksgiving — it’s about not taking, but about giving back.”

Today, it’s more common than it once was for stories by and about Native Americans to find mainstream audiences. Tommy Orange, a citizen of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Nations of Oklahoma, and David Heska Wanbli Weiden, an enrolled member of the Sicangu Lakota Nation, are two of the most critically acclaimed young novelists working now.

These developments follow years in which Native American history and culture gradually became more widely taught, in schools and elsewhere. Lyz Jaakola, 52, a member of the Fond du Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa, recalls the catharsis she felt as a young woman watching the movie “Addams Family Values,” a dark comedy released in 1993.

In one scene, the Wednesday character, cast as Pocahontas in a children’s Thanksgiving play, goes off script to take violent revenge on the Pilgrims. “You have taken the land which is rightfully ours,” she calmly seethes. “Years from now, my people will be forced to live in mobile homes on reservations. Your people will wear cardigans and drink highballs.”

“I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, other people get it, too,’” said Ms. Jaakola, a musician and teacher who was elected this month to the City Council in Cloquet, Minn. “They realize how ridiculous the whole image of Thanksgiving is.”

Christian Taylor-Johnson, 28, is a descendant of the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe in northern Minnesota, and attended Leech Lake Tribal College. He said the education he received wasn’t available to older relatives, who were forced to assimilate and prohibited from speaking their native language.

“I actually speak more Ojibwe than either of my parents,” Mr. Taylor-Johnson said.

Mr. Taylor-Johnson said his family’s Thanksgiving traditionally features dishes like turkey, wild rice, fry bread and green bean casserole, his personal favorite. In recent years, he has encouraged family members to use the holiday to acknowledge the plight of their ancestors.

“Last year, we called it Takesgiving,” he said.

Cross-generational education also occurs in non-Native American households. Alice Julier, director of the Center for Regional Agriculture, Food and Transformation at Chatham University, in Pittsburgh, has incorporated Native American history in her teaching for nearly 30 years.

She said there’s a term used in academic circles to describe what happens when students like hers bring new knowledge home for the holiday: the Thanksgiving massacre.

“You come home armed with this information about how the world works,” Dr. Julier said, “and then you come back to your professors and say, ‘Well, that didn’t go well.’”

Indigenous studies is growing increasingly popular in academia, particularly among scholars whose work sits, as Dr. Julier’s does, at the intersection of food, race, class and gender.

Hiʻilei Julia Hobart, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Texas at Austin, said current events allow students to see more clearly the shared legacies of African-Americans, many of whose enslaved ancestors were forced to work land stolen from Native Americans, whose agricultural know-how was also co-opted.

“I always start with histories of dispossession as a way of contextualizing why food sovereignty has become such an urgent contemporary project,” said Dr. Hobart, 39, a Kanaka Maoli from Hawaii who has a Ph.D. in food studies. “Now we have this understanding about the fragility of our food system that has come in the wake of the pandemic.”

She added that frontline food workers are disproportionately exposed to the virus, and that “those workers are mostly Black and brown.”

For most of her professional life, LeAnn Littlewolf didn’t give much thought to how past injustices affected the people she serves as an educator and activist. That changed after she attended the Food Sovereignty Summit last year in Green Bay, Wis.

“When I got back from the conference, I thought about how much land we used to have access to, and how much food we used to produce,” said Ms. Littlewolf, a member of the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe. “And I got so angry.”

Ms. Littlewolf has since led the American Indian Community Housing Organization in Duluth, Minn., where she serves as the economic development director, to build a rooftop garden at its headquarters and buy a former corner grocery. The group is in the process of converting the space into Niiwin Indigenous Foods Market, which will feature food from Native American producers on its shelves and on a deli menu.

“Native people haven’t had access to retail space,” said Ms. Littlewolf, 47. “We want our people to feed our people.”

That notion was part of what compelled Mr. Magnan, who led the hunt at Fort Peck, to help spearhead a long-term effort to restore buffalo to tribal lands across the United States and into Canada.

The project began more than 20 years ago. The buffalo, transported from Yellowstone National Park, descend from the few that survived the mass slaughter that, by the late 1800s, had reduced the population from more than 30 million to a few hundred. The first buffalo arrived at Fort Peck from Yellowstone in 2012.

“Native people feel that buffalo are our four-legged relatives,” said Mr. Magnan, 66. “By getting genetically pure buffalo, we’re getting our oldest ancestors back to us. They were here back before the United States was even a country.”

Mr. Magnan is director of the Fort Peck Tribes’ fish and game department, as well as its buffalo program. He oversees two herds. Revenue from the 250-head “business” herd, raised through the sale of buffalo and fees charged to hunters, is used to maintain the 350-head “cultural” herd, which the tribe plans to grow as part of its restoration effort.

The cultural herd passes through a quarantine system to prevent the spread of brucellosis, a disease feared by cattle ranchers. Fifty-five bulls graduated from the quarantine in July, and were distributed to 16 tribes in nine states.

“The ones that went to Alaska we dubbed Operation Buffalo Wings,” said Mr. Magnan, “because they rode on a plane from Seattle to Anchorage.”

Fort Peck tribal members enter a lottery for the right to hunt one buffalo from the cultural herd, which needs to be culled in order to keep it at the 350 head that the land will support; during this hunting season, from Sept. 15 to Dec. 20, Mr. Magnan leads at least one hunt every day. One of the primary benefits of the buffalo program is that it allows the Fort Peck community to feed its own.

“I told our tribal council, ‘What would ever happen if the government went bankrupt, or they cut these social programs, how would we feed our people?’” Mr. Mangan said. “Going back to being with the buffalo again would be one way.”

After blessing the rifle, Mr. Magnan led a convoy of four-by-four trucks over snow-covered hills in search of a buffalo to kill. He rode with Dana Buckles, whose Native name is White Dog. Mr. Buckles was asked by the lottery-winner, Larry Beauchamp, a tribal elder, to shoot the buffalo on his behalf.

The convoy stopped at the top of a hill overlooking dozens of grazing buffalo. The crack of the rifle was followed by a loud yelp. The men quickly drove down a steep incline to the fallen 1,400-pound animal.

Mr. Beauchamp tucked sage grass into the buffalo’s mouth and between its toes, as Mr. Buckles and his stepson, Roger White Jr. (Little Eagle), sang a song of thanks.

After loading the buffalo onto the back of a truck and driving it to a nearby hayfield, Mr. Magnan gutted it with a small knife and an electric saw. With impressive speed, he harvested the prized organs, some of which were placed in an empty Huggies diaper box. They, and the buffalo meat, will feed Mr. Beauchamp’s extended family through the winter.

“They say when Native people hunt buffalo, the coyotes starve,” said Mr. Magnan, gesturing to the relatively small pile of innards the group was leaving behind.

In another expression of ceremonial thanksgiving, Mr. Buckles and Mr. White ate pieces of the buffalo’s liver, still warm. Mr. White’s brother, Robert, let loose a war whoop as they chewed. In the cold morning air, it sounded like a cheer.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.



No.1 article:
Italy registers 753 Covid-related deaths; Pfizer vaccine '95% efficacy' – as it happened

Cases and deaths surge in Italy; new Pfizer vaccine data better than first reported; Swiss intensive care beds at full capacity

We are closing this blog now but you can follow all the updates at our new blog here:

The US has seen more than 250,000 deaths due to the coronavirus pandemic as a new swathe of data was released that pushed the stricken country over the grim landmark on Wednesday.

Latest figures from Johns Hopkins University showed that the number of people killed by Covid-19 is now 250,029.

The news comes amid record infections across the US with the Trump administration repeatedly failing to get a grip on the Covid-19 crisis. Most recently Trump has refused to concede he lost the presidential election to Joe Biden who this week said “more people may die” if he continues to hamper his transition.

A grim dispatch by Associated Press from a hospital in Tennessee where staff are struggling to cope:

Overwhelmed hospitals are converting chapels, cafeterias, waiting rooms, hallways, even a parking garage into patient treatment areas.

Staff members are desperately calling around to other medical centers in search of open beds. Fatigue and frustration are setting in among front-line workers.

Conditions inside the nation’s hospitals are deteriorating by the day as the coronavirus rages across the U.S. at an unrelenting pace and the death toll closes in on a quarter-million.

“We are depressed, disheartened and tired to the bone,” said Alison Johnson, director of critical care at Johnson City Medical Center in Tennessee, adding that she drives to and from work some days in tears.

The number of people in the hospital with Covid-19 in the U.S. has doubled in the past month and set new records every day this week. As of Tuesday, nearly 77,000 were hospitalized with the virus.

The front page of Thursday’s Guardian in the UK covers the possibility of relaxed lockdown rules over the Christmas period.

As tense South Australians swirled around Unley Shopping Centre on Wednesday afternoon trying to figure out what to buy for their first full lockdown – “screw essentials, I need ice-cream!” – council worker Anne Ross was standing in the long queue for the supermarket, calmly preparing for her third time around.

Ross had secured an exemption to enter SA from her home state of Victoria several weeks earlier, escorted by police to Adelaide, so she could grieve with relatives after her mother died.

Little did she anticipate how the tables would turn. “Now I’m stuck here,” she tells Guardian Australia with a laugh.

Uruguay is starting to see a worrying rise in cases, sparking concern among government officials that the country could reverse course after a long period of containing the pandemic.

The South American nation has confirmed just 4,208 positive cases and 68 deaths since the pandemic began, with voluntary quarantines, widespread tracing programs and random testing helping keep infection rates far lower than its South American neighbors.

However, cases have jumped in the last month, crossing 100 daily cases for the first time.

Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou has now opted for a government campaign to promote “responsible freedom,” with officials targeting young people ahead of the tourist season, calling on them to limit social gatherings and not share drinks.

“The health authorities make a special request to the population to reduce the circles of social contact and meeting times, the permanent use of face masks, physical distancing, ventilation and hygiene,” Uruguay’s national emergency system said.

Officials in the capital, Montevideo, where there are currently 449 active cases, are considering suspending celebrations for carnival, the country’s major festival set to begin in January.

Health Ministry officials have asked laboratories to increase their analysis capacity for coronavirus testing, potentially doubling the current rate of about 4,000 test per day if cases continue to rise. 

Brazil recorded 34,091 further confirmed cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours and 756 deaths, the country’s health ministry said.

Brazil has registered more than 5.9 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 167,455, according to ministry data. 

Canada is in talks with other governments about a plan to donate coronavirus vaccine shots to lower-income countries, sources told Reuters. 

Canada has made deals to buy more doses per capita than any other nation, according to researchers at the Duke Global Health Innovation Center in North Carolina. 

It is among a handful of wealthy nations that reserved billions of doses between them before late-stage trial data came in, ensuring they would get access even if only one or two vaccines worked. 

Canada could donate extra doses through the World Health Organization-backed COVAX facility, which would distribute them among recipient countries, said a Canadian government source. 

Separately, a COVAX source confirmed discussions were going on between Canada and other governments and organizations involved with COVAX, a facility created to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. 

Sources declined to be identified as the discussions are confidential. 

Asked about the issue in a parliamentary committee meeting on Monday, Deputy Procurement Minister Bill Matthews said Canada “would have options” if all seven suppliers had their vaccines approved but that it was “too early” for a plan.

Seven out of 10 pubs and restaurants in the UK fear they will become financially unviable and forced to close next year as a result of damaging Covid-19 restrictions, a poll has revealed.

The main trade bodies representing the beleaguered sector – the British Beer and Pub Association, the British Institute of Innkeeping and UKHospitality – said the new findings revealed that 72% of members expected to operate at a loss and to be unable to survive because of the collapse in trade.

Air France-KLM is among the airlines gearing up for the challenge of transporting millions of doses of temperature-sensitive Covid-19 vaccines in the midst of a travel slump. 

Breakthrough vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna have yet to win final approval, but the drugmakers, their logistics and cargo providers are not waiting for a green light to activate freight plans. 

“It’s going to be a major logistics challenge,” said Air France cargo chief Christophe Boucher, citing the “massive” volume of vaccines to be distributed globally. “Another difficulty is the temperature control,” Boucher said in an interview at ParisCharles de Gaulle airport - where cargo specialists were preparing to load consignments of super-cooled rabies vaccines bound for Brazil. 

The Covid-19 airlift is being planned amid a partial shutdown of global air travel. Airlines have warned that travel curbs could hamper the effort, since around 45% of global cargo typically travels in passenger plane holds.

Meanwhile, Pfizer Inc said it had offered to provide Brazil with millions of doses of the vaccine in the first half of 2021, amid evidence the coronavirus is spreading more rapidly in South America’s largest country. 

The WHO’s emergencies director has warned that vaccines would not arrive in time to defeat the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Pfizer said a completed study of its experimental vaccine showed it was 95 per cent effective, while fellow US firm Moderna said this week that its own candidate was 94.5 percent effective. Russia claims its candidate is more than 90 percent effective. 

The WHO’s Michael Ryan said vaccines should not be seen as a “unicorn” magic solution - and countries battling a resurgence of the virus would once again have to “climb this mountain” without them.

“I think it’s at least four to six months before we have significant levels of vaccination going on anywhere,” he said.

Despite recent promising announcements from final-phase candidate vaccine trials, “We’re not there with vaccines yet,” said Ryan.

“Many countries are going through this wave, and they’re going to go through this wave, and continue through this wave, without vaccines.

“We need to understand and internalise that, and realise: we have got to climb this mountain this time, without vaccines.”

The vaccines from Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc could be ready for US authorisation and distribution within weeks, setting the stage for inoculation to begin as soon as this year, U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.

“We now have two safe and highly effective vaccines that could be authorized by the Food and Drug Administration and ready to distribute within weeks,” Azar said. 

The World Health Organization has given its reaction to the latest developments regarding a potential vaccine.





No.2 article:
US engulfed in crisis as Covid death toll hits 250,000 – but there are signs of hope

The terrible landmark passed earlier than projected but some Republicans are finally waking up – giving Biden bipartisan room as he prepares to take office

Back in July, scientists predicted there would be 250,000 deaths in the US from Covid-19 by the year’s end. That terrible landmark has now been passed, earlier than projected, and amid a storm far more daunting than anyone could have anticipated.

A quarter of a million dead Americans. More than 11m confirmed cases. Coronavirus is out of control in America.

It is romping freely across the vast landmass of the US. Infection rates are surging in 44 of the 50 states, as the country enters the cold, dark winter which will force people back indoors and at the mercy of the virus.

All this is happening at a time when the president is so distracted by the electoral coup he is vainly attempting to pull off that he no longer even pretends to care about containing the disease.

Last week a new peak of more than 184,000 new cases was reported on a single day. That’s six times the total number of cases recorded in South Korea since the pandemic began.

With the number of infections soaring, the inevitable dance of death that has been performed on a loop in the US through the pandemic has started up once again. The first step is that hospitalizations start to rise – they have increased across the country by almost 48% in the past two weeks, according to the New York Times tracker, and now stand at almost 77,000 patients.

Next, hospitals begin to report that they are being overrun and that their ICUs are full to overflowing. When staffing levels become critically stretched, that’s when we’re in the danger zone.

At the end of the dance come the deaths. The level of fatalities has remained mercifully low compared with the April highs, a result of improved medical understanding of the virus, more effective treatments and hospitals that having been through the initial trauma are now better prepared.

But with states including Wisconsin, Minnesota, Montana, the Dakotas, Colorado and Georgia all reporting that their hospital systems are entering crisis mode – meaning that they will struggle to provide patients with the intensive care they need – it is only a matter of time before the death rate creeps up too.

As indeed it already is. About 1,500 Americans are currently dying each day from coronavirus-related causes, with the rate rising steadily in 30 states.

Within that daily toll of death and bereavement, there are specific tragedies that stem from America’s racial disparities. Recent research by APM Research Lab has found that African Americans, Latinos and indigenous people continue to die at three times the rate of white people. At least 1,375 deaths are US healthcare workers who died while treating or caring for Covid patients, according to Lost on the Frontline, a project launched by the Guardian and KHN to track healthcare worker deaths during the pandemic.

Eric Topol, professor of molecular medicine at Scripps Research in San Diego, summed up the mood among scientists at this grim landmark is crossed: “These metrics are off-the-chart horrendous,” he wrote. “Jumps like we’ve never seen in each category of new cases, hospitalizations and deaths.”

Over the past 10 months the world has become familiar with the negligence and disdain for science with which Donald Trump has approached the pandemic. His initial response was stuttering and mendacious, and instead of focusing on spearheading a federal push to control the contagion he weaponized the debate about masks as a political tool to be wielded as part of his re-election bid.

What we are seeing unfolding now is potentially far more serious than even the disaster over which he has presided thus far. While the country is being engulfed in crisis, Trump has gone awol, the equivalent in a pandemic of Franklin Roosevelt disappearing shortly before D-Day.

An analysis by Factbase of Trump’s tweets for the week following the election found that out of 202 posts, more than 80% related to his defeat to Joe Biden and the lie Trump is propagating that the election was stolen from him. Only 10 of the tweets referred to Covid, and of those none talked about the surge in cases, the enormous human suffering that entails, or what the American people can and should do about it.

In the same seven-day period, about 900,000 Americans contracted the disease and 7,500 died from it. Yet Trump remained completely oblivious to their plight.

The disconnect between Trump’s personal obsessions and the tumult facing the country he purportedly leads has never been as stark as it is today. All his energies are currently being expended on hanging on to the presidency, so that he can continue to do nothing to protect the American people from a microbe.

As CNN’s Jake Tapper put it, Trump “appears to be desperately, even pathetically, fighting to keep a job that he has no apparent interest in responsibly performing”.

It all bodes extremely badly for the next two months of the lame duck Trump presidency.

But at least there are signs of hope amid the gloom. Two vaccines under development in the US – by Pfizer and Moderna – have been found to be 95% effective in protecting against the disease, and could be rolled out to vulnerable populations as early as next month.

Some Republican politicians continue to follow Trump in his refusal to engage with the pandemic – notably Kristi Noem, the governor of South Dakota, which is ground zero in the current surge in infections. She has clung closely to the Trump playbook, brazenly insisting that her state is “doing good” even while it self-implodes, resisting mask mandates and pooh-poohing any talk of lockdowns.

Yet other Republicans though have finally begun to wake up to the need to act to contain the virus. Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio, announced a spate of new measures to enforce masks and social distancing, joining Democratic leaders in Chicago, New York and elsewhere who have similarly begun to batten down the hatches.

That will give the president-elect some bipartisan room for maneuver as he prepares to hit the ground running with his pandemic plan following his inauguration on 20 January. He will come into the White House armed with a mandate from voters to put tackling coronavirus as top priority of his new administration, having made it the centerpiece of his presidential campaign.

Early indications are that he fully intends to follow through on that electoral promise. His first act following his victory was to convene a 12-person coronavirus taskforce to advise him through the transition, drawn from a range of scientific specialisms including infectious diseases, public health and emergency medicine.

Biden also underlined the centrality of fighting coronavirus to his nascent presidency by appointing Ron Klain as his White House chief of staff. Klain is no stranger to the challenges of dealing with health emergencies – he was Barack Obama’s “Ebola tsar” in 2014.

Klain has studied closely the Trump administration’s mishandling of the pandemic, and can be expected to have learned the lessons. He has called the effort so far “a fiasco of incredible proportions”.

The US undoubtedly faces difficult times ahead, with the worst of the pandemic still to come. But the first green shoots are finally emerging of a strategic national and science-led offensive to wrestle the virus under control.





No.3 article:
Covid-19 has been five times as deadly as the deadliest flu season in the last 10 years. Here are key stats so far

More than a quarter of a million people are now dead from Covid-19 in the United States. The victims come from a variety of racial backgrounds, from different age groups, locations and occupations; and no state in the nation has been unaffected as the coronavirus pandemic took hold.

The largest public health emergency in a century also equates to an economic disaster, for the US and its industries as well as for families and individuals struggling to survive in the face of a strong resurgence of Covid-19 this fall and winter.

This is the story of the pandemic in numbers and the tragic toll it has taken in terms of lives and livelihoods lost.

250,029 people killed by the virus in the US, according to Johns Hopkins University. 

11,485,176 confirmed cases in the US. 

For every 10 women who have died from the virus, there have been 13 male fatalities, according to the Sex, Gender and Covid-19 Project coalition. A total of 3.51% of men who have contracted Covid-19 have died, compared to 2.76% of women, despite females accounting for almost 52% of confirmed cases.

75% of deaths are people 65 and older, according to CDC figures, lower than the 80% peak earlier in the pandemic. Incidence into the fall season was highest among the 20-29 age group, accounting for greater than 20% of new infections.

Covid-19 diagnoses of children in the US have surpassed 1 million, the American Academy of Pediatrics reported Monday (16 November), though the CDC says fatalities in those 24 and younger are fewer than 500.

Black, indigenous and Latino Americans are dying from the virus at a rate at least triple that of whites, after age adjustments, according to Amp Research Lab’s Color of Coronavirus project. One in 875 black Americans and one in 925 Indigenous Americans are dead, the only two ethnic groups with more than 100 deaths per 100,000 population.

CDC figures show blacks also have higher rates of hospitalization, 4.7 times greater than that of white non-Hispanics. Most affected are Native American or Alaska Native persons, admitted to hospital 5.3 times more often than whites.

State figures collated by Kaiser Family Foundation show wide disparities in the racial makeup of cases and deaths. For example, blacks in Washington DC make up 45% of the population but account for 75% of deaths.

Almost 40% of deaths across the US have been nursing home residents or workers, a New York Times tracker reports, even though long-term care facilities account for only 6% of cases. In 17 states at least one half of all Covid-19 deaths are linked to nursing homes.

At least 1,375 frontline medical workers are known to have died due to Covid-19, according to Lost on the Front Line, an interactive tracker hosted by the Guardian and Kaiser Health News.

Almost 30,000 food production workers have been infected or exposed, and at least 238 have died, the majority employees of meat plants, according to the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.

One-fifth of the 137 reported deaths of inmates in federal prisons, a total of 26, came at Butner correctional facility in North Carolina. Bureau of Prisons figures show about 20,000 inmates and 2,000 staff have been infected.

Donald Trump’s April promise that 5m Covid-19 tests a day would be carried out “very soon” in the US fell way short of the mark, the total finally climbing above 1.6m for the first time on 13 November, according to the Covid Tracking Project.

Worryingly, the positivity rate of new cases is showing a disproportionate rise back towards 10%, more than double the June low of 4.1%.

Newer “rapid” antigen tests for Covid-19 have proven less reliable than established polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests using a long nasal swab. Molecular PCR testing takes longer for results, but can detect all active infections that the instant tests can miss. Antigen tests have a higher incidence of false negatives.

Hospitalizations are surging again, placing extra pressure on resources, accommodations and healthcare workers. Patients currently hospitalized passed 60,000 for the first time on 10 November, the Covid Tracking Project reported, climbing to 70,000 only six days later.

Vaccinations against Covid-19 could begin by the end of the year, the US government says, after significant recent breakthroughs by two pharmaceutical companies. Moderna announced its vaccine had a 94.5% success rate – “as good as it gets” according to Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s leading infectious diseases expert. Pfizer’s vaccine is more than 90% effective.

Severe logistical challenges and a crisis of public confidence will need to be overcome to ensure the success of one of the largest mass vaccination efforts in history. The US military will help distribute vaccines but allocations will be based on population, not the availability of healthcare workers to administer it. Also, almost a year of coronavirus misinformation from Donald Trump has eroded trust in official messaging.

Therapeutics touted by Trump as a cure for coronavirus have “little or no effect”, the World Health Organization says. Trump took remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon in hospital in October, claiming experimental antibodies had “wiped out” the virus. The WHO says one study it coordinated, which spanned 30 countries, showed the drugs do not appear to affect mortality or progression of the virus.

The total economic cost of the coronavirus pandemic in the US through fall 2021 is estimated at $16tn, or 90% of gross domestic product (GDP), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says.

More than 11.1 million Americans were unemployed in October, a drop of 1.5 million from the previous month but still almost double the pre-pandemic figure from February of 5.8 million.

6.9% was the official unemployment rate in October, down from an April peak of 14.7%, but also double the February rate. The coronavirus resurgence nationwide raises the prospect of new lockdowns and a further slowing, or reversal, of the economic recovery.

About 3.6 million Americans have been out of work for six months or longer, and face losing benefits in December. Federal Cares Act funding expired in September, and in the absence of a further economic stimulus package from Congress, additional pandemic relief programs will end next month.

Black workers were laid off more, and hired back less, than white workers, according to research from the Rand Corporation. More than 7% of previously employed black workers are no longer in the labor force.

Almost 100,000 small businesses have now closed permanently, representing 60% of businesses that shuttered temporarily during the pandemic, an economic impact study by Yelp shows.

Tens of thousands more businesses will close and millions more jobs will be lost this winter if Congress fails to agree on a new aid package, business analysts fear.

One in six restaurants, employing more than 3 million workers, are in permanent or long-term closure, according to the National Restaurant Association, and the industry expects to lose $240bn by the end of the year.

US air carriers furloughed a further 38,000 workers when Cares Act payroll support funding expired 30 September and warn of more job losses to come. At least 43 commercial airlines have failed this year, travel data company Cirium found.

Up to 12 million Americans have lost their job-based health insurance, the Economic Policy Institute found.

The US supreme court could strip protections for up to 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions if it invalidates the Affordable Care Act, meaning those who have contracted Covid-19 might no longer be covered. 20 million Americans could lose health insurance altogether.

As many as 7 million people who have already lost coverage could be unable to find new insurance, according to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

Food prices are up 4% compared with a year ago, according to the most recent figures from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. Essentials such as meats, poultry, fish and eggs were up 6.1%, driven by reduced supply and surging demand. Prices of food consumed away from home recorded the largest 12-month increase since May 2009.

Food insecurity has soared through the pandemic, with the nation’s largest food bank in Texas reporting a doubling in demand for its services, to 800,000 pounds of food distributed per day. Feeding America reports that millions of Americans are forced to choose between paying rent or buying groceries.





No.4 article:
US passes 250,000 deaths from coronavirus

Latest figures from Johns Hopkins University showed that the number of people killed by the virus is now 250,180.

The news comes amid record infections across the US, with the Trump administration repeatedly failing to get a grip on the Covid-19 crisis. Most recently Trump has refused to concede he lost the presidential election to Joe Biden who this week said “more people may die” if he continues to hamper his transition.

More than 11 million Americans have been infected during the pandemic, by far the largest total in the world; the US also has the highest death toll, and is among the worst-hit of developed nations in terms of its death rate.

For the past two weeks more than 100,000 people have been infected every day as the country has seen huge rises in positive cases in almost every state, but especially in the midwest and Great Plains states.

Earlier on Wednesday, in a sign of the increasing lockdown steps being taken around the US, officials announced that public schools in New York City will close again, on Thursday, after the city reached a 3% Covid test positivity rate.

Case rates are surging in states and cities around the country. In California this week, the governor announced he was pulling the “emergency brake” on reopening, while Los Angeles is bracing for a mandatory curfew.

Hopes of relief on the horizon have grown after the makers of two leading vaccine candidates announced their drugs are far more effective than initially predicted. But these vaccines are months away and will face complex logistical challenges.

Experts are sounding warnings the country could face a difficult winter if safety measures are not widely adopted.

Michael Osterholm, an adviser to President-elect Joe Biden, told NBC recently: “We are in a very dangerous period – the most dangerous public health period since 1918.”

Critics say the Trump administration has all but surrendered to the pandemic especially now that he is a lame duck president with little political motivation to take tough measures. Trump has not attended a coronavirus taskforce meeting in “at least five months”, the public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci said last weekend.

Fauci recommends “uniform wearing of masks” to help curb the US outbreak, he told CNN on Tuesday.

On Monday Fauci told NBC’s Today that “by the end of December there will be doses of vaccine available for individuals in the high-risk category” from both Moderna and Pfizer.

He added: “The fact that help is on the way should spur us even more to double down on some of the public health measures, to be able to use the combination of a vaccine and public health measures to turn this thing around. We can do it.”

Trump has declined to enforce mitigation measures such as mask-wearing and social distancing, and said his administration will not implement any further lockdowns. He has also refused to participate in the transition process, meaning information on Covid-19 is not being shared with Biden, who has appointed his own pandemic advisory group.

The president remained silent on the milestone, instead spending the evening continuing to push baseless claims of election fraud on Twitter.

On Wednesday, a White House taskforce report warned of “aggressive, unrelenting, broad community spread across the country, without evidence of improvement but, rather, further deterioration”.

The report, which was leaked widely to the media, added: “Current mitigation efforts are inadequate and must be increased.”

Across the US, there is a patchwork response by local state governments. Some states are implementing tighter controls, such as California, Washington, Minnesota and Maryland, where healthcare systems are under serious strain. Oregon and New Mexico have implemented new social restrictions, while North Dakota has introduced a mask mandate. From Monday, the Navajo Nation will enter a three-week stay-at-home advisory period.

However, other hard-hit states, such as South Dakota, have taken little action to combat the new surge of the virus even as it stretches their hospital network to the limits.

Kentucky, meanwhile, announced new restrictions on gatherings on Wednesday. Speaking at a news conference the governor, Andy Beshear, said that “when fighting Covid-19, action is unpopular, but inaction is deadly”.





No.5 article:
'Some people think that vaccines will be, in a sense, the solution, the unicorn we've all been chasing,' he said during a virtual briefing in Geneva on Wednesday, warning other measures such as social distancing needed to be maintained.&nbsp;

It comes after positive efficacy results from late-stage trials of two potential Covid-19 vaccines





No.6 article:
Local councils expecting rules to be tighter than three-tier system but to allow shops to stay open

Ministers are expected to announce a tougher system of regional coronavirus rules for England next week to let families see each other at Christmas, as scientists warned that every day of festive respite would require five days of restrictions.

Further data on the impact of the England-wide lockdown which ends on 2 December is needed before the government makes a final decision, but documents outlining possible amended tiers within the traffic light-style system are understood to have been circulated to some departments.

Local authorities are expecting them to be tighter than the previous three-tier system, but to allow all shops to stay open.

A key decision will come over pubs and restaurants, with hospitality industries warning that even restrictions similar to the old tier 2, which barred indoor mixing between households, will have a disastrous effect. A members’ survey conducted by four pub and hospitality organisations and released on Wednesday showed that under tier 2 restrictions 76% of businesses said they would be unviable.

Boris Johnson faces a row over the prospect of emerging from lockdown into stricter tiers, however. His scientific advisers insist a more robust regime is needed but some Conservative MPs warned that they would not accept restrictions being relaxed only for a few days over the festive period, saying: “Freedom cannot just be for Christmas.”

Johnson has promised MPs a vote on the next set of rules, and while Labour’s support all but guarantees they will pass through the Commons, it would be deeply uncomfortable for the prime minister if this was needed.

At a Downing Street briefing on Wednesday, Dr Susan Hopkins from Public Health England (PHE) said that to keep the epidemic under control any relaxation over Christmas would need to be balanced by tough restrictions on socialising before and afterwards.

Hopkins said previous advice from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), the government’s expert committee, noted that for every day restrictions were eased, they would need to be tightened again for two days more.

But a subsequent statement from PHE said Hopkins “misspoke” and that modelling in fact showed that an estimated five days of restrictions would be needed for every one day of relaxation.

Hopkins said: “Hopefully, the government will make a decision that will allow us to have some mixing, but we will wait and see what that is. And then I think once we have got past the Christmas period, if there’s been a release on some socialisation, we will all have to be very responsible and reduce contacts again.”

Data released at the briefing show that the R number – the number of people each infected person goes on to infect – has come down since the beginning of October, largely attributed to the strictest, tier 3, restrictions put in place before the latest lockdown, principally in the north of England.

On Wednesday, the number of people reported to have tested positive for coronavirus across the UK fell below 20,000 for the first time in more than two weeks, while deaths fell slightly to 529. But the number of people hospitalised with Covid-19 looks set to exceed the peak of the first wave within days, raising fears of the NHS becoming overwhelmed and more non-urgent procedures being suspended.

No 10 has stressed the intention to allow a relaxation of rules over Christmas, dependent on the new data, but has refused to say what this would involve, or how many people or households would be allowed to meet, and in what settings.

“We accept it won’t be a normal Christmas, but the PM has been clear in his desire for families to be able to see each other,” the prime minister’s spokesman said on Wednesday. “I’m not going to be able to set out any plans now, we’ll do that next week, and that will be based on the best and latest data that is available to us.”

Responding to the Downing Street briefing, MPs from the Covid Recovery Group, a collection of around 50 Conservative backbenchers who are sceptical about renewed lockdown, expressed concern at the scientists’ advice.

Mark Harper, the former chief whip who chairs the group, said the country “needs a different and enduring strategy for living with the virus that lasts beyond Christmas”, adding: “We cannot keep living under a cycle of lockdowns and restrictions that expect people to be grateful for being let out to enjoy the festive season, only to have strict restrictions imposed on them afterwards that cause them health problems and destroy their livelihoods.”Steve Baker, the deputy chair, said: “Freedom cannot just be for Christmas. Lockdowns and restrictions cause immense economic, social and non-Covid health damage, and we’ve got to start talking about those so that we know the restrictions we’re being asked to live under are not causing more harm than good to our citizens.”





No.7 article:
If coronavirus cases in the county continue to rise, officials will implement the 10pm curfew and a three-week lockdown 

Los Angeles county imposed new restrictions on businesses Tuesday and is readying plans for a mandatory curfew and new stay-at-home order if coronavirus cases keep rising.

The county of 10 million residents – the nation’s most populous – has seen daily confirmed cases more than double in the last two weeks to nearly 2,900. Hospitalizations have topped 1,100, a rise of 30% in that period.

Starting Friday, nonessential retail businesses in the county will have to limit indoor capacity to 25% and restaurants to 50% capacity outdoors. Those businesses will have to close at 10pm.

The new rules in the county and warnings of a potential return to lockdown come as other counties across California have been forced to reinstate restrictions due to a surge in cases over the last 10 days and as some of its leaders have faced scrutiny for not abiding by guidelines themselves. The first week of November saw the fastest rate of increase in cases in the state since the beginning of the crisis.

In Los Angeles county, in addition to new restaurant guidelines, services at salons and other personal care businesses may only be provided by appointment and customers and staff must wear face coverings. Services such as facials that require customers to remove their face coverings are not permitted. All gatherings must be outdoors and limited to 15 people from no more than three households.

The county also warned of increasingly restrictive policies if cases keep rising. If the five-day average of cases tops 4,000 or hospitalizations are above 1,750 per day, outdoor restaurant dining will be banned.

If cases reach 4,500 per day or hospitalizations top 2,000, the county will impose a three-week lockdown that will restrict people to their homes for all but essential services. A nighttime curfew for all but essential workers would run from 10pm to 6am.

“Los Angeles county is at a critical moment to save lives and curb the spread of Covid-19,” said Barbara Ferrer, director of public health. “Lives and livelihoods are at stake and our entire community will be affected by our collective action if we do the right thing.”

The Los Angeles mayor, Eric Garcetti, on Monday urged residents to stay home as much as possible to slow the spread.

“This is a different kind of moment, a new level of danger,” Garcetti said. “If we don’t make these decisions now, there really is only one outcome: we will almost certainly have to shut things down again. And more people will get sick and die.”

Los Angeles county has had a disproportionately large share of California’s cases of the pandemic, but cases across the state are rising.

On Monday, the California governor, Gavin Newsom, deployed an “emergency brake” amid a troubling rise in cases in the state, returning more than 94% of California’s population and most businesses across the state to the most restrictive tier of rules aimed at slowing the spread of the virus.

The state is also strengthening its guidance on masks; Newsom announced face coverings would now be required outside people’s homes with limited exceptions.

In Orange county, south of LA, more than 1,500 residents have died from Covid-19, but some local leaders have criticized state restrictions this week despite rising infections. The region is one of the most conservative parts of the state and has been the site of frequent protests this year against Covid-19 regulations and stay-at-home orders.

Meanwhile, top lawmakers in the state are facing national backlash over recent missteps. Newsom was forced to apologize after it was reported he had dined with several other couples at a restaurant for a birthday dinner.

On Tuesday, photos of Newsom’s gathering leaked, showing him seated close to others without masks. It was also revealed this week that some California legislators had traveled to Hawaii for a conference, despite national travel warnings due to Covid-19.





No.8 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Hospitals report lack of specialists and some citizens turning against health workers as death toll surges 

Italian hospitals are struggling with a shortage of intensive care specialists as the country battles a severe coronavirus second wave, while some citizens are also turning against health workers.

Covid-related deaths rose by 731 on Tuesday – the highest daily toll since early April, when Italy was in complete lockdown – and by 753 on Wednesday, as weaknesses in the healthcare system across the country become more exposed.

According to a study by Johns Hopkins University in the US, Italy has recorded four deaths per 100 infections - the third highest rate in the world. Tuesday’s count equated to one death every two minutes.

Admissions to intensive care units have almost doubled to 3,612 since 1 November and the number of people in hospital with coronavirus – 33,074 – has eclipsed that reached during the first wave.

But while Italy has almost doubled the availability of intensive care beds to 9,931 and increased the number of ventilators, only 625 more anaesthetists and resuscitators have been hired since the beginning of the pandemic.

“Beds and ventilators have increased but staff figures have practically stayed the same,” said Giovanni Leoni, the vice-president of the Italian order of doctors.

“And those who are there have a much heavier workload. This is the biggest problem as it’s not easy to find anaesthetists, or nurses able to work in critical care, as it’s such a specialism.”

Many medics have chosen to leave the profession or take early retirement after the trauma experienced in the spring, while some of those working relentlessly have become targets of aggression as some people vent their anger at the healthcare system over the ongoing pandemic.

“We went from being celebrated as heroes to being plague-carriers,” said Giacomo Grasselli, the head of intensive care at Milan’s Policlinico hospital. “Now we’re seen as the ones responsible for the restrictive measures, taking away people’s freedom, and the economic consequences.”

callout-coronavirus

Much like in other countries, Italians clapped and sang from their balconies as they supported healthcare workers during the early days of the pandemic.

Then came a rise in discrimination as people considered them to be carriers of the virus. According to a survey led by Grasselli and other colleagues in Lombardy in the spring, 25% of the 627 medics interviewed across the region reported being targets of discrimination or aggression.

Episodes included having notices with their names on pinned outside lifts in apartment buildings warning them not to enter as they might have Covid, parents banning their children from playing with those of medics, and spouses being barred from shops.

Doctors have also had their car windows smashed and in some cases police intervention was needed. More recently, a mural dedicated to healthcare workers outside Milan’s Sacco hospital was defaced.

And even though a survey on Tuesday showed 61% of Italians still trusted their health system, some people are angry at the professionals who reveal how dire the situation is in hospitals, preferring to believe those who downplay the virus.

Medics have also been accused of earning more money if they treat Covid patients.

“Paradoxically, it’s more difficult to work now than it was in March or April,” added Grasselli. “We warn that if the infection rate doesn’t come down then we’ll run out of beds, and based on that the politicians decide. But then someone else goes on TV and says we’re terrorising people and it’s all an exaggeration, and so people struggle to understand and become less tolerant of healthcare workers.”

Doctors are also facing legal action from bereaved relatives.

“We expected this … but we’re also working in non-conventional ways,” said Grasselli. “We were already carrying the weight of the psychological consequences of what happened in the spring – treating people who couldn’t see their relatives, who couldn’t breathe and then making the call to say they had died – before having to start again.

“But we are trying to cure people and we need solidarity and collaboration from everyone so that we can get through this horrible situation together.”

Italy registered over 32,000 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday. Lombardy is still the worst affected region but while the pandemic was mostly constricted to the north during the first wave, the virus is now raging across the country and seriously testing the ability of hospitals, especially those in the poorer south, to deal with it.

Italy is persisting with a tiered system, which imposes varying levels of restrictions across its 20 regions according to factors including the Covid transmission rate, hospital efficiency and availability of intensive care beds, despite repeated calls from medics for a complete lockdown.

The second wave has already killed 9,000 people across the country, and doctors warned last week that there will be an additional 10,000 deaths by early December unless more aggressive measures are implemented.





No.9 article:
10,000 pro-democracy protesters march on Thai police HQ

Building sprayed with paint and water pistols to protest against police use of tear gas and water cannon

At least 10,000 pro-democracy protesters marched on Thailand’s police headquarters on Wednesday, spraying it with paint and water pistols, a day after violent clashes in which six people were shot and dozens more injured.

Protest leaders condemned the police for using chemical-laced water cannon and teargas against them, chanting “slaves of tyranny” and “our taxes”, and pelting paint at their compound. Some sprayed toy water guns to protest against the police response.

A rally on Tuesday, held outside parliament as legislators considered proposals to reform the constitution, was marked by the highest number of injuries of any demonstration since the youth-led protest movement emerged in July. Several MPs fled from the riverside parliament on boats as royalists clashed with demonstrators. Later in the night, gunshots were fired.

Despite the violence, at least 10,000 people packed into the Ratchaprasong intersection in Bangkok on Wednesday, where protesters vowed to step up their movement. As crowds gathered outside the police headquarters, a speaker chanted: “Down with feudalism, down with dictatorship.”

“We don’t have weapons, we don’t have the army,” said Thanisorn, a 22-year-old protester, who held a children’s water pistol. But she added: “I felt I have to come out to tell them I’m not afraid of them. We are stronger than them.”

“The people have already woken up. It’s not the propaganda age any more,” she said, adding that people want change.

The pro-democracy protest movement is one of the biggest challenges facing the Thai establishment in living memory. Protest leaders have shocked the country by demanding reforms to the monarchy, an institution long considered beyond direct, public criticism. They believe its powers should be curbed, and that it should no longer be protected by harsh defamation laws. They are also calling for the removal of the prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former army general who first took power in a 2014 coup, and for reforms to the constitution, which was passed under military rule.

Since Tuesday, legislators have been considering several proposals to change the charter, but a draft favoured by the protesters was rejected, despite receiving support from about 100,000 members of the public. The draft, unlike other proposals, did not rule out changes relating to the monarchy. It also stated that the 250 military-appointed senators should be replaced with elected officials.

Two motions to set up a constitution drafting committee did pass, but they will have to go through second and third votes after at least a month.

“The country is not democratic as the government likes to say,” said Oat, 27, who joined Wednesday’s protest after work. “I want a government that listens to the people’s wants and demands.”

If the king cared about calls for reform, he added, “he would have reduced his power through the parliament”.

Protest leaders plan to intensify pressure on the authorities by holding seven days of rallies, starting with a major demonstration outside the Crown Property Bureau on Wednesday. In 2017, King Maha Vajiralongkorn took direct control of the CPB, which is thought to be worth £30bn.

Many attending Wednesday’s protest wore helmets, goggles and hard hats for protection, though the evening passed without violence. Giant inflatable ducks – which were used on Tuesday by protesters to shield them from water cannon and have since been adopted as a protest symbol – were passed along the crowds.

“We should not be afraid – this is just a transitional moment in our history,” Sirapop Poompuengpoot, a student leader, told the crowds.

A police spokesman said water cannon were used on Tuesday because protesters were attempting to break into a restricted area near to parliament. Police have also said they had not fired either live rounds or rubber bullets, and that they were investigating who was behind the shootings of six people.

The Thai Human Rights Lawyers Association has condemned the police tactics, saying they were “not in accordance with international procedure to disperse demonstrations”.

Kan, 21, who came to Wednesday’s rally with a friend, said the police crackdown made her even more determined to turn out. “I am worried but right now what we demand, what we said we would fight for, is not achieved. We have to fight.”





No.10 article:
At a press briefing on Tuesday, Dr Amy Williams, dean of clinical practice at the hospital, said that the vast majority of staff who were infected – 93% – were not infected at work, according to the St Paul Pioneer Press. Most of those who were infected at work contracted the virus while eating without a mask during their breaks, Williams said.

The hundreds of employees who have contracted the virus over the last two weeks make up over a third of all employees who were infected since the start of the pandemic. The hospital is experiencing a shortage of 1,000 employees at its headquarters in Rochester, according to the Pioneer Press.

“It shows you how easy it is to get Covid-19 in the midwest,” Williams said during a press call. “Our staff are being infected mostly due to community spread, and this impacts our ability to care for patients.”

The hospital did not say whether any of those infected had died from the virus. Lost on the Frontline, a joint effort by the Guardian and Kaiser Health News, is investigating the deaths of 1,396 healthcare workers who appear to have died of Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic.

Covid-19 cases have been rising across the country as the dreaded winter surge in cases has arrived. Yesterday, 161,000 new cases in the US were reported, and 76,830 people were reported to be currently hospitalized with the virus across the country.

Minnesota has seen a particularly alarming spike in cases over the last few weeks. The seven-day moving average for new cases in the state was 7,402 on Tuesday, the highest it has been in the state, according to Johns Hopkins University. The governor is anticipated to enact new restrictions on social gatherings and businesses such as bars and restaurants amid the influx.

Williams emphasized that hospitals in the midwest were “really stretched” and “many are absolutely full”. The Mayo hospital in Rochester has filled all of the 32 ICU beds it designated for Covid-19 patients. “We have 32 Covid patients needing tertiary care” – meaning sophisticated specialty care – “and that’s not good. It tells us we’re in a surge.” 





No.11 article:
We can&#x27;t afford to wait for the perfect vaccine

The UK must use safe vaccines as soon as they become available, not wait for the ‘very best’ to come along, writes the deputy chief medical officer, Professor Jonathan Van-Tam

I was concerned about the tone and accuracy of your story which appeared on the front page of the Guardian newspaper (Government admits millions may miss out on most effective vaccine, 12 November).

This headline, which I view as both misleading and sensationalist, occurred due to a lack of understanding. Vaccines against Covid-19 will not all come at once, or in large quantities in all cases. Nor will they be delivered in volumes or over timeframes we can fully predict currently, and their storage characteristics may differ. We will have to use the vaccines that are authorised, in the quantities they become available, according to expert advice. We should use them as soon as we get them. If the choice is between the eligible public accessing a safe vaccine with a lower interim efficacy or having no vaccine at all, we would always choose the former as some protection is absolutely better than no protection.

This is the approach that will save lives. Waiting for the “very best” vaccine, which may not come for some time, bearing in mind some future vaccines in development may yet fail, will cost lives.

It is oversimplistic to imply that any vaccines are “superior” or “inferior”. The results we will have initially for any vaccine will pertain to efficacy determined over a relatively short timeframe. A vaccine with slightly lower headline efficacy than another may prove to be the one that offers more durable protection or a greater effect on transmission. Comparing vaccines based on a single interim estimate of effectiveness is therefore a mistake.

The UK has targeted seven vaccines, procuring, over time, a total of 355m doses for the UK population, and vaccine effectiveness will be closely monitored in real time.

As UK citizens, we are incredibly lucky we will be one of the very first nations to get a vaccine, and if some of the later vaccines we have targeted also succeed we will have multiple options for re-vaccination if this becomes scientifically necessary in the future.Professor Jonathan Van-TamDeputy chief medical officer, Department of Health and Social Care





No.12 article:
Violent clashes in Uganda after pop star politician detained

Security forces clash with supporters of Bobi Wine after he was held for breaching Covid-19 rules before rally

Security forces in Uganda have fought running battles with supporters of the popular Ugandan reggae singer and opposition presidential hopeful Bobi Wine after the 38-year-old was arrested for breaching Covid-19 regulations shortly before a rally.

Police arrested Wine, who is hoping to unseat Uganda’s long-time leader, Yoweri Museveni, in the eastern town of Luuka.

Supporters immediately took to the streets in the centre of Kampala, the capital, building barricades and lighting tyres. Protests were reported to be spreading to other cities and towns on Wednesday evening.

In violent clashes, dozens were reported to have been hit by live rounds fired by police and as many as eight killed.

Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, said police had violently broken into his vehicle and taken him into custody.

“The price of freedom is high but we shall certainly overcome …. Resistance against tyranny is not only a right. It is a DUTY for oppressed people to carry out!” Wine said in a series of tweets following his arrest.

Wine has been attracting massive crowds and his campaign has rattled the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM).

Earlier this month, he was temporarily blinded by police when he was arrested moments after being successfully certified as a candidate in next year’s election.

Security forces have frequently fired teargas at his rallies and detained and beaten his supporters.

In a statement issued before Wine’s detention on Wednesday, police had warned that presidential candidates would be arrested if they flouted guidelines limiting attendance at rallies to 200 people during the Covid-19 pandemic.

Moses Kafeero, the Kampala police commander, said Wine had “continuously violated electoral guidelines on Covid-19” and had been taken in for questioning.

“As law enforcement, we can’t stand and watch as politicians put the lives of Ugandans at stake by encouraging processions and huge rallies, which fuel Covid-19 transmission,” Kafeero said.

Known by supporters as “the ghetto president”, Wine is one of a new generation of politicians across Africa who are challenging long-time leaders, hoping to harness deep dissatisfaction among younger, more educated and often urban voters.

He broke into formal politics in 2017 when he won a seat in Uganda’s national assembly, and has been since been badly assaulted and detained many times.

David Lewis Rubongoya, secretary general of Wine’s National Unity Platform party, said the arrest of Wine was unfair as Museveni and his supporters had been holding mass rallies.

“It’s not about Covid-19. It’s about repression … People are very angry and they are very right to be angry. People are tired of the double standards; they are tired of the oppression and dictatorship that has caused all these problems in the country,” Rubongoya said.

Museveni, 76, is eligible to seek another term next year after lawmakers removed constitutional age limits on the presidency. The former rebel leader’s party insists he remains its most popular member.

Uganda has never witnessed a peaceful transfer of power since independence in 1962.





No.13 article:
We would like to hear from the families of loved ones who have found the shift online during the pandemic difficult

With the coronavirus pandemic came a shift online for many people as they were asked to stay at home. Some older people, especially those who live alone, have found this change difficult.

We would like to hear if your neighbours or loved ones have struggled with the digital change. How are they paying for their bills? What about health services? Are they able to stay in touch online with friends and family?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.14 article:
Surprise at US move to drop drug charges against ex-Mexican minister

Decision seen as reward from Trump to Mexican counterpart for election support

A shock US decision to drop charges against a former Mexican defence minister accused of drug trafficking and money laundering has sparked celebration, consternation and bewilderment.

Gen Salvador Cienfuegos was arrested at Los Angeles airport last month and accused of being at the heart of a multimillion dollar conspiracy to smuggle huge shipments of drugs into the US.

Prosecutors alleged that during his six-year stint at the head of Mexico’s military, the 72-year-old had taken bribes to help a shadowy cartel shift “thousands of kilograms of cocaine, heroin, marijuana and methamphetamine” north over the border. He has denied the charges.

Cienfuegos was the most senior Mexican official to have been arrested for such crimes and the case shook the political and military establishment in Latin America’s second biggest economy.

However, on Tuesday, in a startling twist, the US justice department announced it would seek to have the charges against Cienfuegos dismissed.

Prosecutors told the judge “sensitive and important foreign policy considerations outweigh the government’s interest in pursuing the prosecution of the defendant”.

A judge in New York approved the petition on Wednesday morning, despite what she called “very serious charges against a very significant figure”, meaning the general can now return to Mexico.

Cienfuego’s lawyers were overjoyed, telling Vice News it was a victory for “a man who has done so much good for his government and his community”.

Mexico’s foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, also welcomed what he called a “gesture of respect” towards Mexico and its armed forces, not a “path towards impunity” for an alleged criminal.

Ebrard denied the decision was linked to the US election, the result of which Mexico’s nationalist leader, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has yet to recognise.

The decision not to acknowledge Joe Biden’s victory has led some to interpret the US decision to ditch its case against Cienfuegos as a reward from Donald Trump to his Mexican counterpart.

Mike Vigil, the Drug Enforcement Administration’s former chief of international operations, told AP the “absolutely discouraging and disappointing” decision was “a huge gift” from Trump.

Fernando Belaunzarán, a senior official from the Mexican president’s former party, told the Wall Street Journal: “There is no doubt that this is Trump’s last favour to López Obrador, it’s the culmination of their beautiful friendship.”

Those claims left analysts wondering why Mexico’s government was so keen to repatriate Cienfuegos, who underworld contacts allegedly called “El Padrino” or “the Godfather”.

“We don’t know,” the security expert Alejandro Hope wrote in the newspaper El Universal on Wednesday, “but it’s quite possible pressure from the armed forces played a decisive role.”

Mexico’s military top brass – a crucial source of support for López Obrador’s two-year-old administration – was thought to have been apoplectic at Cienfuegos’s arrest on foreign soil, potentially placing the president under intense pressure to act.

Chris Dalby, the managing editor of InSight Crime, said that for López Obrador the return home of Cienfuegos represented a political victory of sorts.

“Among his supporters there was an outcry that Cienfuegos had been arrested without the knowledge of the Mexican government. So certainly bringing Cienfuegos back will play well to his base.”

But the US U-turn also raised uncomfortable questions about impunity and corruption and fuelled fears that a man who justice officials felt they had a strong case against would never be brought to justice.

“[Amlo’s] prosecutors are going to have to weigh up what the evidence against Cienfuegos is and whether it is strong enough to warrant a very public trial, against the loyalty of the army and how much he wants to keep the army onside,” Dalby said.

Like many observers, he was doubtful the general would ever face trial in a civilian court. He said: “Cienfuegos has a lot of friends in high places.”





No.15 article:
53m discarded Covid face masks in UK &#x27;could be polluting the sea&#x27;

Waste company says disposable face masks are ending up in landfill and water courses

The public are throwing away 53m masks each day in the UK in a waste mountain that risks creating a major environmental crisis, a waste company has said.

The huge number of face masks being put into the bin or dropped on the street is raising concerns about the amount which might be leaking into rivers and the sea, said Charlotte Green, from waste company TradeWaste.co.uk.

“If you walk around any street now you will see disposable face masks being blown around with leaves in the gutter – they are the new cigarette butt – people are chucking them after use,” she said.

“We know that 53m are being sent to landfill each day – but just how many end up elsewhere is the very scary part.”

She said masks were being found in streams, rivers, and oceans – similar to single-use plastic bottles.

TradeWaste.co.uk asked 4,500 members of the public about their use of face masks in November. Their report comes as the latest beach clean by the Marine Conservation Society said discarded masks and other items of personal protective equipment were found on nearly a third of beaches surveyed this autumn.

Disposable face masks are typically made from plastic in three layers:

Non-woven plastic fabric outer

Melt-blown polymer filter such as polypropylene

Non-woven plastic fabric inner

Other – cotton ear loops and metal nose piece

Green said disposable masks contained ear loops and metal pieces used to grip the nose which were often intact when the masks were discarded, raising fears that they could become entangled around animals and wildlife, especially when they end up in water courses.

The survey of 4,500 members of the UK public by the waste company found;

58.8m face masks are being used daily in the UK

10% are reused, 90% are discarded

53.3m face masks are sent to landfill each day 

Globally 129bn face masks are being used per month

“We as a country need better disposal methods to cope with the huge numbers of disposable masks being thrown away - most cannot be recycled. If restrictions and mask use continue then this issue is going to get progressively worse – action needs to be taken today,” said Green.





No.16 article:
Russia wrests back ownership of Orthodox churches in France

Kremlin accused of ‘aggressive’ campaign to reclaim churches built before 1917 revolution 

The Kremlin has been accused of an “aggressive” campaign to wrest back ownership of a second Russian Orthodox church in Nice.

Worshippers at Saint-Nicolas-and-Saint-Alexandra’s in the southern French city fear they will be turned out for a second time after the Russian Federation asked a French court on Wednesday to declare it the legal owner of the church.

Locals descended from émigrés who fled the 1917 Russian Revolution say they have already lost the use of the local Saint-Nicolas cathedral after a judge declared nine years ago it belonged to Russia.

Saint-Nicolas-and-Alexandra church is believed to be the first Russian Orthodox religious edifice built in western Europe.

In 2014, the Russian Federation demanded a French court expel the local Orthodox Russian Cultural Association (Acor) from the church. Acor described it as an “aggressive strategy by the Russian state aimed at taking possession, by any means, of Orthodox churches built outside Russia before the Bolshevik revolution”.

In 2010, a Nice court gave Acor ownership of the Saint-Nicolas cathedral, built in 1912, and the largest Orthodox place of worship in western Europe. This decision was overturned the following year by the appeal court, which declared that even if the Russian state had not used the building for almost a century, there was no time limit for it to claim legal ownership.

Alexis Obolensky, a retired professor whose family arrived in France from Russia in 1921, and Acor vice-president, said that after losing the cathedral the parish had moved to the Saint-Nicolas-and-Saint-Alexandra church, opened in 1859, which it now also faced losing.

As well as the building, the Russians also obtained a court order to recuperate from the Saint-Nicolas-and-Saint-Alexandra church a bloodied white linen shirt and a blue woollen uniform jacket with gold-thread embroidery said to have belonged to Tsar Alexander II. The tsar was wearing the clothing when he was assassinated in St Petersburg in 1881.

The imperial family had been visiting the city on the Côte d’Azur since the 1850s, making it a popular resort with Russian nobility. Acor and the Russian Federation are also in dispute over ownership of the city’s “Russian cemetery”.

In 2014, Moscow paid for a €20m two-year renovation of the historically listed cathedral.

Obolensky told Le Monde the descendants of Russian émigrés were struggling all over the world – including in Argentina and South Korea – to retain control of religious edifices.

Not all members of the Nice Russian Orthodox community support Acor, however. Pierre de Fermor, who founded a rival organisation called Friends of the Russian Orthodox Cathedral, believes Moscow is right to reclaim local heritage,” de Fermor told Eurasianet.

“I think it’s perfectly logical that the cathedral should return to Russia since she built it in the first place. Communism is over, Russia is back,” he maintains.

Last year, Andrei Eliseev, the archpriest of the now Moscow-run Saint Nicolas Cathedral, said the row had nothing to do with religion. He said: “To me it’s largely a dispute about property. Though much can be explained by the psychological trauma related to Russia’s history on the part of the émigrés.

“Many of these people lost their property during the revolution, that’s why they’re so adamant about the estate here. But we’re talking about fourth-generation exiles; it’s as if the trauma is genetic.”





No.17 article:
Dido Harding and Stephen Powis alerted after coming into contact with someone with the virus

The head of the government’s test-and-trace service and a senior NHS boss have become the latest senior figures in the pandemic response to announce they are self-isolating over potential coronavirus infection.

Dido Harding, who heads the NHS test-and-trace service, posted an image from the app saying she needed to self-isolate, writing: “Nothing like personal experience of your own products … got this overnight. Feeling well. Many hours of Zoom ahead.”

Later, NHS England’s medical director, Stephen Powis, told a Downing Street briefing he was self-isolating after a member of his household tested positive.

“I am on Zoom today, I can’t join you in Downing Street and that’s because a member of my household recently tested positive for Covid, and on the instructions from test and trace I am self-isolating,” he said, adding that he was “completely asymptomatic and perfectly fine”. 

It follows the announcement on Sunday that Boris Johnson had been forced to stay inside Downing Street after holding a meeting with Conservative MPs, one of whom later developed coronavirus.

Harding has been told to isolate until 26 November. While the self-isolation period is 14 days, it begins from the last close contact with the person who has contracted coronavirus, rather than from the moment of alert.

The test-and-trace app previously told Harding’s husband, the Tory MP John Penrose, to self-isolate after potentially coming into contact with someone who has coronavirus.

The service informed Johnson by email after the MP for Ashfield in Nottinghamshire, Lee Anderson, attended a meeting at Downing Street on Thursday morning, developed Covid symptoms and had a positive test.

On Wednesday, Johnson was to take prime minister’s questions via video link, which has never been done before.

A series of other Tory MPs at the meeting have also been told to self-isolate. Anderson and two others had posted photos of themselves at the event, standing about a metre from Johnson, with neither person wearing a face covering.

Penrose did not attend the Thursday meeting, and Downing Street sources suggested the cases were not connected.

Penrose, the Weston-super-Mare MP, tweeted: “It never rains but it pours … my NHS app has just gone off, telling me to self-isolate, which I’m doing. No symptoms so far *crosses fingers*.”

Asked at the time whether he had spoken to his wife about it, he told the PA news agency: “We are trying to make sure we are doing it by the book, if I can put it that way. Her NHS app has not gone off so it’s someone I have been in contact with rather than her.”

Johnson is in self-isolation until Thursday next week, but has been allowed, after consultation with health officials, to work in his No 10 office, reaching it via the garden from his flat.

The prime minister was seriously ill with coronavirus in April, but has tested negative this time.

Harding, the former head of the telecoms group TalkTalk and a Conservative peer, is also the interim head of the National Institute for Health Protection, the planned successor to Public Health England.

Her role at test and trace has come in for criticism. Data released last week revealed the system was continuing to struggle to reach much more than 60% of the close contacts of people who tested positive for coronavirus.

Government figures published on Thursday showed 60.4% of close contacts in England were reached through test and trace in the week ending 4 November.

It was the fourth week in a row the figure had been around 60%, having dropped from 77.2% during the week ending 16 September.





No.18 article:
Iran admits breach of nuclear deal discovered by UN inspectorate

Iran uses advanced uranium-enriching centrifuges in underground plant in breach of 2015 nuclear agreement

Iran has admitted a further breach of the 2015 nuclear deal by firing up advanced uranium-enriching centrifuges installed at its underground plant at Natanz.

The finding was made by the UN nuclear weapons inspectorate, the International Atomic Energy Association, and confirmed by the Iranian ambassador to the IAEA.

Donald Trump last week considered but rejected a military strike on Natanz, south of Tehran and the country’s main uranium-enrichment site. But the latest move by Iran may be regarded by his administration as a provocation that changes his, or Israel’s, calculation of risk. The development comes weeks ahead of him standing down and being replaced by Joe Biden, who is committed to re-entering the nuclear deal struck under Barack Obama.

According to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, the Islamic Republic can only accumulate enriched uranium with first-generation IR-1 machines, which are the only ones it is permitted to operate at the underground plant. But the IAEA report said that Tehran had been feeding uranium hexafluoride (UF6) gas feedstock into advanced IR-2m machines.

A previous IAEA report said that Iran had installed the IR-2m machines underground. And in its latest report, dated Tuesday, the IAEA states: “On 14 November 2020, the Agency verified that Iran began feeding UF6 into the recently installed cascade of 174 IR-2m centrifuges at the Fuel Enrichment Plant (FEP) in Natanz.”

The previous report was based on a visit to the plant on 2 November before Biden had been elected, but this latest assessment is based on Iranian actions after Biden’s victory.

Iran has been steadily breaching limits set in the nuclear agreement in what it portrays as a calculated and justified response to the US decision to quit the deal, (known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPoA), impose crippling sanctions and punish European companies that seek to trade with the country.

Iran had previously informed the agency that it would transfer three cascades of the uranium-enriching machines from an above-ground pilot plant at the Natanz nuclear site to the underground one. It did so after the above-ground centrifuge workshop exploded in an apparent act of sabotage. The explosion was attributed to a fire, but it was unclear if Israel had been involved.

So far, Iran is only using 174 of its IR-2ms, of which it has far more than 1,000. The deal allows Iran to use about 6,000 IR-1s. If Tehran keeps the number of IR-2ms in use low, and even if it at some point installs other more advanced centrifuges but also keeps their numbers low, it could credibly argue it is simply trying to restore what it had above ground prior to the sabotage on 2 July of its previous Natanz facility.

The IAEA declared last week that Tehran’s explanations were unsatisfactory for how and why certain nuclear program-related particles were found by agency inspectors at sites where they should not have been present.

In a lengthy interview published on Tuesday the Iranian foreign minister, Javad Zarif, clarified Iran’s approach to talks with a Biden administration. He said: “If the US implements its commitments under the UN security council resolution 2231, we will implement our commitments under the JCPoA. This can be done automatically and needs no negotiations. But if the US wants to rejoin the JCPoA then we will be ready to negotiate how the US can re-enter the deal.”

Zarif’s wording suggests that as soon as the US lifts its sanctions on Iran the country will come back into compliance with the JCPoA and stop breaching the uranium enrichment limits. But Zarif is resisting allowing the US back into the deal until it has assurances that as a JCPoA member the US will not use its right unilaterally to declare Iran in breach of the deal’s terms, and so require the UN as a whole to reimpose UN sanctions on Iran.

The tussle with America is being held against an increasingly grim backdrop of mounting deaths across Iran due to the spread of coronavirus. Health officials announced on Wednesday that a record 13,421 new patients had been identified in the previous 24 hours and a further 480 people had died. The official total death toll stands at 42,941. The spiral in new infections suggests the death toll will continue to mount.





No.19 article:
Among first 170 Covid cases in trial, eight had received vaccine and 162 were in placebo group

The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19 performs even better than previously thought, with 95% efficacy, equalling the early results from Moderna on Monday, according to an analysis of the final data from their trials, which paves the way for regulators to grant an emergency licence and vaccination campaigns to begin.

The news will excite scientists, public health experts and politicians. Pfizer/BioNTech say they also have the necessary safety data that regulatory bodies require, and will submit the vaccine for emergency approval within days to the US Food and Drug Administration and other regulators around the world.

The Pfizer vaccine, which uses innovative mRNA technology, was the first to publish an early analysis from its phase 3 trials involving 43,000 people worldwide. That analysis of 94 cases of Covid illness showed more than 90% efficacy and caused celebration around the world as it appeared clear that a vaccine was at least possible against the coronavirus that has wreaked havoc in people’s lives and countries’ economies.

The final results have been published just a week later, based on 170 people in the trial who fell ill with the disease. The new data is even better, with 95% efficacy – which means that the vast majority of those who developed symptoms and were confirmed as Covid cases had not been given the Pfizer experimental vaccine. Only eight had been given the vaccine, while the other 162 were in the placebo group.

In further excellent news, a good immune response was “consistent across age, gender, race and ethnicity demographics” and the jab had over 94% efficacy in those aged over 65, Pfizer said. That is remarkable, because many vaccines do not work so well in older people, whose immune systems weaken with age.

Of those taking part in the trial, 42% were from diverse ethnic backgrounds and 41% were aged between 56 and 85, which is also important as people from BAME groups have been disproportionately affected by the virus.

Ten of the cases resulted in severe illness, as opposed to mild symptoms, and only one of those had been given the experimental vaccine. No serious side-effect issues have been reported, although 2% of people said they suffered a headache and fatigue.

This week, the US company Moderna announced that its vaccine, which also uses mRNA, had 95% efficacy based on interim data. They will now be looking to publish final results and a safety analysis that will allow them to submit for regulatory approval.

Pfizer/BioNTech confirmed they would go within days to regulators around the world for emergency authorisation based on their final data and also manufacturing quality data. They have undertaken to deliver 50m doses of the vaccine this year, with up to 1.3bn next year. The UK has pre-ordered 40m doses and is likely to get a small amount this year. Europe has ordered 200m while the US has ordered 100mn.

“We are grateful that the first global trial to reach the final efficacy analysis mark indicates that a high rate of protection against Covid-19 can be achieved very fast after the first 30 µg [microgram] dose, underscoring the potential of BNT162 to provide early protection,” said Uğur Şahin, the CEO and co-founder of BioNTech.

“These achievements highlight the potential of mRNA as a new drug class. Our objective from the very beginning was to design and develop a vaccine that would generate rapid and potent protection against Covid-19 with a benign tolerability profile across all ages. We believe we have achieved this with our vaccine candidate BNT162b2 in all age groups studied so far and look forward to sharing further details with the regulatory authorities.

“I want to thank all the devoted women and men who contributed to this historically unprecedented achievement. We will continue to work with our partners and governments around the world to prepare for global distribution in 2020 and beyond.”

Prof Trudie Lang from the Nuffield Department of Medicine at Oxford University, said the data that has been released looked very positive.

“This is a remarkable and very reassuring situation that we find ourselves in. To go from identifying a new virus to having several vaccines at the point of applying for regulatory approval is an incredible milestone for science.

“Having worked on vaccine development in several diseases such as Malaria, TB and Ebola, I am really encouraged. The progress here, the faster ways of working and the new technologies developed can be taken forward into other vaccine programmes and benefit other diseases.”





No.20 article:
Pompeo expected to hand Israeli settlers goodbye gift with trip to winery

Trip would be first official visit by US secretary of state to settlement in occupied territories

Mike Pompeo is expected to tour an Israeli winery this week built on land Palestinian families say was stolen from them, a deeply provocative act that would make him the first US secretary of state to officially visit a settlement in the occupied territories.

The top diplomat’s visit has been widely reported by Israeli media but not confirmed by Washington. If it went ahead, it would be a parting gift to Israel’s nationalist government and the settler movement, as the Trump administration scrambles in its final weeks to impose a vision for the Middle East that has deeply favoured Israel’s far right.

Psagot, a settlement built on a hilltop next to the Palestinian city of al-Bireh, runs a winery that produces 600,000 bottles a year and offers VIP tours with cheese tasting.

Last year, it released a red wine named after the secretary of state as “a show of gratitude and appreciation” for Pompeo’s declaration that the US would break away from international consensus and no longer argue that settlements are illegal.

Settlers and the Israeli government have attempted to push tourism in the occupied territories to bolster their claim to the land, not only with wine tours but also by establishing “national parks” where people can go on settler-run hiking holidays.

The winery’s website says it overlooks the “primordial landscape of Israel” despite being located deep inside the Palestinian territories and only metres from Palestinian families who say they were dispossessed.

On Wednesday, the day Pompeo flew to Israel for the three-day visit, representatives from those families gathered to protest against the trip on a hill in al-Bireh opposite the settlement.

Munif Treish, a member of al-Bireh Municipality, said about 50 Palestinians from five large families had ownership of the land, which they call Jabal al-Taweel. “All of it is on private land. We have all the documents; we have all the deeds,” he said.

Tamam Quran, a 25-year-old high school teacher who has American citizenship, said her grandmother used to pick grapes from the vines now used by the winery.

“Growing up a five-minute walk from where we are here now, I woke up every morning to the settlement,” she said.

As a West Bank resident, she said she would be arrested if she attempted to cross into Israeli territory without a permit. “Yet the secretary of state can visit a settlement that is internationally illegal and has no consequences?”

Donald Trump, who has courted pro-Israel voters from the evangelical Christian right, of which Pompeo is a member, has pushed through a series of policies that previous US presidents – Republican and Democrat – have avoided because they have been seen as overtly one-sided.

He has cut hundreds of millions of dollars in humanitarian aid to the Palestinians, declared the divided city of Jerusalem to be Israel’s capital, shut down Palestinian diplomatic offices in Washington, and devised a “peace plan” that affords Israel’s government the vast majority of its demands.

Pompeo, who has been tipped to pursue a presidential bid in four years, is also expected to visit the Golan Heights, an area Israel captured from Syria and claims sovereignty over – a move Trump recognised last year.

Israel took control of the West Bank and East Jerusalem from Jordanian forces in 1967 and continues to occupy the area. Almost 700,000 Israeli settlers live there, among more than 2.5 million Palestinians.

The US state department did not respond to request for details on Pompeo’s visit. Yaakov Berg, the chief executive of Psagot winery, did not respond to a request for comment.





No.21 article:
The deputy director of Public Health England a said Sage scientific advice indicated that 'for every day that we release (measures) we will need two days of tighter restrictions'





No.22 article:
The WHO put out guidelines but different countries are setting their own vaccination priority criteria

Hope that the first effective vaccines against Covid-19 could begin being distributed late this year or early in 2021 has led countries, including the UK, to announce who will be vaccinated first.

While the World Health Organization has set out general guidelines for vaccination priority, different countries have set their own criteria.

That includes the United States, where the Centers for Disease Control’s Vaccination Program interim playbook, issued at the end of last month, identified minority ethnic groups – who have been shown to be more susceptible as a potential “critical population” – for priority consideration along with care homes, prisons and psychiatric facilities residents and workers, health workers and the over-65s and those with pre-existing conditions.

In Europe countries are at different levels of planning, with some already providing detailed guidance of who and how the first round of vaccines may be delivered, while others are promising more details in the weeks to come.

So what stage are countries at?

The government has acknowledged that it is unlikely it will have sufficient doses for everyone at first. The health minister, Jens Spahn, suggested it would take months to vaccinate the population with a target of 55-65% to reach herd immunity.

A committee from the German Ethics Council, the Leopoldina (national academy of sciences) and the permanent vaccination commission at the official public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute, has been asked to draw up guidelines for “fair and orderly access” with about 30-40% of the population in higher-risk groups by age or health. That includes 23 million Germans over 60.

Germany has said it intends to reduce pressure on intensive care beds by prioritising people with a significantly higher risk, with distribution at first at bespoke vaccination centres and then through GPs.

The next tier for priority will be those working in key public services, including healthcare and care home staff, and the emergency services.

“At the forefront are of course nurses, doctors and also people who belong to a risk group. However, that is already quite a large number in our country,” the chancellor, Angela Merkel, said recently.

Like Germany, France relies on a group of advisory committees which have been issuing draft guidelines for vaccination priority and a widespread public consultation campaign aimed at countering vaccine hesitancy in a country with a history of resistance.

France estimates that 6.8 million of its citizens are at especially high risk, including 1.8 million healthcare professionals and carers. In addition, about 23 million people could be considered vulnerable because of either age or chronic health conditions.

Although the WHO has advised considering higher-risk occupations in inoculation strategy, France has extended this category to workers outside healthcare, emergency services and care homes.

With chauffeurs and taxi drivers suffering higher death rates than healthcare workers in France’s first wave of infections, they have been prioritised for vaccination. Five million other professionals would also be included because of their contact with the general public including retail workers, school staff, plus people working in abattoirs and in construction.

The next priority groups for France would be those living in overseas territories lacking sufficient intensive care beds and workers in settings such as prisons or in the military, and emergency services.

Spain hopes to receive about 20m initial vaccine doses under a deal struck by the EU, with the first consignment expected by late this year orearly next year, enough to give 10 million people the required two shots.

While detailed criteria are expected to be released in the coming weeks, the country’s health minister, Salvador Illa, has suggested that healthcare workers and the elderly should get priority – although in terms of numbers, the two groups, at about 10 million, account for almost all of the initially available doses.

It is understood that – as in other countries – vaccinations will largely take place in local healthcare settings to avoid having vulnerable individuals go to hospitals.

Walter Ricciardi, a senior scientific adviser to Italy’s minister of health, told the newspaper La Repubblica that his country’s priority for vaccination would be health workers, elderly people and people with conditions that make them vulnerable, followed by the military and police.





No.23 article:
Putin says any move to leave Russian-backed ceasefire with Azerbaijan would be huge mistake

Vladimir Putin has said it would be “suicidal” for the Armenian government to back out of a Russian-brokered ceasefire in the war in Nagorno-Karabakh, as opposition forces in Yerevan protest against the week-old truce and call for the resignation of the prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan.

In a Russian state television interview about the deal aired on Tuesday evening, Putin was asked about a new government potentially coming to power reneging on the deal. “That would be a huge mistake,” he said.

The deal, which gave Azerbaijan significant territorial concessions after launching a bloody six-week war, was seen as a capitulation in Armenia and sparked protests against Pashinyan’s government. The country’s president has demanded snap elections and his foreign minister resigned this week in a high-level departure tied to the controversial deal.

Armenian security services last week also said they had prevented an assassination plot against Pashinyan involving an opposition politician and a war veteran.

“A country that is at war or in danger of resuming hostilities, as it has always been in past years, still cannot afford to behave in such a way, including in the sphere of organising power, as to split society from within. I think this is absolutely unacceptable, counterproductive and extremely dangerous,” Putin said.

Early on Sunday 27 September, Armenia announced it was declaring martial law, mobilising its army and ordering civilians to shelter. It claimed its neighbour Azerbaijan had launched a military operation inside a breakaway region called Nagorno-Karabakh.&nbsp;Azerbaijan&nbsp;said it attacked only in response to Armenian shelling.

Nagorno-Karabakh is recognised internationally as Azerbaijan’s territory but has a mostly Armenian population who have resisted Azerbaijani rule for more than a century. In 1991 the region of around 150,000 people declared independence and since then it has ruled itself – with Armenian support – as the unrecognised Republic of Artsakh.

Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous, landlocked region inside the borders of Azerbaijan, has been a source of dispute since before the creation of the Soviet Union. Tensions were suppressed when both Armenia and Azerbaijan were Soviet states, but they re-emerged as the cold war ended and Communist party control of the bloc dissolved.

A war between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces ended in a ceasefire in 1994, with Armenia in full control of Nagorno-Karabakh and other surrounding enclaves of Azerbaijan’s territory. Azerbaijan is majority Muslim and Armenia is majority Christian, and some elements on both sides seek to cast the conflict in religious terms.

Michael Safi

Pashinyan has said he does not plan to step down, but on Wednesday he offered a government roadmap out of the crisis to “ensure the democratic stability of Armenia”. 

The 15-point plan includes assistance to those injured in the war, provisions to return Armenian refugees to Nagorno-Karabakh, and plans to modernise the military, all steps designed to appeal to those who say the government did not do enough to protect the region and its residents from Azerbaijan.

He also called for the resumption of OSCE [the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe] talks including Russia, France and the US on the final status of the region, which Armenians call Artsakh. The ceasefire deal does not indicate what will happen to Stepanakert, the region’s largest city, and other territories in Nagorno-Karabakh after a Russian peacekeeping deployment is scheduled to end in five years.

Putin has a complicated relationship with Pashinyan, who rode to power in 2018 on a wave of popular and non-violent protest in Armenia. But the Russian leader played down their differences as he tries to hold together a truce that involves an entrenched conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the growing regional ambitions of Turkey, and the historic involvement of France and the US. 

Russia muscled out other parties when it sent in nearly 2,000 peacekeepers to the region in its most significant deployment in the South Caucasus in a decade.

The ceasefire deal releases territories that were won by Armenia following a deadly conflict in the early 1990s. Tens of thousands of ethnic Armenians have left Nagorno-Karabakh and the surrounding regions as they prepare for territories to change hands. Many families have loaded lorries with their possessions and some have set their houses on fire upon leaving.





No.24 article:
Pro-China TV station in Taiwan ordered off air over disinformation

Regulator says it will not renew licence of Chung T’ien Television after repeated violations

A pro-China TV station will be taken off air after Taiwan’s media regulator found it had failed to address serious and frequent findings of bias and disinformation.

The national communications commission (NCC) announced it had unanimously decided not to renew the broadcast licence for Chung T’ien Television (CTi), which it said had a “self-discipline problem”.

The commission’s chairman, Chen Yaw-shyang, said the panel found CTi had failed to implement internal controls despite NCC requests to do so after repeated violations. He said CTi was the subject of about 30% of complaints received by the NCC from the public.

Chen also said CTi’s biggest shareholder had directly interfered in CTI’s newsdesk – a reference to the Beijing-friendly tycoon Tsai Eng-meng, who runs CTi’s parent company Want Want China Holdings. The Guardian has attempted to contact Tsai.

CTi has said it will challenge the decision and accused the Taiwanese government of shutting down the station for political purposes. “Today is the darkest day for freedom of the press and freedom of speech in the 30 years since Taiwan’s liberation,” it said.

The unprecedented NCC panel hearing was convened in October to examine the station’s request to renew its licence, due to expire on 11 December.

CTi has been accused of acting as a mouthpiece for Beijing and lobbying against the Democratic Progressive party (DPP) government, led by Tsai Ing-wen, and in favour of the opposition Kuomintang (KMT), seen to have more favourable relations with the mainland government. Beijing considers Taiwan to be a rogue province of China that must be retaken, by force if necessary.

In 2019, an NCC audit of coverage that May found CTi had devoted 70% of its airtime to the KMT mayor of Kaohsiung, Han Kuo-yu, who unsuccessfully challenged Tsai in the presidential election. In January, CTi was fined more than US$20,000 for airing false statements by a KMT politician without factchecking or interrogating the claims before broadcast.

The station is one of three Taiwanese TV stations that Wang Liqiang, a former CCP spy who defected to Australia, reportedly said had been paid by the Chinese government to broadcast unfavourable coverage of the DPP before the 2020 election. The stations deny the accusation, and on Wednesday the NCC’s Chen said there was no evidence of CTi receiving Chinese government funding.

Last month, Han said removing dissenting voices from media was “one of the hallmarks of an authoritarian country”. So-called “pan-blue” politicians, who favour greater ties with China, protested against the NCC’s hearing, saying CTi News was “one of the few media outlets in Taiwan that is still willing to give groups supporting unification with China a voice”.





No.25 article:
Finding has implications for one-size-fits-all approach to vaccine development

Antibody levels against the virus that causes Covid-19 appear to fall faster in men than in women, a study suggests – a finding that could have implications for vaccine research.

Historically, medical research has often taken a one-size-fits-all approach, lumping women and men together despite growing evidence that the sexes differ in how they catch and fight disease. Covid-19 seems to be a case in point, with women more likely to be infected but men thought to be up to twice as likely to die from the virus.

The study, which has not yet been peer-reviewed, tracked for nearly six months 308 members of staff at Strasbourg University hospitals in France who had a confirmed Covid-positive test. Most of the recruited patients had mild disease.

Different antibodies were measured using three different tests at two points over a 172-day period. At the first blood sampling, men older than 50 and those with a body mass index (BMI) of more than 25 exhibited the highest antibody levels.

At the second sampling, levels of antibodies (including neutralising proteins designed to thwart the virus from latching on to human cells) had fallen further in men than in women, regardless of age and BMI, the researchers said.

“Other studies have shown that men have a higher antibody response than women in the acute phase – but we’re showing that even though men have a higher response in the beginning, their fall in antibody levels is much quicker over time, while women seem to have more stable levels,” said Samira Fafi-Kremer, head of virology at Strasbourg University hospitals and one of the authors of the study. “I call this the new manifestation of girl power,” she joked.

Olivier Schwartz, another of the authors and the head of the Pasteur Institute’s virus and immunity unit, said the decline appeared to depend on how high antibody levels reached to begin with. “So if you have more antibodies, you will have a more rapid decline, but we don’t know exactly why,” he said.

Dr Sabra Klein, a co-director of the Johns Hopkins Center for women’s health, sex, and gender research, said vaccine developers should analyse data to compare male and female responses over time because it was likely that the male-biased decline in antibodies would occur following vaccination as well.

“If functional antibody responses decline to a greater degree in males than females following vaccination, then it may be that males need another booster vaccine to maintain immunity,” she said.

Understanding of coronavirus immunity is far from complete. Scientists have cautioned that while antibodies – generated by B-cells – are key to the human defensive arsenal, they are not the only weapons deployed by the immune system. T-cells,&nbsp;which are tasked with stimulating B-cell production as well as annihilating respiratory cells the virus has inhabited, are equally crucial.

“I am not surprised that there might be differences in the intensity of the immune response, as this is in line with other infections, but … we need more research,” said Dr Sabine Oertelt-Prigione, chair of sex and gender-sensitive medicine at Radboud University in the Netherlands. “It is likely that memory T-cells might be preserved after infection (or vaccination) and be able to support an immune response in case of a secondary infection, as is the case in many other viral infections, but we have no proof of this yet.”

This month an 100-patient study led by the UK coronavirus immunology consortium found that T-cell immunity is likely to be present within most adults six months after primary infection. A separate 185-patient study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, has shown that at eight months after infection, most people who have recovered still have enough immune cells to prevent disease.





No.26 article:
Joe Biden warns on climate emergency as powerful storm inflicts catastrophic damage

At least six people have been killed and more than 60,000 evacuated after Hurricane Iota struck Nicaragua, prompting Joe Biden to say the surge in the number of powerful storms meant fighting the climate crisis was vital.

Reports in the Nicaraguan press said at least three children were among the victims as the hurricane hammered the Central American country on Tuesday after making landfall the previous night.

La Prensa newspaper reported that two of the victims, siblings aged eight and 11, were swept away by a raging river south of the capital, Managua. Thirteen people were reported missing after a landslide near the city of Matagalpa, including a 12-year-old girl.

Images from the Caribbean town of Bilwi showed the terrifying punch of a hurricane that wrenched utility poles from the ground and tore zinc roofs from seaside homes.

“The kids were screaming with fear. It was horrible,” Fatima Thomas Pérez told La Prensa, recalling the moment a tree came crashing down in her garden. “The ground shook just like an earthquake. We thought we were all going to die.”

As the hurricane swept west towards Honduras and El Salvador, Nicaragua’s vice-president said “catastrophic” physical damage had been caused by what authorities called the most powerful storm ever to hit the country. “Thank God more lives have not been lost,” Rosario Murillo said.

Meteorologists say this year’s Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June to November, is the most active in history. There have been 30 named storms and 13 hurricanes in the six-month period, six of which had the potential to cause significant loss of life and damage.

Two of those major hurricanes, Iota and Eta, have struck in the past two weeks, with the latter killing scores of people and causing widespread destruction after making landfall on 3 November. Experts believe the climate crisis has contributed to the record-breaking number of powerful storms.

Biden tweeted on Tuesday: “I’m keeping in my prayers all of our friends and neighbours in Hurricane Iota’s path and those impacted by Hurricane Eta across Central America.

“The increasing frequency of these powerful storms is another reason that fighting climate change will be one of my top priorities.”





No.27 article:
Hurricane Iota wreaks havoc across Central America – in pictures

The storm caused swollen rivers to burst their banks, flipped roofs on to streets, and killed at least nine people across the region

Huge waves, heavy rains and strong winds are lashing Central America as strengthening Hurricane&nbsp;Iota&nbsp;churns through the region&nbsp;





No.28 article:
Millions who lost their jobs at the beginning of the pandemic are continuing to face unemployment, a number not touted by the Trump administration

Betty Patterson of Lakeland, Florida lost her job as a cashier at Dollar General in April, and has struggled to find ever work since.

While relying on unemployment benefits, she managed to find temporary work for the US Census Bureau, and then as a poll worker during the election, but like an increasing number of Americans who lost their job at the start of the pandemic, she still remains unemployed.

“I have to go sit in line in my car for at least three hours every Friday at the local church for food,” Patterson said. “If it wasn’t for the unemployment benefits I have received our family would have been living with no power or food. I fear for what’s going to happen to us if someone up in Washington DC doesn’t help us with another stimulus.”

Millions of people across the US continue to face unemployment, as the number of jobs in the US remains at more than 10m fewer than prior to the pandemic in February.

More than 25 million workers in the US are suffering from the economic downturn, including those people claiming unemployment benefits, workers designated as having left the labor force due to the pandemic, and workers still facing cuts to work hours and pay.

As a massive jobs deficit faces the US, long-term unemployment among Americans who have been out of work 27 weeks or longer is growing, with an increase of 1.2 million people in October to 3.6 million Americans.

“Long-term unemployment doesn’t count into the unemployment rate,” said Michele Evermore, a senior policy analyst with the National Employment Law Project, as the 6.9 % unemployment rate touted as a success by the Trump administration doesn’t include those considered out of the labor force or under employed. “We’ve seen in the last two months the two biggest increases in long-term unemployment in history.”

Sarah Diemert has been furloughed from her job as a bartender in Bellevue, Washington, since 14 March, and her furlough date was extended initially to July, then October, and now she isn’t set to return to work until 31 December, though another furlough extension is possible and her latest furlough notice mentioned the possibility of layoffs.

“Unfortunately, I live in one of the most expensive zip codes in the country, have no savings, and was already living paycheck to paycheck,” said Diemert. “I’m not at all able to afford rent. My rent is about $1,800, and I went from making $1,200 a week to $425 a week without the federal extended benefits. I’ve been reading the news every day hoping for a relief bill to be passed, or at least an eviction moratorium. It feels like we’re being forgotten.”

Benefits for the unemployed are set to expire at the end of the year, which will force many of the unemployed to lose all benefits unless Congress takes action to extend expanded programs into 2021.

According to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office, 5 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits by the end of the year. Most states provide a maximum of 26 weeks of unemployment benefits, and as part of the Cares Act, Congress added an additional 13 weeks of unemployment benefits through pandemic emergency unemployment compensation (PEUC), but this program, along with pandemic unemployment assistance (PUA), is set to expire at the end of the year.

Those on unemployment have already been struggling as more temporary job losses are becoming permanent. Since federal extended unemployment benefits expired on 26 July, the Labor Department cites benefits have only paid on average 39% of workers’ prior paychecks.

Carlita Redrick lost her job as a hairstylist in Andersen, Indiana, when the coronavirus shutdowns began in March, and has been unable to return to work because her son has chronic asthma. A single mother of two, Redrick is currently struggling to survive on just $54 a week in unemployment benefits. She has tried to resolve her low benefits with the state unemployment office to no avail, all while working with her two children who are attending school virtually.

“Right now we are barely getting by,” said Redrick. “The kids need winter clothes soon. I hope they pass something soon. It’s been hard.”

Michele Schumer of Pinellas Park, Florida has been unemployed from her job as a server since March. She has only received $125 per week since the expanded unemployment benefits expired. A single mother with a 13-year-old-child, Schumer is currently living in a motel and struggling to make ends meet.

“I lost my home and my car in September. I applied for work everywhere I could. I’m at such a loss,” she said. “I barely scraped some change together this morning just to buy milk and chicken for dinner.”





No.29 article:




No.30 article:




No.31 article:
&#x27;I&#x27;ll never be the same again&#x27;: facing family trauma in a Nazi concentration camp

Filmmaker Anthony Giacchino and producer Alice Doyard explain how a young history student persuaded Colette, 90, to visit the German concentration camp where her brother died

The new Guardian documentary, Colette, follows the remarkable story of a former member of the French resistance, as she travels to Germany for the first time to the Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp where her brother died 75 years ago. Persuaded to go on the journey by history student Lucie, 17, the pair support one another through an emotional journey into the past. “When I cross into Germany I’ll never be the same again,” says Colette, 90.

Giacchino: In April 2018, Alice and I were in France scouting a completely different world war two story about an American veteran whose glider had crashed in Sainte-Mère-Église during the Normandy invasion. Over lunch, our tour guide told us he knew a woman in Normandy named Colette who had been in the French resistance and he offered to make an introduction.

Doyard: The first time I spoke with Colette, I was amazed by her strong mind and her vivid memories of the war. She spoke about her lost brother Jean-Pierre with a frank, truthful, yet tender tone. I knew we should help give her voice, to tell the world what she was communicating.

Doyard: We very soon had a strong interview for a memorable portrait but we wanted to show her in action, perhaps embarking with her on a new episode of her life. In filmmaking, I believe there is nothing more important than revealing the authentic experience of your characters, and we wanted to explore the deep connection Colette felt with her lost brother.

Giacchino: Eventually we wondered if Colette would consider going to Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp. But as much as we were intrigued by this notion, we felt we couldn’t suggest it without a purpose beyond simply visiting the spot where her brother died. And hanging over all of this was the fact that Colette had vowed never to go to Germany, frankly telling us that she spent the last 70-plus years trying to forget this part of her life.

Doyard: In parallel, through research I discovered that a project to document the experience of French deportees to Dora was under way at La Coupole Museum near Saint Omer in France. That’s where we found a 17-year-old aspiring historian named Lucie Fouble. It occurred to us that Lucie’s presence on a visit would be invaluable from the point of view of Colette being able to see that this tragedy mattered to future generations. It is that which convinced her to make the journey.

Doyard: For me, having worked in very difficult situations in Congo and other zones of conflict, I am very conscious of the need to protect the emotional wellbeing of contributors. So no step was taken without careful discussion. Before each sequence we were brainstorming together about how to film it. No prejudice, no message to tell, but room for Colette to express and have the final word. The scene in the restaurant when the former mayor of Nordhausen talks to Colette about his memories of the war is a genuine expression of how we worked: when Colette wanted the camera to stop, the camera stopped.

Giacchino: It’s hard to pick! The day we filmed with the former mayor of Nordhausen certainly stands out because of Colette’s reaction to his words. Or Colette realising she didn’t have flowers to leave at Dora for Jean-Pierre. That was hard to watch as it happened. And of course the moment Colette gave Lucie the ring. It was not only a surprise for Lucie, but for the whole crew. In an instant, we all experienced the legacy embodied in that ring and I don’t think there was a dry eye among us.

Doyard: It is wise not to impose too much of the past on the present. Although authoritarianism and intolerance are on the rise we are not living in the occupied Europe of the 1940s. That said, we can learn from the example of Colette the importance of acts of resistance against tyranny and from Lucie the importance of examining history to seek its truths rather than live on its myths. In France this is particularly important because so much of the past is problematic but I believe it holds true also in a more universal sense.

Giacchino: This isn’t only a problem in France, but also in the US, where there is a large movement demanding we truthfully reckon with our own past, specifically the legacy of slavery and the devastation of indigenous populations. Like Colette realises in the film, no matter how hard you try to suppress it, you can never really escape your own – or your country’s – past.

About the filmmakers:

Anthony Giacchino is an Emmy Award winning filmmaker living in New York. His last documentary, The Giant’s Dream (Warner Bros ), tells the story behind Academy Award winning director Brad Bird’s first feature film, The Iron Giant. His first feature-length documentary, The Camden 28, aired on the PBS series POV, and was nominated for a Writers Guild of America award for outstanding achievement in writing for the screen. Giacchino is a former Fulbright Scholar at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität in Freiburg, Germany.

Alice Doyard is an award-winning producer and director, with credits that include: Earthmasters: Playing God with the Climate (Arte), World War One from Above (BBC 1), Immortality – A Scientific Investigation into Cryogenics (Arte), Inside France’s Young Far-Right (BBC News), Paris Attacks (BBC News), Big Screen Splendors – Following Bridget Jones In London (Arte).

Watch more Guardian Documentaries here

Sign up for Guardian Documentaries newsletter here to be the first to hear about new releases and exclusive events.





No.32 article:
The agreement reached on 21 November 1995 by the presidents of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia ended the war between the former Yugoslav republics, outlining an agreement for peace

By Martin Walker in Washington2 November 1995

The United States opened the Bosnian peace talks in Ohio yesterday with a firm pledge that in no circumstances would the war crimes charges against the Bosnian Serb leaders, Radovan Karadzic and General Radko Mladic, be lifted as part of any eventual deal.

“I hope that some day Dayton, Ohio, will be remembered as . . . the place where the killing was finally brought to a halt,” the secretary of state, Warren Christopher, said on arrival at the Wright-Patterson air force base near the town.

The chief US broker of the talks, the assistant secretary of state Richard Holbrooke, presented the parties with a 10-point draft peace settlement the US had agreed with its Contact Group partners, Britain, France, Germany and Russia. The draft, still highly confidential, is believed to include an exchange of the Muslim enclave of Gorazde for Serb-held territory around Sarajevo, rejecting the Bosnian Serb demand for a division of the city.

The fundamental principle of the US plan - that a sovereign Bosnian state can be composed of two almost equal Bosnian Serb and Bosnian Croatian-Muslim entities, has been agreed on by all three parties.

Serbia’s president, Slobodan Milosevic, President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and Bosnia‘s president, Alija Izetbegovic, all expressed cautious optimism as they arrived. But Mr Holbrooke, who met them separately before the talks opened, warned that the sides were still far apart.

The only real US leverage was to stress that “failure means the resumption of the war”, he said. “They talk peace, but they don’t show the slightest readiness for compromise. They are hardening their positions in expectation of very tough talks. I think we have to start by just getting back to where we were a few weeks ago.”

By Jonathan Freedland and Martin Walker in Washington and Mark Tran in New York22 November 2020

President Clinton announced the biggest foreign policy triumph - and the greatest political gamble - of his presidency yesterday, as he moved to plunge 60,000 Nato troops into the Balkans to enforce the historic but fragile Bosnia peace accord brokered, against the odds, by his administration.

As the first, small US advance and logistics teams headed for Bosnia last night, paving the way for at least 20,000 US combat troops, Mr Clinton faced more friction with his European allies, the Russians, his own Congress, and the spectre of American casualties in an election year as a result of a deal already being denounced by Bosnian Serb leaders.

After 21 days of bitter wrangling at Wright-Patterson airbase near Dayton, Ohio, aimed at ending nearly four years of war, President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, Bosnia‘s President Alija Izetbegovic and President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia initialled the hard-won text of 65 pages, 11 annexes and scores of detailed maps, in the B-52 room of the airbases’s Hope Hotel.

The US secretary of state, Warren Christopher, shook hands with Mr Milosevic, who in turn shook hands with his Bosnian and Croatian counterparts, and all three then applauded the day’s work. The European Union negotiator, Carl Bildt, and British, Russian, French and German representatives all witnessed the document.

“This ensures the continuity of a single Bosnian state with effective federal institutions with a single currency and the full respect of all its neighbours as a sovereign entity,” Mr Christopher said. “It is a victory for all of us.”

“It may not be a just peace, but it is more just than a continuation of war,” said Mr Izetbegovic. “In the situation as it is, and in the world as it is, a better peace could not have been achieved.”

The deal is fragile, with the Bosnians only joining reluctantly, after they faced isolation as Croats and Serbs said they were ready to sign.

Under the plan, Bosnia nominally remains one state with a single elected president and parliament, and a unified Sarajevo as its capital. But the territory is divided into two virtually equal sections comprising a Bosnian-Croat federation and a distinct Bosnian Serb republic.

The Bosnian government won a key demand: a ban on all indicted war criminals from political life. Rebel Serb leaders Radovan Karadzic and General Ratko Mladic both face war crimes charges at The Hague.

Bosnians also won a guaranteed right of return for all refugees - estimated at over 2 million - and freedom of movement throughout the new state. The Bosnians also gained a corridor linking Sarajevo and the Gorazde enclave.

For the Serbs, their reward came from New York where the UN security council was set last night to lift the economic sanctions imposed against Belgrade since the beginning of the war.

The breakthrough came at 10.30am yesterday after two nights when the warring sides came close to packing up and leaving. Twice Mr Milosevic and Mr Izetbegovic ordered their baggage placed aboard their personal jets, and the engines were running even as Mr Christopher urged one final effort.

By Martin Walker in Washington24 November 1995

When the European negotiators entered the B-52 room of the (Bob) Hope hotel to prepare for the ceremonial signing of the Bosnian peace talks at Dayton this week, they looked at the stage and exploded.

“Dirty Dick does it again,” snapped one, as they saw no British, French, German or Russian flag, and no seats at the top table to record the European presence at the US-imposed settlement of Europe’s first war in 50 years.

They scurried away for yet another row with Dirty Dick - the US chief negotiator Richard Holbrooke - to get the flags and the chairs put back and some scrap of Euro-honour restored. The 21 days of negotiations at Dayton may have secured a Bosnian peace agreement, but they opened a wide rift between the US and the Europeans in the Contact Group.

At one point the Russian deputy foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, stamped from a meeting to phone the deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott, in Washington.

“This cannot go on. We are walking out of this farce,” Mr Ivanov said. “We are treated like cattle here. Holbrooke is a disaster, he locks us out of rooms, he refuses to let us see the maps. Nobody will deal with this maniac.”

Mr Talbott sent the ambassador John Kornblum to smooth the ruffled feathers, a job to which Mr Kornblum had grown accustomed in the tempestuous wake of Mr Holbrooke’s diplomacy.

Mr Holbrooke is an extraordinary figure, so adept and assiduous at manipulating his own press coverage that he is widely hailed as the architect of the Bosnian peace.

But, deploying rages and tantrums and sudden manly embraces, Mr Holbrooke’s diplomacy is a contact sport, a high-risk exercise in manipulation and deliberate brinkmanship that will do whatever it takes to close a deal.

“All you need for the unification of Europe is to put us in a room with Holbrooke,” one of the European diplomats said. “He created an unbreakable cohesion between the Europeans and Russians because he tried to marginalise us all, to squeeze us out of the process, all the while reminding us that we had failed and that America was taking over.”

The leaks and complaints of the discomfited Europeans at Dayton reflect the reality that American diplomacy was finally required to resolve a European war. The American version of the Dayton talks is different, with happy anecdotes of lobster dinners.

In the American accounts the isolation of Dayton, Mr Holbrooke’s tough-cop rages and Warren Christopher’s soft-cop ways were all part of a brilliantly orchestrated realpolitik to achieve a deal. US officials told how the Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic, would trade towns as he sipped Scotch and talked about Gone With the Wind. One evening he nestled by the Officers Club piano to render a saccharine version of the romantic classic Tenderly.

Most of the American briefings have focused on the Nintendo Room, a computer -filled chamber where the detailed maps could be manipulated at the touch of a joystick, using programmes devised to simulate bombing runs. Another computer then calculated the percentage of land that each side would receive.

“Milosevic was insisting on no more than a two-mile wide corridor to link Sarajevo and Gorazde. General (Wesley) Clark took him to play Nintendo, and showed him that God had not designed the topography that way. Milosevic sipped his whisky, agreed to five miles, and now we call it the Scotch road,” a US official said.

“The American computers outsmarted themselves,” a European official said. “They took (Bosnian president) Izetbegovic into the room and showed him that the map would give him 55 per cent, cutting the Serbs down to 45 per cent. They wrote on a blackboard ‘Bosnia Wins’. But they forgot to rub that out when Milosevic came in. He blew up, refused the deal, and finally the Americans got Clinton to call (the Croatian president Franjo) Tudjman and he had to give up some land to compensate the Serbs.

“That was when Holbrooke panicked. He had been outrageous to us, but suddenly came to us all charm. Could we get President Chirac and prime minister Major and Chancellor Kohl to call Tudjman too.

“Holbrooke nearly broke the deal. Tudjman would not shake his hand. The Bosnians stopped talking to him. They knew he sneered at them as Izzy, Silly and Mo (President Izetbegovic, prime minister Haris Silazdic, and foreign minister Muhamed Sacirbey) and tried to divide them among themselves.

“He had more success dividing the Germans. When Warren Christopher arrived on Friday night thinking he had just to pluck the ripe fruit from the tree, he found he had to save the talks that Holbrooke had wrecked.”

The sharpest threat to the peace initialled this week comes from the Bosnian Serbs, who not only denounced the deal in public, but in private refused to initial either the map or the military annexes to the long and complex agreement. Only shown the final map by Mr Milosevic minutes before the peace agreement was announced, the Bosnian Serbs in the delegation were stunned to see they had lost the Sarajevo suburbs and commanding heights they had defended throughout the siege.

The map showed a large swath of land looping down from north of the city and around to the west and south-west switching from Serb to government control. Grbavica, an inner-city district where Serb frontlines swoop to within a hundred yards of the destroyed Bosnian parliament tower, will revert to government control.

The disputed northern suburbs of Vogosca and Ilidza to the west will change hands, giving the government control of the railway, airport, and key roads necessary to tie Sarajevo to the rest of Bosnia and the world.

“We now wait for the boys from Belgrade to visit Pale with the pliers and electrodes to get the Bosnian Serbs to sign on before the Paris peace ceremony,” another European diplomat said.

By Alex Duval-Smith in Paris15 December 1995

After the maps were drawn up in Dayton and the geopolitics sketched out in London, Paris provided a backdrop of red carpets and cherubed pillars for the signing of the first European peace treaty for 50 years yesterday.

Beneath a painted ceiling in the Elysee Palace representing “the Republic safeguards peace”, the presidents of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia and Serbia signed an accord aimed at halting nearly four years of the worst fighting in Europe since the second world war.

The leaders of former Yugoslavia were succeeded at a plain oak desk by two triumvirates of world leaders who signed the same four copies of the General Framework Accord for Peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina – three in Serbo-Croat and one in English.

In a morning laden with pomp and underscored by protocol rivalry, President Clinton, President Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Helmut Kohl signed next, before John Major and Viktor Chernomyrdin, the Russian prime minister, and Felipe Gonzalez, the Spanish prime minister.

The speeches, from a podium in front of 23 flags, placed in French alphabetical order, were strictly limited to six minutes each. Alija Izetbegovic, the Bosnian president, said: “My government is signing this agreement without any enthusiasm, like someone who is taking a bitter but useful potion.”

The signing of the 165-page document, initialled on November 21, after three weeks of continuous negotiations in Dayton, Ohio, starts the clock on a series of deadlines for troop movements and the release of prisoners.





No.33 article:
&#x27;Hello work&#x27; or job centre? language experts spell trouble for Japan&#x27;s mangled English

Group of language experts is taking local governments and organisations to task for their over-reliance on machine translation

Encountering mangled English is a frequent source of mirth for many residents of Japan, but for one group of language professionals, the proliferation of inappropriate words and phrases is becoming a national embarrassment.

Their recently formed group, loosely translated as the association for the consideration of Japan’s English, is taking local governments and other bodies to task for their over-reliance on machine translation on official websites and public signage.

While many English-speakers in Japan will have encountered hilarious – and often nonsensical – slogans on bags and T-shirts, the group is most concerned about the negative impact that official miscommunications could have on tourism and Japan’s growing foreign community in the case of an earthquake or a medical emergency.

Since launching their group several months ago, the seven women, mostly graduates of Columbia Business School, have identified a range of culprits.

The official website of Meguro ward in Tokyo, for example, renders kurashi – or “living” – as “dark matter”, while the Kobe municipal government, turns sumai (home) as “I’m sorry”, the machine translation having apparently misread the original word as sumanai, a casual form of apology.

Chikako Tsuruta, an experienced conference interpreter and professor at Tokyo Woman’s Christian University, said problems arise when software mistranslates the meaning of specific kanji characters.

“They produce unintentionally funny translations that could easily be corrected if they were just checked by an English speaker,” said Tsuruta, adding that Chinese- and Korean-speaking colleagues had noticed similar issues with those languages.

Her group, comprising interpreters, researchers and employees of foreign companies, had long been frustrated by the widespread use of wasei-eigo – Japanese-made English – in official literature, advertising and marketing. “We were talking about it over lunch and decided we no longer wanted to feel embarrassed about poor English usage,” she said.

The volunteers have started contacting local governments and have so far received positive responses. Local authorities in Urayasu – home to Tokyo Disneyland – have set up a working group that is expected to make recommendations to improve the city’s multilingual online services later this year.

“We’re not trying to look down on people or make fun of them,” Tsuruta told the Guardian. “But with the Olympics probably happening next year, we want official English to be decent and presentable to the rest of the world.

“And foreign people living in Japan should at the very least be given accurate, understandable information, especially if they need to evacuate after a natural disaster. It could be a matter of life or death”.

The group’s members appear to be divided, however, over the merits of using irregular, but nonetheless catchy, English titles for government business, including Hello Work (job centres), My Number (a 12-digit ID system), and, more recently, Go To Travel, a subsidised scheme to encourage domestic tourism during the coronavirus pandemic.

Even major corporations occasionally fall into the wasei-eigo trap, Tsuruta said, citing Hitachi’s long-running “Inspire the Next”, and Toyota’s Olympic-inspired “Start your Impossible”.

The association will have its work cut out should it choose to take on the misuse of English in advertising and design.

The longstanding practice of using English words and phrases to give a product, service or campaign a cosmopolitan feel has produced several classics, including Nissin’s “Boil Japan” promotion for its Cup Noodles.

Seven years ago, the mascot of Fukushima Industries, an Osaka-based manufacturer of industrial cooling systems, made international headlines after understandable associations were made with Japan’s handling of the Fukushima nuclear meltdown. The mascot’s name: Fukuppy.

Others, though, are guilty only of the same poor punctuation found on shop signage in countries where English is the first language. This month, Takashimaya department store in Kyoto was forced to cover up posters after social media users pointed out how a missing comma had sabotaged its simple, and supposedly inspirational, message.

“Rising Again,” it began. “Save the World from Kyoto JAPAN.”





No.34 article:
Poverty has long blighted Gipsyville west of Hull, which has reported 1,129.5 infections per 100,000 people in the last week

The sign on the door at the One Stop Shop on Hessle Road is clear that face masks are required, but many customers ignore it. “Half of them don’t wear masks. There’s no point getting stressed about it,” said Andrew Sanderson, one of the cashiers, on his break.

Hull is currently the UK’s Covid hotspot, with an infection rate of 776.4 per 100,000 people, nearly triple England’s average. But in Gipsyville, a suburb to the west of the city, there were the equivalent of 1,129.5 infections per 100,000 people in the last seven days.

“There’s no sense people are limiting their shopping trips,” said Jean-Luc Sinclair, another One-Stop worker. “During the first lockdown people would queue patiently outside but now people just barge in.”

Customers come in several times a day to buy non-essential items, said Sanderson: “The bookies are closed so people are buying so many scratch cards. They buy one, go outside, scratch it, come in to claim the cash and buy another.” A few doors down, on the shutters of Coral, a betting shop, someone has graffitied: “Spread lov not Covid.”

The ward of Newington and Gipsyville is one of the most deprived in England. In 2015, 18% of households were living in fuel poverty, compared with the England average of 11%, and 31% of dependent children were classed as living in child poverty, compared with the England average of 17%.

A total of 2,017 people of working age (20.9%) in Newington &amp; Gipsyville were claiming benefits in November 2016, compared with 17.6% for Hull and 10.7% across England.

On 9 November, all 420 pupils at Gipsyville’s primary school, Francis Askew, were sent home after an outbreak. It will not reopen fully until next Monday. Many parents are now scared to send their children back, said Gavin Storey, whose youngest child, Leah, attends the school.

The 54-year-old has Crohn’s disease and severe osteoporosis, leaving him vulnerable to infection and unable to work full-time since 1994. “Our Leah isn’t going back,” he said. “She’s frightened of bringing it [Covid] home and then her mam and dad die.” His older three children are also at home after Sirrius Academy West, the local high school, closed to all pupils except Year 8.

Like many in Gipsyville, Storey sniffs a government conspiracy. He definitely believes Covid is real. But he thinks it suits the ruling class to let the virus run riot through deprived communities like his, where you can buy a three-bed terrace for £52,000.

“It seems like they are trying to get rid of us,” he said. “That way when it’s over they won’t have to spend so much money around here. Let the kids go to school, spread it to their parents and then let them all die. Most of the people in the country who are on benefits will be dead.”

Over the road, Alfie Field was celebrating his fourth birthday at home, his nursery closed and no friends allowed round to celebrate. He road-tested his mini police motorbike in the street as his uncle, Carl Waller, vented his frustrations.

Waller, 34, was diagnosed with stage 4 lymphoma last year. He didn’t leave the house once from March until September and was horrified to see the crowds in Asda the first time he ventured out. He blames Boris Johnson for setting a bad example. “He’s told everyone else to social distance and yet he clearly doesn’t do it himself because he’s in isolation again,” he said.

In the butcher’s shop on Hessle Road, a small boy of around 11 had been sent in to buy sausages and bread cakes. “Have you not got a mask, mate?” asked butcher Dylan Pougher. The boy shook his head.

Afterwards, Pougher speculated why Hull has been so badly affected this time around. He and many others were initially sceptical about the second lockdown because most people hadn’t known anyone who fell ill during the first wave, he said. “Only one relative got it last time around,” he said. This time around it’s two.

Many in Gipsyville are in low-paid, insecure work. One minimum wage worker complained of being threatened with disciplinary action after taking six days off work with Covid symptoms. “There is a lot of pressure to come in even if you are not well,” he said.

M Garton &amp; Son, has been organising funerals for the residents of Gipsyville since 1888. Eric Wilson, one of the funeral directors, said Covid deaths were creeping up. “Last week, two out of 20 cases were Covid; this week it’s six out of 30. We’re only at the beginning of the second wave –&nbsp;I’d say we might be four, six weeks behind the rest of the country. But we’re prepared. We’ve got all the PPE, we’ve got the coffins. We’re ready.”

• This article was amended on 20 November 2020 because an earlier version incorrectly gave Alfie Field’s first name as ‘‘Archie’’.





No.35 article:
The 75th anniversary of the Nuremberg trials puts the fantasy of resistance to tyrannical Brussels into proper perspective

“I would rather not shake hands with a German of my age,” says Colette Marin-Catherine. “But I give all possible credit to the generations that came after.” There is steel in the elderly voice, but no anger.

When Colette was 16, her older brother, Jean-Pierre, was deported to a German concentration camp. He was put to work as a slave labourer in underground tunnels assembling V2 rocket-propelled bombs. He died weeks before the camp was liberated by US soldiers. Brother and sister had both been active in the French resistance, but Colette escaped capture. She refused to set foot in Germany for another 74 years.

Last year, Colette was persuaded by a young French historian to end the personal boycott and visit the site of her brother’s death. Their trip together is the subject of a short film, Colette, released this week. It is a portrait of an intimate grief, locked away for decades, then entrusted to younger hands for safekeeping. It is one victim’s story, redeemed from the anonymity of mass slaughter, pulled from the tide of forgetting. The witnesses will not be with us for ever. “Remember, I am 92 years old,” Colette tells me from her apartment in Normandy. “If you have something to ask, you had better take the opportunity now.”

This week is also the 75th anniversary of the start of the first Nuremberg trial of Nazi war criminals. A military tribunal in the smouldering ashes of war was not the perfect court, but the reckoning had to begin somewhere. Nuremberg was the site of annual Nazi rallies. “Nuremberg laws” were the legal blueprint for genocide. It was the right place to put the monstrosity of the Third Reich in the dock, but the task demanded a new apparatus of international justice, a new vocabulary of rights common to humanity.

The Europe we have now is just one of many that might have crawled out of the abyss in 1945. It describes a choice: cooperation and integration over nationalism and militarism. How probable was that outcome? Chaos and war were the precedents. It was not obvious to Colette as a teenager that she would live to see the frontier between France and Germany dissolved. “Now it seems normal that the era of frontiers is obsolete,” she says. “You can try to stop people, but you cannot stop money crossing. You cannot stop a virus. What is it for, this border? You tell me.”

The founding story of the EU, the boring miracle of reconciliation through trade, has never resonated in Britain for various reasons. The European project was viewed with disdain until its success provoked envy. UK accession in 1973 was sold to the public as a remedy for economic decline, even by those in favour. It sounded like Britain was capitulating to pushy continentals. That ambivalence is conveyed in a 1979 interview with Margaret Thatcher lamenting Britain’s lack of competitive edge. “I can’t bear it,” she says. “We, who either defeated or rescued half Europe, who kept half Europe free when otherwise it would be in chains! And look at us now!”

Thatcher went on to drive the creation of the single market – a huge achievement now cherished by the European commission and rejected by the current Tory prime minister. But Brexit was never about economics. The promise was independence, which could never be realised because there was no enemy imposing dependency. The relationship with Europe is vital, not coercive. But accepting parity with Germany, even in the 21st century, seems to animate some atavistic fear of losing the moral distinction between winners and losers in 1945.

The Brexit fantasy of resistance against tyranny is grotesque when set against the sacrifice made by people such as Colette, who defied fascism when it kicked down their doors. Britain basks in the luxury of not knowing how it might have responded to occupation, although the Channel Islands are a guide. The pattern of collaboration there was the same as everywhere else. Meanwhile, the Home Office monitored hundreds of Nazi sympathisers across Britain. Eager fifth columnists sought out Gestapo agents, hoping to be recruited for sabotage missions.

“Don’t forget, man is wolf to man,” Colette says. “In every country, in every civilisation and for as long as the world has been around.” The contagion of hatred that she witnessed as a child was not confined to a historical moment. “It’s like Covid. It can appear anywhere.”

Memory is the vaccine, preserved in memorials, transmitted down generations in the hope of reaching herd immunity. But if it is not taken up, and witnesses fall silent, the antibody count in the cultural bloodstream declines.

The idea of “Europe” as a peace project is already becoming a museum piece in Britain, a sepia-toned ambition in a glass cabinet, admired by the few who seek it out. David Cameron referred to it once in a speech during the referendum campaign. “Europe had a violent history. We’ve managed to avoid that, and so why put at risk the things that achieve that?” The leave campaign ridiculed the speech. Boris Johnson said Cameron was conjuring the threat of “German tanks crossing the French border”. The remain side dropped the subject.

No member state is hurrying to follow Britain’s example, but European idealists worry about the gap between political reality and the ethical foundations of the project. Liberal democracy is being hollowed out by ultra-nationalists in Hungary and Poland. Far-right parties across the continent have seeded the mainstream with their interpretation of Europe as a white Christian entity under siege by encroaching Islam. They cultivate nostalgia for a lost era of ethnic homogeneity, and demand integration from the religious minority, glossing over the story of how Europe made itself more Christian by murdering Jews. Assimilation was no sanctuary.

Liberal politicians in EU capitals are better at expressing alarm about that tendency than finding strategies to reverse it. British Eurosceptics revel in continental disunity because it supports their view that the whole enterprise is unsustainable. Since there is no economic benefit from Brexit, its dodgy prophets crave vindication in a great unravelling that they can then claim to have foreseen.

Absent from British politics is any account of what happens if the prophecy was wrong. What if memory triumphs over forgetting, and the European project is resilient? There is a Brexit story that casts the EU as a basket case – a burning building from which Britain escaped just in time – and there is a Brexit story that casts Brussels as the tyrant that hoards sovereignty. The leavers have no concept of European success – no map for Britain to advance alongside an EU that sticks to the path that it took out of the abyss 75 years ago. What if a plan for stability and prosperity through peaceful cooperation works? That is a future Brexiteers cannot imagine, because it is the past they chose to forget.

• Rafael Behr is a Guardian columnist

• The film Colette, directed by Anthony Giacchino and produced by Alice Doyard, was commissioned by Guardian Documentaries 





No.36 article:
Wednesday briefing: Trump fires election cybersecurity chief as revenge

Republicans in Michigan try to overthrow will of voters … many England school heads thinking of quitting … the problem of Amazon’s pandemic power

by  Warren Murray

Good morning, Warren Murray here with you “as the coronavirus pandemic continues” – a phrase that is beginning to grate a little …

Donald Trump has just fired the US chief of election cybersecurity for debunking claims of electoral fraud. The president announced the sacking in a series of falsehood-laden tweets that were in stark contrast to the evidence-based assurances that Chris Krebs and his Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency had given about the election results being free of fraud and interference.

Democrats condemned the sacking and were joined by at least one Republican, Ben Sasse, a senator from Nebraska, who said: “Chris Krebs did a really good job. He obviously should not be fired.” The firing by Trump of one of his own appointees comes as he refuses to recognise the victory of the president-elect, Joe Biden, and removes high-level officials seen as insufficiently loyal. Krebs had indicated he expected to be fired – last week his agency released a statement confirming that “the November 3rd election was the most secure in American history … There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.”

In an alarming moment overnight, Republicans on the Wayne County Board of Canvassers in Michigan set the state on a path to constitutional crisis after trying to overthrow the will of voters. Despite court challenges being rejected, they refused to certify the vote count in the area centred on Detroit city, where Biden clearly beat Trump by a margin of more than 2-1. The Republicans relented after angry condemnation from their Democratic counterparts and the public. In Pennsylvania the state supreme court has ruled election officials did not improperly block Trump’s campaign from observing the counting of mail-in ballots. Separately, Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani has turned in an embarrassing performance in a federal court of the same state, where in rambling submissions he tried to salvage another conspiracy-fuelled case against the election results. A verdict is awaited on whether the case will be thrown out.

Midweek catch-up

&gt; Labour has reinstated Jeremy Corbyn who was suspended after saying antisemitism in the party had been “dramatically overstated for political reasons”. The Jewish Labour Movement condemned his readmission.

&gt; Failure to reach a post-Brexit EU trade agreement would cut the UK’s economic growth by more than half next year, delaying recovery from the pandemic recession, says KPMG, which adds that it still expects a last-minute bargain to be struck.

&gt; Boris Johnson has announced plans for a green industrial revolution, bringing praise from environmental groups but questions about funding and the expansion of nuclear and hydrogen power. The PM said the plan would create up to 250,000 jobs.

&gt; Black people in England and Wales are more than five times as likely as white people to be victims of homicide, research shows. Cambridge University’s Institute of Criminology also found that Asian people faced twice as much risk as white people.

&gt; Harvey Weinstein is sick and being “closely monitored” in prison, a representative for the convicted sex offender said. The spokesman did not confirm whether the 68-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 at a New York jail.

School heads worn out – England could be faced with the resignation of almost half its headteachers after the pandemic, according to a poll by their union, the NAHT. Headteachers interviewed by the Guardian said they were stressed and exhausted because of the enormous pressures of dealing with Covid and extremely stretched school budgets. The union is calling for a “revolution” in professional development for teachers and leaders to help the catch-up on lost learning time. A separate Shelter/YouGov survey has found widespread concern among teachers about pupils arriving at school hungry, dishevelled and exhausted. More than half of teachers had worked in the past three years at an educational setting with children who were, or became, homeless and had to live in temporary housing.

Square Mile goes solar – A solar farm in Dorset is to power London’s Square Mile. The City of London Corporation expects to save £3m by buying over half of the electricity powering the historical financial district from a subsidy-free solar farm in the south-west of England made up of 95,000 new solar panels over the next 15 years. Its 49 megawatts will be fed into places like the Square Mile’s historic Guildhall buildings, the Barbican arts centre, and the Smithfield, Billingsgate and New Spitalfields markets, which are also overseen by the corporation.

Beano grows up – The 82-year-old Beano comic will this week publish its first ever version aimed at grownups with a story that revolves around Sandra and Dennis Sr Menace, parents of Dennis, and the dastardly Wilbur Brown, father of Walter the Softy. The cast list also includes Captain Tom Moore, Marcus Rashford, Greta Thunberg and, like an adult Dennis and Gnasher, Boris Johnson and Dominic Cummings.

It is a pullout section, BeanOLD, which both children and parents should enjoy, said Mike Stirling, the editorial director of Beano Studios. “We just wanted to cheer everyone up. One thing we noticed was that our readers were feeling a bit sorry for the adults in their lives.”

Boris Johnson has gotten rid of his chief adviser, Dominic Cummings, and his director of communications, Lee Cain. Katy Balls explains what it means for Brexit and the government’s handling of the Covid crisis.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/17-74331-20201117_TIF_DowningSt.mp3 

Online retail grew massively in lockdown, and Amazon reaped huge profits. But where is the company’s relentless innovation and automation heading? John Harris asks whether is it time to clip its wings.

Germany were humbled 6-0 by Spain, who join France in next year’s Nations League Finals after Manchester City’s Ferran Torres scored a hat-trick in the rout in Seville. England have dropped Jack Willis and drafted Lewis Ludlam and George Ford into a 25-man squad for Saturday’s Autumn Nations Cup game against Ireland as they ready themselves for a furious physical challenge from opponents desperate to avoid another tame Twickenham defeat. Gareth Southgate has said his England squad are being put under heavy pressure from their clubs to manage their involvement with the national team amid an imposing schedule of domestic and international football. Phil Neville has packed his England women’s squad for this month’s training camp with youth and handed the Manchester United forward Lauren James her first senior call-up. Dominic Thiem produced a stunning performance to defeat Rafael Nadal in straight sets at the ATP Finals in London.

Tennis authorities have encountered “challenges” over the arrival dates of players in Australia ahead of the new 2021 season, throwing the ATP Cup and other Australian Open lead-up events into doubt. The England and Wales Cricket Board has admitted its pool of professional match officials is lacking in diversity and a review of the system is now under way. Saul ‘Canelo’ Álvarez will take on Liverpool’s Callum Smith on 19 December, it has been announced by promoter Matchroom. Plans to allow supporters back into football matches, perhaps before the end of the year, are being considered in government. And Dr Richard Freeman, the former British Cycling and Team Sky doctor, claimed he had “never, ever taken any undue risks with a rider” and one had “never come across any harm” as a result of his care at his fitness-to-practice hearing.

The UK music industry will halve in size because of the pandemic, according to a new report by the sector’s umbrella body. UK Music says the sector’s record 11% growth in 2019 will be reversed in 2020 thanks to the shutdown of the live music scene, dealing it a “catastrophic blow”. The FTSE 100 is set to open down 0.15% this morning while the pound will buy you $1.326 and €1.117.

The Guardian print edition leads with “Revealed: fast track for PPE firms with political ties”. Almost 500 suppliers were directed to a “high-priority” channel where bids were 10 times more likely to be successful, according to the National Audit Office. It also found shortcomings in how other Covid contracts were awarded to other companies, with a PR firm being one example. The Metro demands: “Come clean over £18bn Covid deals”.

The Telegraph has “Starmer under fire as Corbyn readmitted”. “End of road for petrol and diesel cars” says the Mail, while the Times has “Petrol and diesel ban from 2030” as the government instigates a switchover to electric vehicles. “Johnson seeks Downing St reset with ‘green industrial revolution’” reports the Financial Times.

The Express has “Revealed – 3-day plan to save family Christmas” but the Sun comes up with a different number: “5 days of Christmas”. The i gets in on the story with “Families will meet again in Christmas Covid plans”. The Mirror announces “World Cup legend Hurst: I will donate my brain to science”, as Sir Geoff raises awareness after dementia linked to heading the ball killed several of his 1966 team-mates.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.37 article:
Hong Kong national security law pits judges against justice officials in activist&#x27;s trial

Justice department pushes to install national security judge in case as three pro-democracy legislators arrested over unruly scenes during debate

Hong Kong’s department of justice has asked that a national security judge take over the trial of an activist, even though he has not been charged with national security offences, in a move that underlines the erosion of the city’s independent legal system.

It came as a senior Chinese official called for “judicial reform” in Hong Kong and three pro-democracy legislators were arrested.

Activist Tam Tak-chi is facing more than a dozen charges, including for “uttering seditious phrases” and advocating for an independent Hong Kong. He has been charged with sedition under colonial-era crimes laws, but on Tuesday the department of justice told the district court’s chief judge that Tam’s case may involve national security matters and thus should be overseen by a specialist judge, RTHK reported.

It also suggested that a national security judge must be appointed to decide on their request, a suggestion the chief judge, Justin Ko, rejected.

The sweeping national security law enacted in June allows for specialist judges appointed by the chief executive to hear cases, and has blurred the avenues of appeal for such cases in Hong Kong. The department said having a normal judge preside over the case could have implications for any potential judicial review.

Ko ordered both parties to make submissions by the end of the week. The department of justice has been contacted for comment.

There is growing alarm at apparent interference in Hong Kong’s judiciary, particularly since the imposition of the law, and over claims by senior leaders that Hong Kong has no separation of powers.

On Tuesday, deputy director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming, called for Beijing to assert more control over the semi-autonomous region, telling a legal summit that the work was underway on “reforms” related to the judiciary, “oath optimisation” and “qualification screening” for civil servants, and national education.

“We need to see [Hong Kong’s mini constitution] the basic law as something that is alive so we can interpret the basic law whenever necessary,” said the senior Chinese official, who also hailed the removal of four pro-democracy legislators last week.

The group was expelled immediately after a decree by Beijing reinterpreted the basic law to allow for the disqualification of “unpatriotic” legislators. The expulsion prompted the mass resignation of the pro-democracy caucus in protest at the continuing crackdown on opposition.

On Wednesday, police again arrested three of those legislators, in relation to incidents during televised legislative debates in May and June. The former lawmakers Ted Hui, Ray Chan and Chu Hoi-dick confirmed the arrests on their Facebook pages.

Footage showed Chu and Chan rushing to the front of the chamber during a June debate and splashing a foul-smelling fluid as guards grappled with them. Police and firefighters arrived later. Footage in May showed Hui dropping a rotten plant in the middle of the meeting.

Police said that after an in-depth investigation, the three men had been charged with attempting to use harmful substances with the intent to cause harm, mental injury or irritation to others. They have been detained while the investigation continues.

Earlier this month a private prosecution by Chan against a pro-Beijing legislator Kwok Wai-Keung for alleged assault was quashed after the department of justice intervened. Footage widely shared online showed Kwok dragging Chan to the ground during a May meeting which descended into violence. The department of justice said Kwok’s actions were lawful and reasonable “under the circumstances”.

Seven pro-democracy legislators, including Chu and Chan, have already been charged over their involvement in events on the day.





No.38 article:
Unrationed tea and double meat allowance for Christmas – archive, 1918

18 November 1918: food ration books had been introduced as a government policy during the first world war 

The Food Controller has decided to remove the restrictions on the sale of tea, which in effect does away with rationing. He is also allowing a double ration of meat for the week preceding Christmas week.

The meat concession operates throughout England and Wales during the week preceding Christmas week, and affects the weekly ration of butcher’s meat (including pork, suet, loose fat, tongues, kidneys, and ox-skirt). In accordance with this decision the value of each of the four meat coupons numbered 7 in the current ration-book (being the coupons available during the period from Sunday, December 15, to Wednesday December 25) will be as follows :—

Butcher’s meat, including beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and pork

Uncooked (8d. worth)With the usual bone (6oz)Cooked without bone (5oz)

Suet, loose fat, tongues, kidneys, and ox-skirt

Uncooked (8d. worth)With the usual bone (–)Cooked without bone (6oz)

In Scotland this concession will be granted in respect of the coupon period from Sunday, December 22, to Wednesday, January 1, and the increased value will apply to the coupon numbered 8 in the current ration-book. 

Catering establishments and institutions may, during the week commencing December 15 (in England and Wales) and during the week commencing December 22 (in Scotland) purchase twice the amount of their authorised weekly requirements of butcher’s meat.

Catering establishments may serve double the amount authorised to be served on any coupon or half-coupon numbered 7 (in England and Wales) or numbered 8 (in Scotland) during the period of currency of such coupon or half-coupon. Arrangements will be made for butchers to be supplied with a sufficient quantity of meat to satisfy the increased demand.

Tea rationing scheme discontinuedBy the decision to remove the restrictions on the quantities of tea which may be obtained by retailers for the purposes of their business, retailers will be allowed to obtain for sale, on and after December 2 whatever quantity of tea is necessary to meet any reasonable increased requirements on the part of their registered customers.

Prices of oranges and lemonsThe Food Controller has fixed maximum prices for lemons and for oranges, except oranges of the mandarine varieties. The Order contains provisions regulating prices on brokers’ sales and wholesale sales, and also prices on retail sales being for lemons 1s. per lb and for oranges 10d. per lb.

This is an edited extract





No.39 article:
Israel says it launched airstrikes on Syria over explosive devices at border

Syria says three military personnel were killed in ‘Israeli aggression’ over Damascus

Israel’s military has said it launched air strikes against the Syrian army and Iran’s Quds Force in Syria on Wednesday after explosive devices were planted in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.

In a statement, the Israeli military said its planes hit storage facilities, military compounds and Syrian surface-to-air missile batteries.

The Syrian state news agency reported that three military personnel were killed and one was wounded in “Israeli aggression” over Damascus.

Referring to territory inside the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, the Israeli military said: “Earlier, Israel Defence Forces (IDF) troops exposed improvised explosive devices (IEDs) on the Israeli side of the Alpha Line which were placed by a Syrian squad led by Iranian forces.

“The IEDs’ exposure on Tuesday is further clear proof of the Iranian entrenchment in Syria,” the statement said, adding that Israel holds the Syrian government responsible for all actions perpetrated in Syria.

Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations.

Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 war and later annexed it in a move not recognised internationally.

Israel views Iran as its greatest threat and says it will not tolerate the establishment of a permanent Iranian military presence in Syria, especially near its borders. Iran is a key ally of Syrian president Bashar Assad in the country’s civil war and has sent military advisers and allied militias to aid his forces.

The Quds Force has been instrumental in directing militia that fought on behalf of Assad throughout Syria’s civil war. 

Reuters and Associated Press contributed to this report





No.40 article:
New Zealand&#x27;s birthrate drops to record low as economic insecurity increases

Without migration – now nearly non-existent due to closed borders – the country’s population will begin to shrink

New Zealand’s birth rate has plummeted to a record low for the 10th year in a row, with demographers suggesting the rising cost of housing, increasing job insecurity and a strained economic environment were contributing to a reluctance to have children.

Data collected by Statistics New Zealand found the birth rate for women of childbearing age has fallen to a record low of 1.63 per woman – far below the 2.1 needed to replace population numbers.

In the year to September 2020, 1,300 fewer babies were born than in the year before, meaning without migration – now nearly non-existent due to closed borders – the country’s population would begin to shrink.

Kim Dunstan, a senior demographer with Stats NZ, said birth rates in New Zealand had shown a downward trend for more than a decade. In 2020, the greatest drop in births was in women aged 35 and below.

The data was also thought to be influenced by Covid-19, with more New Zealand women returning home from overseas but no more babies being born.

Around one million New Zealanders are thought to live offshore, the second-highest rate in the OECD, but since March thousands have chosen to return home, where life continues relatively as normal compared with many parts of Europe and the US.

The largely highly skilled demographic of returning New Zealanders has been a boon for many industries but has added pressure to the already stretched housing market, with some buying homes sight unseen in preparation for their return.

Despite the much-talked of lockdown baby boom, experts in New Zealand say the strained economic climate was likely to cause would-be parents to delay baby plans instead.

While hundreds of social media posts have been devoted to naming the generation of children born following the pandemic – popular choices include Coronials, Quaranteens and Baby Zoomers – analysts said a baby boom nine months after the lockdown was unlikely.

“Uncertainties like this tend to see delayed fertility because people feel uncertain about the world they’re going to bring a child into,” said Paul Spoonley, a distinguished professor in demography at Massey University. “Those thinking of starting a family will probably put off that decision … I think the urge to delay will be stronger than the inclination to become pregnant, even by mistake.”

Couples who did not already live together had been separated by the lockdown, he added, and opportunities for casual sex had “evaporated”. After the shutdown eased, the country’s economic woes would also dissuade many from having children, Spoonley said.





No.41 article:
&#x27;I can&#x27;t breathe&#x27;: the Thai dissident, his disappearance and a sister&#x27;s fight for justice

Sister of Wanchalearm Satsaksit, a critic of Thailand’s government whose disappearance has spurred national protests, says ‘the truth must come out’ 

“I heard the sound ‘bang, bang, bang’. Personally, I thought there had been an accident. Then, he said: ‘I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe’.”

These are the words of Sitanan Satsaksit, who can recount in detail the alleged abduction of her brother Wanchalearm, a critic of Thailand’s military-backed government whose disappearance has helped spur pro-democracy protests across the country. It all happened while she was on the phone to him.

He told her he was stopping to buy meatballs near his flat in Cambodia on 4 June, when suddenly there was a loud noise in the background.

After a series of bangs, Sitanan heard a group of men in the background talking in a language she thought was Khmer. She assumed they had gathered to help her brother, but he kept repeating: “I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe.”

She believes the men did not initially realise that her brother, who had been using wireless earbuds, was still on an active call.

The line cut off after about 10 minutes.

CCTV footage taken at the time shows two pedestrians looking at something out of shot before edging away. Then, a black car swerves down the road.

Months later, Sitanan has vowed to fight for justice at an upcoming court case, stating that “the truth must come out”.

“Missing” posters showing his image have since become one of the symbols of Thailand’s pro-democracy rallies, where protesters have accused the establishment of trampling over their democratic rights. Demonstrators have not only targeted the government, but also have also risked jail by criticising Thailand’s powerful monarchy.

Next month, Wanchalearm’s sister, Sitanan, will appear before a judge in Cambodia – where he fled following the coup in 2014 – to provide evidence about his disappearance.

“I want to ask the officials in Thailand and Cambodia to thoroughly investigate Wanchalearm’s case and show clearly that they will provide justice. The truth must come out. And it has to be the real truth, no scapegoat, no covering up,” she says.

Sitanan believes Wanchalearm, who had continued to post political satire online from Cambodia, was abducted because of his activism. The Thai authorities have denied any involvement.

In a statement, the Thai ministry of foreign affairs said officials have been in close contact with his family to gather information, and had helped assist Sitanan to travel to Cambodia.

Wanchalearm is the latest Thai activist to go missing abroad. Over recent years, eight other dissidents living in exile have disappeared after criticising the monarchy and military. In December 2018, the bodies of two activists were found by the Mekong river, their faces disfigured and their stomachs stuffed with concrete. Others remain missing. No one has been held accountable.

Human rights groups say Wanchalearm’s case has provoked an unprecedented level of anger among the public, particularly young people. “[People feel that] if this happened to Wanchalearm because he shared his view on Facebook or social media, then anyone could be Wanchalearm,” says Piyanut Kotsan, director of Amnesty International Thailand. “People can’t stand it.”

Rights groups welcomed the news that Sitanan will give evidence in court, but there are concerns about how the case will be handled in Cambodia, which has a poor record on human rights. When the incident was first reported, the Cambodian police initially declined to investigate, and the country’s interior ministry stated that it may be “fake news”. They later agreed to probe the case, but have made little progress.

The Cambodian authorities have said the licence plate on the vehicle captured on CCTV was fake. They have also stated that their inquiries found Wanchalearm was not living in the building that witnesses and his family have identified – claims Sitanan plans to counter.

Thailand’s foreign minister, Don Pramudwinai, said in June that the country’s authorities must wait for Cambodia to finish its investigations – comments that the UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances described as alarming.

In a statement, Thailand’s MFA said the government had “an unwavering determination” to find Wanchalearm, and “bring justice to bear on those responsible for his disappearance.” It added that the government was committed to upholding the rule of law and human rights obligation.

Sitanan says she is concerned about her own safety and that, in Thailand, she has noticed undercover officers following her. The recent protests were, however, a source of strength, she added: “I think if my brother could know this, he would be very glad that what he has been fighting for, which forced him to live in exile and sacrifice everything, has succeeded.”





No.42 article:
Spokesperson for the disgraced mogul would not ‘confirm or deny’ he has tested positive for Covid-19

Harvey Weinstein is unwell and is being “closely monitored” in prison, a representative for the disgraced Hollywood mogul said.

The spokesman said they could not “confirm nor deny” the 68-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 inside Wende Correctional Facility in New York.

Weinstein, who is serving a 23-year sentence for rape, has a fever, his representative confirmed to the PA news agency.

The once all-powerful film producer is considered vulnerable to coronavirus due to his age, weight and other medical issues, including a heart condition and high blood pressure.

A spokesman for the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision said they could not comment on individual cases but anyone displaying Covid-19 symptoms is immediately isolated and tested.

Weinstein’s health was a focus during his trial. He arrived at court looking frail and using a walker, and his lawyers tried to minimise his jail term by telling a judge a lengthy one was a “a de facto life sentence”.

After his 24 February conviction, Weinstein was sent to Bellevue Hospital amid concerns about high blood pressure and heart palpitations.

Weinstein is also facing charges of sexual assault in Los Angeles and is alleged to have attacked five women in California from 2004 to 2013.

If convicted as charged on the west coast, Weinstein faces up to 140 years to life in state prison.

Prosecutors in Los Angeles are attempting to put Weinstein on trial and are seeking temporary custody of the convicted rapist from New York.

An extradition hearing is set for December in Buffalo. In September, Weinstein was stripped of his CBE.





No.43 article:
New Zealand marine heatwave looms following warmest winter on record

Temperatures nearly two degrees above average have been recorded, months before the hottest part of the season

Climate scientists are warning New Zealand is on the brink of a marine heatwave after recording temperatures nearly two degrees above average in coastal waters off the North Island.

Forecasters at the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (NIWA) said a marine heatwave is building, with above-average temperatures reported throughout October, following a record warm winter.

A marine heatwave is defined as an extended period of extremely warm ocean temperatures, above the 90th percentile, that can extend up to thousands of kilometres.

The warmest seas are north of the North Island, where ocean temperatures are 1.6 degrees Celsius above the November monthly average. Sea temperatures off the coast of Northland are between 18 and 21ᵒC.

NIWA meteorologist Ben Noll said temperatures in other parts of the country were between 0.7 and 1.1 degrees above average.

“Nine times out of 10, Northland’s sea temperatures are cooler than what they are right now for the time of year. This makes what we are seeing now quite unusual,” Noll said. “We’re not even at the peak of our sea surface temperatures which typically occur over January and February.”

The news comes after climate experts in New Zealand gave their predications for the coming summer, which they said would be long, hot and dry, with an increased risk of bushfires and drought.

“High pressure systems in October brought more sunshine, warmer temperatures and less wind than normal. This pattern led to warming of the sea surface and prevented cooler water underneath from mixing to the top,” said Noll.

New Zealand is in the midst of a La Niña year, which is often linked to warmer sea temperatures on both sides of the Tasman.

In 2018, New Zealand experienced its hottest summer on record, largely propelled by a marine heatwave that saw sea temperatures rise by as much as six degrees in some areas. The average ocean temperature during January that year was 20.3C – more than three degrees above normal.

The warm seas led to a significant influx of fish and marine life usually found only in tropical climates, including the Queensland groper, whose usual home is the Great Barrier Reef.

Other marine life not usually present in New Zealand waters that have been increasingly noted by marine observers include kingfish in Dunedin Harbour, garden eels in the Kermadec Islands (1,000km north of New Zealand), sergeant major damselfish, striated frog fish and Lord Howe Moray in Northland and lion’s mane jellyfish in Wellington Harbour.

The 2018 marine heatwave also led to a boom in land-based animals, including an explosion in the rodent population.

Warmer seas provide extra energy for passing storms, Niwa said, in addition to fuelling warmer temperatures on land.

A marine heatwave this summer would mark the third in four years in New Zealand.

Warmer than average summer temperatures have been predicted for the next three months, following on from New Zealand’s hottest winter on record, which was 1.14 degrees above average.

Seven of the 10 warmest winters on record in New Zealand have now occurred since 2000. “It just showcases the trajectory that we are on,” Noll said.





No.44 article:
Philippine tradition of &#x27;long Christmas&#x27; survives Covid and typhoons

Festive season usually last four months but this year as well as the pandemic there have been three strong storms

The strains of Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer echo around a popular shopping mall in Quezon City, Manila. A band of mechanical snowmen, dressed in Santa hats, sway back and forth to the music, as shoppers – socially distanced – browse stacks of baubles and Christmas lights.

In the Philippines, a majority Catholic country, festive preparations are well and truly under way already. The country has one of the longest Christmas periods in the world, with celebrations beginning at the start of September and, for some, lasting as late as Valentine’s Day.

This year festivities will inevitably be different. On top of a ban on gatherings, and restrictions on church attendance, the economic impact of the coronavirus has left millions without work. The country has also faced three strong typhoons over recent weeks, including Vamco, which has killed at least 67 people as well as causing devastating flooding.

Some are torn over whether to put up their decor or “tone down” celebrations given the difficulties facing the country, according to Ambeth Ocampo, a historian and author.

For others the challenges of 2020 make it especially important to celebrate Christmas, even if the usual shopping sprees and parties are not possible. “We are still thankful because our family is complete. As long as we are together we’re OK,” said Nancy Endeno. “Our Christmas tree is up. I’m here to buy additional decorations,” she said, as she haggled with other shoppers at the side street stores selling parols – a traditional, and pricey, Philippine Christmas lantern.

Sato Laxa, who runs a shop on Granada street in Manila, sold 10 lanterns on Saturday afternoon. Sales are not as good as previous years but he is happy to be selling at all.

“We started getting buyers in September although we weren’t selling much. Sales have been very good lately,” Laxa said. Shoppers can pay anything from P3,000 (about £47/US$60) to P9,000 for the multi-coloured lanterns.

It is not clear why Christmas celebrations start so early in the Philippines, and it hasn’t always been this way, according to Ocampo. “Traditionally, Christmas started with the nine-day Misa de Gallo – literally Rooster Mass,” he said, referring to nine dawn masses leading to Christmas. “There is no cultural or religious reason for the long Christmas,” he said, but it may be a commercial ploy to encourage people to begin their shopping early.

Others say the extended festivities are unsurprising given Filipinos’ love of celebrations – there are 19 public holidays this year and a fiesta for each of its 146 cities and 1,488 municipalities.

The Christmas season traditionally ends on 6 January with the feast of Three Kings, “but some people extend beyond that to Chinese New year or even Valentine’s to keep the decor up and keep a festive mood”, said Ocampo.

Laxa is optimistic that people will still find a way to celebrate over the coming months. “Problems do not stop Filipinos from celebrating Christmas,” he said. “Be it a pandemic or typhoons, we manage to recover.”





No.45 article:
New Zealand tourism looks past backpackers in favour of &#x27;high-net-worth individuals&#x27;

New tourism minister says tourists who cannot afford a self-contained campervan don’t dispose of excrement ‘in a way that meets our brand’

New Zealand’s new tourism minister has spelled out his goal to target the global 1% as visitors in the post-pandemic market, rather than vans of backpackers who “pull over to the side of the road and shit in our waterways”.

Stuart Nash, who was handed the tourism job in Jacinda Ardern’s post-election reshuffle, told Radio NZ he would ban leasing of vans to tourists other than those that are self-contained.

“If you’re willing to pay for a campervan at least you have the ability to dispose of your excrement in a way that meets our sustainability goals, and quite frankly our brand,” Nash said.

In an address to the Tourism Industry Aotearoa Conference in Wellington, the Napier MP said the Covid-enforced downturn would allow for a pivot of the government’s marketing efforts towards “high-net-worth individuals”.

“We haven’t got tourists here at the moment. So we have an opportunity to redefine our global value proposition and market to those who add significant value to our country,” he said.

“I’m not saying we close the borders to those who don’t have a million dollars in their bank account ... they will come, and we’re not saying ‘don’t come’.

“What I’m saying is, all our marketing effort will go into high-net worth individuals who are looking for a piece of paradise at the moment as they sit in lockdown in New York or London or Berlin or Paris.

“They’re looking across and seeing us have 30,000 people without masks at a rugby game and saying ‘I want a piece of that’.”

The ideal tourist was named up as someone who flies “business class or premium economy, hires a helicopter around Franz Josef [Glacier on the South Island’s west coast] and eats at a top-end restaurant”.

“My ambition is that once lockdown is over and there’s a free flow of travellers across the world that we are in the top three destinations globally ... not in terms of numbers but aspiration.”

Nash also foreshadowed extra costs being met by visitors.

“It is essential that the full cost of tourism is priced into the visitor experience,” he said.

“To the question of ‘who pays’, the answer is not ‘ratepayers and taxpayers in small New Zealand communities’.”

The 53-year-old, who was a tough-talking police minister during Ardern’s first term, backed the long-running “100 Per Cent Pure New Zealand” campaign, which highlights the country’s natural beauty, as “absolutely brilliant”.





No.46 article:
UK, Italy and Spain record highest daily death totals since spring - as it happened

Republican senator Chuck Grassley, 87, of Iowa has tested positive for Covid-19, he announced on social media.

Follow our U.S blog for live updates.

Brazil would buy the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine after it is proven safe in clinical trials and registered with the domestic health regulator, its health ministry said on Tuesday. 

The statement followed a meeting between health officials and the pharmaceutical company, which said last week the vaccine was more than 90% effective. 

Covid patients could be left to suffer in hospitals and block NHS beds amid delays in setting up “hot” care homes dedicated to receiving them, health bosses have said.

Read the full story by Robert Booth, our Social affairs correspondent, here:

Police forces in England and Wales can return to handing out 10,000 “super fines” to those who break lockdown rules on gatherings - less than a week after they were told to stop using them, PA media reports.

The levies were suspended last Friday when police chiefs flagged the potential disparity in punishment between those who accept the fixed penalty notice (FPN) and those who challenged them in court.

The National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) pointed out to the Home Office that when FPN’s go before magistrates they are means-tested, meaning the recipient’s ability to pay is taken into account.

It means those who fight the case can potentially pay significantly less than those who accept the FPN and agree to hand over the full amount within 28 days.

The NPCC said on Tuesday it was “working urgently” with the government to solve the issue. 

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Brazil recorded 35,294 additional confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the past 24 hours and 685 deaths from Covid-19, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday.

The country has registered more than 5.9 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 166,699, according to ministry data.

The 2021 Welsh Parliament election may be delayed by six months if necessary due to the coronavirus pandemic, the First Minister has announced.

Mark Drakeford said providing the Senedd’s presiding officer with the power to move back the poll from May 6 represented “a major constitutional step”, but only to be used as a “last resort”.

On Tuesday, he said:

“We are focused on enabling the election to happen as planned, but it would be irresponsible of us not to make plans in case the pandemic is so serious in May next year where it wouldn’t be safe to hold an election.

Drakeford, who is leader of the Welsh Labour party, added that legislation would be brought forward to the Senedd in January “if the situation after Christmas suggests that we will need to do this as a final resort”. 

In the UK, 598 more people have died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid 19, bringing the UK total to 52,745. It is the highest daily increase since 12 May.

There were 20,051 people in the UK that tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.

It brings the total number of cases in the UK to 1,410,732. 

See the official release here.

Dozens of schools in Hull have seen classes closed due to the pandemic, with the city’s infection rate remaining the highest in England.

Julia Weldon, the Director of public health, revealed that 57 of Hull’s 97 schools have had to send some children home.

One primary school had been completely shut to all pupils “for a very short period of time”, she said.

The city’s infection rate of 776.4 per 100,000 people is more than treble the national average of 221. 

Canada has signed several agreements for potential Covid-19 vaccines, hoping they will be available to a large segment of the population by the end of next year, one of the country’s leading doctors said on Tuesday.

It is the first timeline laid out for distribution of a vaccine that Ottawa has provided since Pfizer Inc last week.

On Monday, Moderna reported that their inoculation candidates had been extremely effective in preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus.

Canada has signed agreements for millions of doses of each of these potential vaccines, which prime minister Justin Trudeau has signalled could arrive for distribution to the most vulnerable in the first quarter of 2021.

Howard Njoo, the Deputy Chief Medical Officer, told reporters:

If all goes well... we’ll have a suite of vaccines available, and if we get delivery of those vaccines, I certainly can anticipate that as the year goes on... (Canadians) will be able to be vaccinated and have a large part of the population covered by the end of the year. 

British Airways is to launch a voluntary coronavirus test for passengers travelling to the UK from three American airports.

The airline said it will trial a testing regime, in partnership with American Airlines, which will involve hundreds of travellers on particular routes from the US to Heathrow.

The passengers will be tested 72 hours before departure, and then on arrival at the west London airport, and three days later.

British Airways, which will share the results of the project with the UK and US governments, is hoping to persuade ministers that testing travellers will make quarantining unnecessary.

Passengers who take part in the pilot will still be required to follow existing quarantine rules, even if they receive negative results for all three tests.

The pilot begins on November 25 for flights from New York, Los Angeles and Dallas. 

Hello, my name is Yohannes Lowe. I’ll be taking over the live blog now. As always, feel free to get in touch on Twitter if you have any news tips or coverage suggestions. 

Brazil’s Butantan Institute biomedical centre will receive this week the first doses of China’s Sinovac vaccine against Covid-19, its director, Dimas Covas, said on Tuesday, speaking remotely in a congressional hearing.

Covas said the preliminary results of the trials Butantan is conducting in Brazil indicate the vaccine, called CoronaVac, has an excellent safety profile. He said Butantan expects to have 46 million doses ready for use in January.

• A Brazilian politician has died of Covid-19 just hours after being elected the mayor of his town. Edilson Filgueira won the race to become the next mayor of Itaguaru, a small town in the midwestern state of Goiás, during Brazil’s municipal elections on Sunday. But less than 24 hours later the 60-year-old politician was dead.

• Spain recorded 435 new Covid deaths on Tuesday, the highest daily toll seen so far in the country’s second wave of the coronavirus. Its total number of cases has now passed the 1.5 million mark and stands at 1,510,023. 

• German officials have cited security concerns in their decision to ban a series of protests planned Wednesday outside the federal parliament by people opposed to coronavirus lockdown measures. The unusual move comes amid fears that extremist groups could try to use a rally initially planned for Wednesday to attack the Bundestag, echoing an unsuccessful attempt to storm the parliament building during a similar demonstration in August.

• Italy has registered 32,191 new coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours, the health ministry said on Tuesday, up from 27,354 the day before. The ministry also reported 731 Covid 19-related deaths, up from 504 the previous day and the highest daily toll since 3 April, when the country was in full national lockdown.

• Top US virus scientist Anthony Fauci hails a Moderna vaccine found to be nearly 95% effective in a trial as “stunningly impressive”, saying it validates experimental mRNA technology that some had doubted.

• Iran’s daily new coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours hit 13,352 on Tuesday, a new record, the government announced. The number of deaths in the previous 24 hours reached 482. The total death toll has now reached 42,461, the highest in the middle east.

Hello everyone, I am moving into my final 30 minutes on the blog before handing over to our night reporter. Please do send any last-minute comments or news tips to me. Thanks

Twitter: @sloumarshInstagram: sarah_marsh_journalistEmail: sarah.marsh@theguardian.com

Plans for vaccination programmes began taking shape in Europe and the United States following recent breakthroughs, but surging coronavirus caseloads prompted gruelling new restrictions, with Austria taking the unpopular step Tuesday of closing schools and shops.

Global hopes of beating the pandemic were high after US biotech firm Moderna said its vaccine candidate was nearly 95% effective in a trial, a week after similar results announced by pharma giant Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech.

Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci hailed the results, telling AFP that the data exceeded expectations. “The idea that we have a 94.5% effective vaccine is stunningly impressive,” he said.

Moderna, whose clinical trial involved more than 30,000 participants, expects to have approximately 20 million doses ready to ship in the United States by year-end - with elderly and other at-risk people to be first in line for jabs.

France’s economic output will contract by 2.5-6% in the last quarter of 2020 depending on the length of the current partial lockdown, national statistics service Insee said Tuesday.

It now forecasts that the French economy will contract by 9-10% overall this year.

The government reimposed a lockdown at the end of October as the number of coronavirus infections and hospitalisations surged higher.

The conditions are not as strict as those imposed in March, however, and Insee expects the impact on the economy to be considerably weaker.







