No.1 article:
The Long Darkness Before Dawn

Each week, good news about vaccines or antibody treatments surfaces, offering hope that an end to the pandemic is at hand.

And yet this holiday season presents a grim reckoning. The United States has reached an appalling milestone: more than one million new coronavirus cases every week. Hospitals in some states are full to bursting. The number of deaths is rising and seems on track to easily surpass the 2,200-a-day average in the spring, when the pandemic was concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.

Our failure to protect ourselves has caught up to us.

The nation now must endure a critical period of transition, one that threatens to last far too long, as we set aside justifiable optimism about next spring and confront the dark winter ahead. Some epidemiologists predict that the death toll by March could be close to twice the 250,000 figure that the nation surpassed only last week.

“The next three months are going to be just horrible,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of Brown University’s School of Public Health and one of two dozen experts interviewed by The New York Times about the near future.

This juncture, perhaps more than any to date, exposes the deep political divisions that have allowed the pandemic to take root and bloom, and that will determine the depth of the winter ahead. Even as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged Americans to avoid holiday travel and many health officials asked families to cancel big gatherings, more than six million Americans took flights during Thanksgiving week, which is about 40 percent of last year’s air traffic. And President Trump, the one person most capable of altering the trajectory between now and spring, seems unwilling to help his successor do what must be done to save the lives of tens of thousands of Americans.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has assembled excellent advisers and a sensible plan for tackling the pandemic, public health experts said. But Mitchell Warren, the executive director of AVAC, an AIDS advocacy group that focuses on several diseases, said Mr. Biden’s hands appeared tied until Inauguration Day on Jan. 20: “There’s not a ton of power in being president-elect.”

By late December, the first doses of vaccine may be available to Americans, federal officials have said. Priorities are still being set, but vaccinations are expected to go first to health care workers, nursing home residents and others at highest risk. How long it will take to reach younger Americans depends on many factors, including how many vaccines are approved and how fast they can be made.

In mid-October, I surprised some New York Times readers by shifting from pessimism to optimism, with the epidemic in the United States most likely ending sooner than I expected. Now that at least two vaccines with efficacy greater than 90 percent have emerged, I am even more hopeful about what 2021 holds.

But even as the medical response to the virus is improving, the politics of public health remain a deeply vexing challenge.

The regions of the country now among those hit hardest by the virus — Midwestern and Mountain States and rural counties, including in the Dakotas, Iowa, Nebraska and Wyoming — are the ones that voted heavily for Mr. Trump in the recent election. The president could help save his millions of supporters by urging them to wear masks, avoid crowds and skip holiday gatherings this year. But that seemed unlikely to occur, many health experts said.

“That is outside of his DNA,” said Dr. William Schaffner, a preventive medicine specialist at Vanderbilt University medical school. “It would mean admitting he was wrong and Tony Fauci was right.”

In a bitter paradox, some experts noted, Mr. Trump could have been the hero of this pandemic. Operation Warp Speed, which his administration announced in May, appears on track to deliver vaccines and therapies in record-breaking time. The United States may well become the first country to bring the virus to heel through pharmaceutical prowess.

Had Mr. Trump heeded his medical advisers in late spring and adopted measures to curb new infections, the nation could now be on track to exit the epidemic next year with far fewer deaths per capita than many other nations.

But during his campaign, Mr. Trump spent little time explaining the importance of Operation Warp Speed; it has invested more than $12 billion in six vaccines based on three complex new technologies, as well as antibody therapies with nearly unpronounceable names like bamlanivimab.

Some health experts expressed concern that Mr. Trump might continue to undermine the coronavirus effort after he leaves office, by contradicting and diminishing any measure proposed by Mr. Biden.

“The thinking over here,” said Dr. David L. Heymann, a former C.D.C. official who now oversees the Center on Global Health Security at Chatham House in London, “is that he will continue to harass the White House to mobilize his people for 2024 for himself or his daughter or sons.”

The antidote to hopelessness is agency, and Americans can protect themselves even without Mr. Trump’s advice by wearing masks and keeping their distance from others.

Reluctant officials are finally coming around to ordering such measures. The governors of Iowa and New Hampshire issued mask mandates for the first time in mid-November; the governors of Kansas, North Carolina and Hawaii strengthened theirs. But average Americans are sharply divided over masks.

“There is pretty broad support for mask mandates even among Republicans,” said Martha Louise Lincoln, a medical historian at San Francisco State University. “But among extreme right-wing voters there’s still a perception that they’re a sign of weakness or a symbol of being duped.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued new guidelines on Nov. 10, advocating more clearly than before that everyone, infected or healthy, should wear a mask.

Various studies, involving machines puffing fine mists, have shown that high-quality masks can significantly reduce the spread of pathogens between people in conversation.

And the common-sense evidence that masks work has become overwhelming. Dozens of “superspreader events” have taken place in venues where most people were not masked — in bars and restaurants, at summer camps, at funerals, on airplanes, in churches, at choir practice.

In contrast, none have been known to occur in venues where most people wore masks, such as grocery stores. One well-known C.D.C. study showed that, even in a Springfield, Mo., hair salon where two stylists were infected, not one of the 139 customers whose hair they cut over the course of 10 days caught the disease. A city health order had required that both the stylists and the customers be masked.

Even in the most dangerous environments — hospital emergency rooms — there have been no reported superspreader events since personal protective gear became widely available. (Many individual doctors and nurses have been infected, however; an incident in South Bend, Ind., in which multiple nurses were infected turned out to be related to a wedding.)

By contrast, the White House, where masks have been shunned, has been the scene of at least one, and possibly more superspreader events.

A study by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington estimated that 130,000 lives could be saved by February if mask use became universal in the United States immediately. Masks can also preserve the economy: A study by Goldman Sachs estimated that universal use would save $1 trillion that may be lost to business shutdowns and medical bills.

Mr. Biden has said that he intends to tackle the pandemic from his first full day in office, on Jan. 21. But because coronavirus deaths follow new cases by some weeks, any results of his actions may not be apparent before early spring.

The experts generally praised the panel of advisers chosen by Mr. Biden, depicting them as reputable scientists who could credibly reach out to many groups hard-hit by the pandemic, including Black and Hispanic Americans.

But several experts, some of whom spoke anonymously to avoid offending friends and colleagues, said the panel needed different skills and a different kind of balance.

Some felt that it should have more scientific expertise, and suggested recruiting more vaccinologists, such as Dr. Paul A. Offit of Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, and more epidemiologists, such as Harvard’s Marc Lipsitch and Natalie E. Dean of the University of Florida.

Others said the panel needed more behavioral scientists adept at fighting rumors, which have been a major obstacle.

“We’re facing extremely complex and poorly understood dynamics around disinformation, conspiratorial theories, paranoia and mistrust,” Dr. Lincoln noted.

Among the suggested names with those skills were Heidi J. Larson of the Vaccine Confidence Project in London, Carl T. Bergstrom of the University of Washington and Zeynep Tufekci of the University of North Carolina.

Others said the panel had too many members tied to the Obama-Biden administration. Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel, for example, was an architect of the Affordable Care Act and Dr. Eric Goosby was Mr. Obama’s global AIDS coordinator. To reach Mr. Trump’s base, they said, the panel needs credible Republican experts.

“Otherwise,” said Dr. Leana Wen, a former Baltimore health commissioner, “there will be even more of a mistaken perception that this is Democrats and doctors trying to shut down the economy, when actually controlling the virus is key to economic recovery.”

Experts suggested adding Dr. Bill Frist, a transplant surgeon and former Republican senator, or Dr. Marc K. Siegel, an internist and Fox News opinion writer.

Mr. Warren suggested consulting marketing experts and recruiting “everyone from Santa Claus to LeBron James” as trusted spokesmen.

Another expert suggested adding Dr. Mehmet C. Oz, a heart surgeon and television personality who was criticized for promoting hydroxychloroquine on Fox News (he later relented), and possibly even asking Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson to join, because they are popular with Mr. Trump’s base and might be persuaded to accept science that would save the lives of their own viewers.

Mr. Biden’s plan for tackling the pandemic is outlined on his website.

It calls for far more widespread testing, delivered free; a ban on out-of-pocket costs for medical care for the virus; having the military build temporary hospitals if necessary; cooperation with American businesses to create more personal protective gear and ventilators; more food relief for the poor, and other measures.

Mr. Biden has said he supports a national mask mandate, although his plan calls on governors to impose state ones.

All the experts interviewed by The Times praised the plan, but several felt it was not aggressive enough. The pandemic is raging so far beyond control, they argued, that it can be contained only with deeply unpopular but necessary measures, such as rigorously enforced mask laws, closing bars and restaurants, requiring regular testing in schools and workplaces, isolating the infected away from their families, prohibiting travel from high-prevalence areas to low ones, and imposing quarantines that are enforced rather than merely requested.

Many other countries have imposed such measures despite fierce opposition from some citizens, they said, and they have helped.

“Colleges are the Wuhans of this fall surge,” said Dr. Howard Markel, a medical historian at the University of Michigan’s medical school. Universities, he and other experts said, must stop students from going back and forth between their hometowns and college towns, both of which have many vulnerable residents.

The key to enforcing mask laws, noted Dr. Robert Klitzman, a psychiatrist and bioethicist at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, is to punish not people but the owners of buildings that ignore restrictions; Quebec, he noted, fines stores $4,500 if customers are unmasked.

But after a very divisive election, other experts said, it will be hard to get many Americans to cooperate, especially if Mr. Trump encourages resistance.

Also, there are legal limits on what the federal government can do. American “sanitary codes” and quarantine laws are overwhelmingly based on state and local powers, many of which were granted in the 19th century, when epidemics constantly swept the nation’s cities. The federal government’s powers generally extend to interstate matters.

So, for instance, while the Biden administration could easily make it a federal crime to refuse to wear a mask on a cross-country flight — or put offenders on the “no fly list” that was created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center — it probably cannot make every resident of South Dakota wear a mask if Gov. Kristi Noem and the State Legislature oppose the measure. Ms. Noem has said that she will not enforce mask mandates or lockdowns even if Mr. Biden, as president, orders them.

The health experts interviewed by The Times all expressed excitement that the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines were reported to be 95 percent effective with no serious safety problems. On Nov. 23, a third vaccine, from AstraZeneca, also appeared to be effective, although exactly how effective is disputed.

“This is an amazing feat of science we’ve just seen, to go from a gene sequence on Jan. 10 to a vaccine by Nov. 10,” said Dr. Lawrence Corey, who is harmonizing disparate vaccine trials so their results can be easily compared.

However, experts still want to read the data, not just what Dr. Offit called “science by news release.”

(Pharmaceutical companies often wait until they have publishable data before announcing clinical trial results. But when news is likely to jolt a stock’s price, it is released immediately to reduce the chance of anyone connected to the company engaging in insider trading, or even appearing to.)

Mr. Biden will inherit the fruits of Operation Warp Speed and oversee their distribution. Members of his transition team, speaking anonymously because they were not authorized to reveal its deliberations, said they were already discussing two sensitive topics: whether to create a secure way for vaccinated individuals to prove they have received both shots, and whether Covid vaccines should ultimately be made mandatory — either by the federal government, or by state governments, employers, school systems or the like.

Making vaccines mandatory may be a political struggle, but it is within the scope of American law. In 1905, in a landmark case, Jacobson v. Massachusetts, the Supreme Court upheld the right of a state government to make smallpox vaccination mandatory, on the grounds that it protected the public health — despite the fact that the crude smallpox vaccines of that era could cause severe side effects in some people.

It is also within American religious tradition. Virtually every major religion has held that vaccines are permitted, and some even hold that their members are obliged to be vaccinated for the common good.

Some experts not on the committee were adamant that, once Covid vaccines are proven to be both effective and safe, they should be made obligatory.

Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, director of the Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, noted that his institution already has mandatory testing for all students and staff. He said that companies he advises would like to eventually make vaccination mandatory for all employees, but would prefer the government took the lead by requiring them.

At Dr. Offit’s pediatric hospital, every member must have had all routine vaccines and get an annual flu shot — or face dismissal.

“It’s not optional,” he said. “You’re taking care of children. And yes, down the line, I think vaccination will have to be mandatory. It’s your responsibility as a citizen.”

The next dozen weeks will be long and painful. But spring is likely to bring highly effective vaccines and a renewed commitment to medical leadership, something that has been missing under Mr. Trump.

“The C.D.C. will have to be rebuilt, and its guidelines and the F.D.A.’s have to be promptly re-evaluated,” said Dr. Robert L. Murphy, director of the Institute for Global Health at Northwestern University’s medical school. “The Biden team will move quickly. It’s not like they don’t know what to do.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.2 article:
Why School Districts Are Bringing Back Younger Children First

New York City became the highest-profile example when Mayor de Blasio said elementary schools would reopen starting Dec. 7.

After a summer of uncertainty and fear about how schools across the globe would operate in a pandemic, a consensus has emerged in more and more districts: In-person teaching with young children is safer than with older ones and particularly crucial for their development.

On Sunday, New York City, home to the country’s largest school system, became the most high-profile example of that trend, when Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that only pre-Ks, elementary schools and some schools for children with complex disabilities would reopen next week after all city classrooms were briefly shut in November. There is currently no plan to bring middle and high school students back into city school buildings.

It was an abrupt about-face for the mayor, who had for months promised to welcome all the city’s 1.1 million children — from 3-year-olds to high school seniors — back into classrooms this fall.

But the decision put New York in line with other cities in America and across the world that have reopened classrooms first, and often exclusively, for young children, and in some cases kept them open even as those cities have confronted second waves of the virus.

In-person learning is essential for young children, who often need intensive parental supervision just to log on for the day, education experts say. And mounting evidence has shown that elementary schools are unlikely to fuel transmission as long as districts adopt strict safety measures. The evidence is more mixed for middle and high schools.

“With younger kids, we see this pleasant confluence of two facts: Science tells us that younger children are less likely to contract, and seemingly less likely to transmit, the virus,” said Elliot Haspel, the author of “Crawling Behind: America’s Child Care Crisis and How to Fix It.”

He added: “And younger children are the ones that most need in-person schooling, and in-person interactions.”

Districts including Chicago, Philadelphia and Los Angeles have plans to bring back young children first when they eventually reopen classrooms.

In Rhode Island, Gov. Gina Raimondo, a strong proponent of keeping schools open, recently asked colleges to shift to all-remote learning after Thanksgiving and gave districts the option of reducing the number of high school students attending in person. She said there was “not a shred of data to suggest schools are major spreaders,” but said that high schools had proved to be more problematic than elementary and middle schools, because the students are more mobile.

That model of giving priority to younger students has been pioneered in Europe, where many countries have kept primary schools open even as most other parts of public life have closed during the continent’s second wave.

Italy has kept its primary schools open but left middle and high schools remote-only, and while all schools in Germany are open, discussions about possible closures have focused mainly on high schools.

In America, more and more districts have begun to prioritize elementary school students for in-person learning.

In urban districts, which generally have been slower to reopen than rural and suburban districts, that has meant making plans to bring back the youngest students first. In parts of the Midwest where school districts were more aggressive about reopening, and where there has been a huge rise in cases, public health officials have emphasized keeping elementary schools open even as they have closed high schools and in some cases middle schools.

“The data is becoming more compelling that there is very limited transmission in day care and grade schools,” said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s coronavirus task force, in a recent interview.

“I keep telling people, ‘Stop talking about kids — talk about those younger than 10,’” he added. “We’re seeing a very different epidemiology in that group than we’re seeing, for example, in high school students.”

The data is far from perfect, but several studies have suggested that children under 10 transmit the virus less efficiently than older children or adults.

A study published in the journal Pediatrics surveyed 57,000 child care providers across the United States and found that those who continued working during the first three months of the pandemic were not any more likely to get sick than those whose programs closed.

That evidence has allowed experts to focus on urgent concerns about how young children are actually learning during the pandemic. Mr. Haspel and others have raised urgent concerns about children’s ability to learn how to read over an iPad or laptop screen.

When teachers attempt to teach reading remotely, “you are really kind of tying one leg to the other and trying to run a race,” he said, in part because young children often need small group or individual instruction.

Every aspect of remote learning, from signing in to completing assignments, requires basic literacy. That is why so many parents and caretakers have had to sacrifice work or bring their children to day care centers so that the children can get full-time help completing tasks online.

Abundant evidence has shown that students who are not reading by third grade have an extremely hard time catching up with their peers who do and are more likely to drop out of high school.

Crucially, reopening elementary schools — while keeping middle and high schools closed — has become the favored option of influential teachers’ unions, whose leaders have pushed to delay reopening plans in some cities because of lack of federal funding, insufficient safety measures and an outpouring of concern from rank-and-file educators about returning to classrooms.

But Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, the nation’s second largest teachers’ union, said New York’s plan to bring back elementary school students with stringent safety protocols could be a national model.

“What we’ve learned is that, unlike adults, elementary school students actually follow the rules, and actually have been really good at wearing their masks and adhering to physical distancing, and are really grateful about having school,” she said. “The fact that young kids follow the rules and pedagogically need in-person education is a good news story.”

When New York announced its new reopening plan, Ms. Weingarten offered her clear endorsement, and a supportive statement from the United Federation of Teachers, New York City’s teachers’ union, quickly followed.

Asked why his administration was turning its focus to young children, Mr. de Blasio said Sunday, “I feel for all our parents who are experiencing so many challenges right now, how important it is for them to have their younger kids in school, how important that is at that age, both educationally and socially.”

Some New York City schools are reopening despite rising cases here. But other districts, including Chicago, Los Angeles and Philadelphia, have pledged to reopen schools, starting with young children, only when — or if — virus cases stabilize.

Officials in Las Vegas and its surrounding suburbs had hoped to restart in-person learning in November. Then came a steep rise in cases that forced the district to delay its plan until at least February.

But the school superintendent, Jesus Jara, said he is intent on bringing as many students back as possible, in part because of the catastrophic toll of remote learning on children’s mental health: There have already been 12 student suicides this academic year in the district, Dr. Jara said.

Young children will restart in-person classes first when classrooms reopen.

“That has been our biggest concern, that our babies have been home without face-to-face instruction for so long,” Dr. Jara said.

A few districts have prioritized the youngest children from the beginning.

In Massachusetts, the Cambridge public school district has brought back students in preschool and children in prekindergarten through first grade, along with some students in all grades who have disabilities or are learning English.

Some districts that opened earlier in the fall for all grades — and have seen cases rise sharply — have chosen to move high schools, and in some cases middle schools, to remote learning but to keep elementary schools open.

On Nov. 15, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, a Democrat, issued an emergency order shutting down indoor service at bars and restaurants, closing casinos and movie theaters, halting most organized sports and forcing high schools and colleges to transition to remote learning.

But the state kept open elementary and middle schools, saying that younger students needed in-person learning the most and that there had been fewer outbreaks associated with elementary and middle schools than with high schools and colleges.

And in Johnson County, Kan., a suburb of Kansas City where cases are surging, school districts have switched middle and high school to remote learning while keeping in-person classes for elementary schools.

But in some parts of the country, politicians and education officials have resisted calls to close high schools even as the virus ravaged their communities throughout the fall. President Trump has continued to insist that schools should remain open, even though school leaders across the country have said they need more federal stimulus dollars to reopen safely.

Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, a Republican, has been one of the most vocal proponents of school reopening. On Monday, he said officials who sought to close schools were akin to “today’s flat-earthers.”





No.3 article:
Without Crowds, Is Times Square Really Times Square? Take a Look

The throngs of visitors have disappeared from New York City’s famous neighborhood, and there is an eeriness to the emptiness.

A tour bus agent desperately tried to discern which passers-by were New Yorkers and which ones were out-of-towners. Newlyweds from Maryland, hoping to celebrate their nuptials with a special dinner, had to settle for McDonald’s. Four homeless men sat on a sidewalk, sharing cigarettes and a pipe filled with marijuana.

This is Times Square, jarringly quiet beneath flashing billboards. Times Square needs a crowd, which is as much a part of its character as the incessant lights.

“Look around,” said Ronnie Boyd, 54, from Brooklyn, who has been selling souvenir hats and T-shirts on the sidewalk in the area since 2004. “Without the Broadway shows, the office workers, the tourists, the crowds, you got no Times Square.”

The throngs of visitors — the trademark of the famous neighborhood for more than a century — are gone. The air is no longer thick with the aroma of hot dogs and roasting nuts. Broadway theaters are closed. Office buildings, which drew a daily work force of millions, are nearly vacant. And there is an eeriness to the emptiness, helping to stir the faint fear that Times Square could slip back to its 1970s self, a seamy neighborhood known for open crime, drugs and sex shows.

The neighborhood’s transformation — from gritty to “Disney” — was a significant chapter in the revitalization of New York City, even as detractors criticized the new Times Square as losing its edge. Times Square has an outsized share of the city’s economic activity, despite occupying only 0.1 percent of the city’s land mass, said Tim Tompkins, president of the Times Square Alliance, the area’s business improvement district.

Before the pandemic, the square, where Broadway meets Seventh Avenue from 42nd to 47th streets, helped to draw a crush of tourists to the city. A record 66.6 million visited the city in 2019, with many making their way to a show, the New Year’s Eve ball drop or to a little patch of sidewalk just to stand beneath all those lights. That level of tourism is not likely to return until 2024, according to one forecast.

Times Square is now a microcosm of the city’s struggle to survive the pandemic, as restaurants and businesses close and residents lose their jobs. There are no crowds to shield and disguise the population of homeless people, mostly men, living there on the street.

“Times Square has always been New York on steroids, so whatever is happening in New York City is amplified in Times Square,” said Mr. Tompkins.

Beginning in August, overnight counts tallied by Times Square Alliance staffers reported that the number of people sleeping on the street in Times Square was roughly double the 2019 levels, and many are “much more aggressive with passers-by or are ignoring social distancing,” said Mr. Tompkins.

Despite the shortage of tourists, Ruth Njuguna, the tour bus agent, still searched for likely customers to consider her sales pitch, passing out pamphlets and wearing a placard around her neck bearing her name, “Miss Ruth.”

“People came from all over the world to Times Square, and now they’re just not coming,” she said.

Before the pandemic, willing tourists would buy up to 100 tickets a day, Ms. Njuguna said, which allowed her to support her two children in the Bronx and send some money home to relatives in Kenya. Now, there are days when she may sell merely two or three tickets.

Visitors have slowly returned, especially on nights and weekends. And the district has re-emerged occasionally as a central gathering spot for events such as Black Lives Matter protests and celebrations after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory was declared.

Still, the district feels empty by Times Square standards. About 108,000 pedestrians pass through the area each day compared with 380,000 before the pandemic. Over the extended Thanksgiving weekend, Times Square had a third of the usual foot traffic, the alliance said.

Mr. Tompkins said it was still unclear whether December would bring a holiday bump, given the pandemic restrictions.

The office towers largely remain empty, and most of the hotels in the area have closed, at least temporarily, including the 478-room Hilton Times Square, as have stores like Old Navy and the U.S. Polo Association. Restaurants such as Planet Hollywood, the Hard Rock Café and Dave and Buster’s have not yet reopened.

Between March and the end of October, at least 26 of the 46 hotels in the Times Square area shut, at least temporarily, the alliance said, and 39 of the 151 retailers closed, as did 84 of the 162 restaurants.

Of the two multiplexes on 42nd Street, the Regal has closed permanently and the AMC Empire 25, the top-grossing theater in the country, remains closed because of city restrictions on movie theaters.

The annual New Year’s Eve ball drop, which draws crowds of more than one million, will be held without live spectators this year. Broadway theaters will remain closed at least until June, and few believe any substantial comeback in the area will happen before that.

Formerly known as Longacre Square, Times Square was renamed in 1904 after The New York Times moved its headquarters to a newly erected building at what is now One Times Square, the site of the annual New Year’s Eve ball drop.

After World War I, it became a cultural hub full of theaters, music halls and upscale hotels, as well as the city’s main gathering spot, but by the 1960s the area had grown increasingly seedy — rife with go-go bars, sex shops, peep shows and adult theaters. It became synonymous with the city’s decline through the 1970s and 1980s as crime rates soared, before city and state officials in the 1990s took over the revitalization of 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenue.

Now, Times Square may feel sketchier without the festive crowds, but the sharp decline in visitors and workers has actually caused a drop in crime.

The total number of major crimes in the Midtown South precinct, which covers much of Times Square, has declined so far this year by nearly 22 percent, compared to the same time period last year. With fewer visitors, the number of grand larcenies, which often involve electronics and credit cards, dropped from 1,718 last year to 1,026 so far this year, while there has been a rise in burglaries, most likely of closed stores and restaurants.

The pandemic came down hardest on Times Square’s anchor block, 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, which is now a shadow of its pre-pandemic self. The block saw a 70 percent decline in pedestrian traffic compared to last year, according to a study conducted by the alliance.

Roughly 80 percent of its businesses are now closed or inactive, including theaters where “Aladdin” and “Harry Potter” were playing when the lockdown came.

“There isn’t a single block that went so quickly and so hard from everything blooming in full to everything shut down,” Mr. Tompkins said. “The city and state spent two decades and tens of millions of dollars turning it around. It was a major economic engine, and it has completely shut down.”

Alan Rosen owns two outposts of Junior’s Restaurant in Times Square that were among the busiest independent restaurants in the country last year, having served nearly two million diners combined.

Their kitschy New York deli décor lies darkened behind locked doors. Although indoor dining is permitted at 25 percent capacity in the city, Mr. Rosen has visited Times Square recently to “feel the vibe” and has decided he still cannot open because the area is too quiet.

“There are people who say it’s going to back to the way it was in the ’70s,” Mr. Rosen said. He said that he is not one of those naysayers, but rather believes that Times Square will bounce back with the return of Broadway, tourism, hotel use and office workers.

For now though, there are no crowds, and vulnerable people living on the street are more visible.

People who have no housing have been pushed out of the subway system since it began closing each night from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. for cleaning. To combat the spread of coronavirus, the city removed thousands of people from crowded shelters and into hotels emptied of tourists.

Advocates say many newly arrived homeless people also have left crowded shelters on their own, taking their chances on the streets during the pandemic. In the hotels, two strangers generally share a room, an arrangement that can also spread the virus.

One of those new residents on the street in Times Square is Shakeem Lofton, 45.

He reclined on a blue blanket and a pillow propped up against a newsstand on Seventh Avenue near West 44th Street on a recent weekday and said he had left an uptown Manhattan shelter because of virus fears and had chosen this location because it seemed like the best spot to panhandle.

“I figured I’d be safer taking my chances on the street than sleeping next to all those people,” he said.

On another day, Benjamin Creel, 35, sat with three other homeless men who shared cigarettes and a pipe filled with marijuana.

“A year ago, we couldn’t even be sitting here because the crowds were so thick — now there’s barely anyone on the sidewalk,” said Mr. Creel, adding that the number of new homeless people in Times Square has increased during the pandemic.

“You’re definitely seeing more, that’s for sure,” said Mr. Creel who said he has lived on the city’s streets, on and off, since first arriving six years after losing his roofing job in Elmira, N.Y., and going through a divorce.

His survival strategy involved panhandling with a cardboard sign bearing the message “I Need Weed,” which was both true and a good sales pitch, he said.

“Before Covid, I could clear 80 to 100 bucks a day on the street — sometimes you get a tourist to throw you a 20,” he said. “But with the pandemic, there’s no tourist and no festivities going on, and New Yorkers are struggling too, so I’m lucky if I make 10 bucks a day.”

Ismael Guillen, 25, and Jennifer Medrano, 19, from Pasadena, Md., stood in a nearly deserted pedestrian plaza near 44th Street on a recent weekday.

Perhaps nothing is more striking about Times Square than the sheer emptiness of it, compared to its pre-pandemic self, something that was not lost on the newlyweds.

The couple took a few rare days off from their jobs at Chick-fil-A for a brief honeymoon in Times Square.

“It’s definitely not what I expected, compared to the crowded Times Square you see in the movies and pictures,” Ms. Medrano said. Mr. Guillen said he had visited several times before, including ringing in 2018 on New Year’s Eve with packed crowds.

Knowing Times Square’s reputation for late night activity, the couple went out after 9 p.m. one evening for dinner and tried the Hard Rock Cafe, Red Lobster and the Olive Garden, but all were closed.

They ate at McDonald’s.

“It’s the same place, but it’s a totally different experience,” Mr. Guillen said. “It’s totally opposite of what it used to be.”





No.4 article:
As Trump Attacks Georgia Republicans, Party Worries About Senate Races

Some Republicans in the state fear that the doubt President Trump is sowing about the fairness of the election could depress turnout for the crucial Senate runoff races.

President Trump’s sustained assault on his own party in Georgia, and his repeated claims of election fraud in the state, have intensified worries among Republicans that he could be hurting their ability to win two crucial Senate runoff races next month.

The president has continued to claim without evidence that his loss in the new battleground state was fraudulent, directing his ire in particular at Gov. Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, both conservative Republicans, whom he has accused of not doing enough to help him overturn the result.

Over the weekend, he escalated his attacks on Mr. Kemp, saying he was “ashamed” to have endorsed him in 2018, and on Monday he called Mr. Kemp “hapless” as he urged him to “overrule his obstinate Republican Secretary of state.”

Mr. Trump’s broadsides have quietly rattled some Republicans in the state, who fear that concerns about the fairness of the presidential election could depress turnout for the Senate races, which will determine whether Democrats or Republicans control the chamber.

After resisting entreaties to appear in Georgia, the president plans to travel there this weekend, though even some of his own aides remain uncertain whether his anger toward state officials will overshadow any support he may lend the party’s two candidates.

“You can’t say the system is rigged but elect these two senators,” said Eric Johnson, a campaign adviser to Kelly Loeffler, one of the G.O.P. Senate candidates, and a former Republican leader of the Georgia Senate. “At some point he either drops it or he says I want everybody to vote and get their friends to vote so that the margins are so large that they can’t steal it.”

The split signifies both an extraordinary dispute over election integrity within the Republican Party and a preview of the control the president may continue to exert over the conservative base even after he leaves office. As Mr. Trump talks seriously about the possibility of mounting another bid for the White House in 2024, his personal goals may not always align with those of his party — no matter the political stakes.

“I had someone message me just last week saying: ‘Nope, I’m done. Can’t trust the election. Never voting again,’” said Buzz Brockway, a former Republican state representative. “The president has a very dedicated group of supporters who don’t really support the broader Republican Party — they support him.”

Mr. Trump, who earned about 12,700 fewer votes than Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Georgia, has requested a machine recount, which is underway. A hand recount of all five million ballots found a few thousand uncounted ballots that slightly reduced Mr. Biden’s lead.

Already, a handful of Trump allies, citing fears of fraud, are urging supporters to boycott the Senate elections or write in the president’s name — an option not provided on the Georgia ballot in runoffs.

L. Lin Wood, a conservative Georgia lawyer and a Trump ally, is advising conservatives not to vote in the runoff elections, tweeting on Sunday that he won’t vote in “another fraudulent election with rigged voting machines &amp; fake mail ballots.” Mr. Wood sued unsuccessfully to stop the state’s election certification and is now appealing for an injunction to stop the Jan. 5 runoff contests.

While that remains a fringe position, some Republican strategists and officials worry that the argument for not voting could gain traction if the president continues his attacks.

In Marietta, Ga., this weekend, Republican voters questioned Ronna McDaniel, the national party chairwoman, about why they should invest “money and time” in a runoff election that some see as already rigged against them.

“It’s not decided. This is the key — it’s not decided,” she pleaded with the audience. “If you lose your faith and you don’t vote and people walk away, that will decide it. We have to work hard.”

Many top G.O.P. officials, including the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, have not commented on Mr. Trump’s attacks on Georgia’s electoral system. But his vitriol has roiled Republican politics in the state, where Mr. Biden upended several decades of G.O.P. dominance with a surprising victory over the president.

Historically, runoff contests have favored Republicans because of a drop-off of Democratic voters after the general election. But given the demographic changes in the state and concentrated efforts by Democrats to register more of their voters — and persuade them to cast absentee ballots before Election Day — many Republicans are preparing for a far tighter contest.

Parties, activists and allied outside groups have poured money and manpower into the state, investing heavily in advertising and grass-roots efforts.

Aware of Mr. Trump’s popularity with conservative voters, both Ms. Loeffler and David Perdue, the other G.O.P. senator seeking a new term, have bolstered Mr. Trump’s assertion on Twitter that the 2020 election was a “total scam,” and called for Mr. Raffensperger to resign. Mr. Kemp, who was elected governor with the president’s backing and is already raising money for his re-election bid in 2022, is wary of angering Mr. Trump while still trying to support the state officials who conducted a free and fair election.

On Monday, Mr. Kemp’s office released a statement noting that Georgia law prohibits the governor from interfering in elections, disputing Mr. Trump’s claim that he could override decisions by the secretary of state with an executive order.

Mr. Kemp’s campaign for governor, meanwhile, sent an email to supporters emphasizing his support for continuing “investigations into ALL voting irregularities” — a reflection of how important it is to appeal to Mr. Trump’s loyal base.

Mr. Raffensperger, who as Georgia’s top election official has borne the brunt of Trump supporters’ attacks, pushed back on Monday against the baseless conspiracy theories being floated by the president and his allies, in particular that software used by the state was manipulated by foreign oligarchs.

Like Mr. Kemp, Mr. Raffensperger is in a precarious position; even as he refuses to take steps to override the will of Georgia voters, he is also seeking to convince Republicans that he will be aggressive in ferreting out claims of liberal fraud.

“There are those who are exploiting the emotions of many Trump supporters with fantastic claims,” he said at a news conference on Monday morning. “Half-truths, misinformation, and frankly, they’re misleading the president as well, apparently.”

He also announced that his office was beginning investigations into four get-out-the-vote groups, including the New Georgia Project, which was founded by Stacey Abrams, Mr. Kemp’s 2018 rival in the governor’s race and the de facto leader of the Georgia Democrats. Mr. Raffensperger said that the groups were “working to register people in other states to vote here in Georgia.”

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker from Georgia and a Trump supporter, said that the dissatisfaction with Mr. Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger was so widespread among Republican activists that he anticipated primary challenges against both men two years from now.

“I’ve had very close friends write me and say, ‘I have a Republican governor and secretary of state, and they’re both useless, so why do I stay involved?’” Mr. Gingrich said. “But I think they’ll take pretty active measures to get people to turn out based on the long-term historical importance of these two seats.”

Some Republicans are striving to persuade Trump supporters to again engage with that very system the president is denigrating. Surrogates, including Vice President Mike Pence, have already campaigned in Georgia. Other Trump allies are forming a super PAC that will broadcast ads featuring Donald Trump Jr., a popular figure in right-wing circles, urging their supporters to vote in the runoff elections.

So far, the president himself has spent little time focused on the Senate races, and instead has been far more focused on his desire for a recount of his own loss. But advisers have stressed to him that a Republican Senate is important, and as Mr. Pence was also traveling to Georgia on Saturday, Mr. Trump agreed to go as well.

Republicans inside and outside of Mr. Trump’s camp are divided as to whether an appearance will be productive. Some think it will help, since the party’s base voters will respond to him. Top Republicans have encouraged him to make the trip. But some of the president’s advisers are concerned about exactly how off-script he might go, and whether he will spend most of his speech attacking Mr. Kemp and other Republicans.

“I would hope when the president is in Georgia Saturday, he talks about the importance of turning out the vote,” Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, said Monday. “And I think what he says on that trip will probably matter more than what he has said up until now.”

The president’s attacks on Georgia’s voting system are part of his overall efforts to undermine the electoral system, as a way of rationalizing his defeat. He has directed his anger at other states, and governors, as he did Monday with Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona.

But unlike in other states, where down-ballot races are largely decided, Mr. Trump’s rhetoric in Georgia could carry long-term political consequences for both parties. If Republicans hold only one of the two seats, they will keep the Senate majority, giving them an effective veto over Mr. Biden’s agenda.

“As legal options are exhausted, conservatives will move on to the next fight,” said Brad Todd, a Republican strategist. “More than likely watching Nancy Pelosi be sworn in and seeing the scaffolding on the west front of the Capitol preparing for an inauguration is going to cause a unity of purpose among conservatives.”

James Sublett, 67, voted for Mr. Trump this year and believes the president’s unfounded claims that Democrats “stole the election.”

“The Democrats have cheated, they have dead people vote, they manufactured votes,” said Mr. Sublett, a retired real estate broker.

Still, he said it was important to vote in the Georgia runoffs.

“If we don’t get those Republican seats, this country is turning into socialism and communism 101,” Mr. Sublett said.





No.5 article:
Scott Atlas, a Trump Coronavirus Adviser, Resigns

Dr. Atlas joined the White House in August as a special government employee for a limited term, prompting clashes with government scientists over his contentious theories.

WASHINGTON — Dr. Scott W. Atlas, the former Stanford University radiologist who espoused controversial theories and rankled government scientists while advising President Trump on the coronavirus pandemic, resigned his White House position on Monday.

The move was not entirely unexpected. Dr. Atlas joined the White House in August as a special government employee for a limited term after he caught Mr. Trump’s eye with his frequent appearances on Fox News over the summer. Dr. Atlas’s term was set to expire this week.

“I worked hard with a singular focus — to save lives and help Americans through this pandemic,” Dr. Atlas wrote in a letter that he posted Monday night on Twitter, adding, “I always relied on the latest science and evidence, without any political consideration or influence.” Fox News earlier reported his resignation.

But some of Dr. Atlas’s Trump administration colleagues would most likely contradict that assessment, citing views starkly different from those put forth by officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and by other government scientists. Dr. Atlas has argued, for example, that the science of mask wearing is uncertain and that children cannot spread the coronavirus.

Even more contentious was his libertarian vision of the role of the government in the pandemic. In Dr. Atlas’s view, the government’s job was not to stamp out the virus but simply to protect its most vulnerable citizens as Covid-19 took its course.

His argument was that most people infected with the coronavirus would not get seriously ill, and at some point, enough people would have antibodies from Covid-19 to deprive the virus of carriers — so-called herd immunity. Dr. Atlas also railed against anything that smacked of a lockdown or business closure.

“Protect the high-risk; open schools, society,” he tweeted in October. “Alternative? Confine healthy people, restrict business, close schools…kills people, destroys families, sacrifices kids. #RationalThinking.”

Public health experts were appalled and warned that his ideas were dangerous and would have disastrous results.

But that did not stop Dr. Atlas. In mid-November, he called on people in Michigan to “rise up” against coronavirus restrictions. The state’s governor, Gretchen Whitmer, who had faced death threats and a thwarted kidnapping attempt over the restrictions, denounced him as “incredibly reckless.”

But in his resignation letter and the accompanying tweet, Dr. Atlas defended himself.

“We also identified and illuminated early on the harms of prolonged lockdowns, including that they create massive physical health losses and psychological distress, destroy families and damage our children,” he wrote.

“And more and more,” he added, “the relatively low risk to children of serious harms from the infection, the less frequent spread from children, the presence of immunologic protection beyond that shown by antibody testing, and the severe harms from closing schools and society are all being acknowledged.”

Inside the administration, Dr. Atlas clashed in particular with Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease specialist, and Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the coronavirus response coordinator.

While Dr. Atlas was playing down the necessity of wearing masks, Dr. Birx was traveling the country preaching the opposite. She implored governors and public health officials in hard-hit states to take more aggressive steps. The two also clashed repeatedly in private.

But Dr. Atlas’s disagreements with Dr. Fauci were more visceral — and more public.

After the election, Dr. Atlas accused Dr. Fauci of being a “political animal” who changed his assessment of the threat of the pandemic after it became clear that Mr. Trump had lost. Dr. Fauci replied in kind.

“I don’t want to say anything against Dr. Atlas as a person, but I totally disagree with the stand he takes,” he said recently on the “Today” show on NBC, after Dr. Atlas’s comments about Michigan. “I just do, period.”

But Dr. Atlas had the ear of the one person who mattered: Mr. Trump.

“He has many great ideas,” the president told reporters in August at a White House briefing, with Dr. Atlas seated feet away. “And he thinks what we’ve done is really good, and now we’ll take it to a new level.”





No.6 article:
Covid Combat Fatigue: ‘I Would Come Home With Tears in My Eyes’

About 2 a.m. on a sweltering summer night, Dr. Orlando Garner awoke to the sound of a thud next to his baby daughter’s crib. He leapt out of bed to find his wife, Gabriela, passed out, her forehead hot with the same fever that had stricken him and his son, Orlando Jr., then 3, just hours before. Two days later, it would hit their infant daughter, Veronica.

Nearly five months later, Dr. Garner, a critical care physician at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, is haunted by what befell his family last summer: He had inadvertently shuttled the coronavirus home, and sickened them all.

“I felt so guilty,” he said. “This is my job, what I wanted to do for a living. And it could have killed my children, could have killed my wife — all this, because of me.”

With the case count climbing again in Texas, Dr. Garner has recurring nightmares that one of his children has died from Covid. He’s returned to 80-hour weeks in the intensive care unit, donning layers of pandemic garb including goggles, an N95 respirator, a protective body suit and a helmet-like face shield that forces him to yell to be heard.

As he treats one patient after another, he can’t shake the fear that his first bout with the coronavirus won’t be his last, even though reinfection is rare: “Is this going to be the one who gives me Covid again?”

Frontline health care workers have been the one constant, the medical soldiers forming row after row in the ground war against the raging spread of the coronavirus. But as cases and deaths shatter daily records, foreshadowing one of the deadliest years in American history, the very people whose life mission is caring for others are on the verge of collective collapse.

In interviews, more than two dozen frontline medical workers described the unrelenting stress that has become an endemic part of the health care crisis nationwide. Many related spikes in anxiety and depressive thoughts, as well as a chronic sense of hopelessness and deepening fatigue, spurred in part by the cavalier attitudes of many Americans who seem to have lost patience with the pandemic.

Surveys from around the globe have recorded rising rates of depression, trauma and burnout among a group of professionals already known for high rates of suicide. And while some have sought therapy or medications to cope, others fear that engaging in these support systems could blemish their records and dissuade future employers from hiring them.

“We’re sacrificing so much as health care providers — our health, our family’s health,” said Dr. Cleavon Gilman, an emergency medicine physician in Yuma, Ariz. “You would think that the country would have learned its lesson” after the spring, he said. “But I feel like the 20,000 people that died in New York died for nothing.”

Many have reached the bottom of their reservoir, with little left to give, especially without sufficient tools to defend themselves against a disease that has killed more than 1,000 of them.

“I haven’t even thought about how I am today,” said Dr. Susannah Hills, a pediatric head and neck surgeon at Columbia University. “I can’t think of the last time somebody asked me that question.”

For Dr. Shannon Tapia, a geriatrician in Colorado, April was bad. So was May. At one long-term care facility she staffed, 22 people died in 10 days. “After that number, I stopped counting,” she said.

A bit of a lull coasted in on a wave of summer heat. But in recent weeks, Dr. Tapia has watched the virus resurge, sparking sudden outbreaks and felling nursing home residents — one of the pandemic’s most hard-hit populations — in droves.

“This is much, much worse than the spring,” Dr. Tapia said. “Covid is going crazy in Colorado right now.”

Dr. Tapia bore witness as long-term care facilities struggled to keep adequate protective equipment in stock, and decried their lack of adequate tests. As recently as early November, diagnostic tests at one home Dr. Tapia regularly visits took more than a week to deliver results, hastening the spread of the virus among unwitting residents.

Some nursing home residents in the Denver area are getting bounced out of full hospitals because their symptoms aren’t severe, only to rapidly deteriorate and die in their care facilities. “It just happens so fast,” Dr. Tapia said. “There’s no time to send them back.”

The evening of Nov. 17, Dr. Tapia fielded phone call after phone call from nursing homes brimming with the sick and the scared. Four patients died between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m. “It was the most death pronouncements I’ve ever had to do in one night,” she said.

Before the pandemic, nursing home residents were already considered a medically neglected population. But the coronavirus has only exacerbated a worrisome chasm of care for older patients. Dr. Tapia is beleaguered by the helplessness she feels at every turn. “Systematically, it makes me feel like I’m failing,” she said. “The last eight months almost broke me.”

At the end of the summer, Dr. Tapia briefly considered leaving medicine — but she is a single parent to an 11-year-old son, Liam. “I need my M.D. to support my kid,” she said.

For others, the slog has been relentless.

Dr. Gilman, the emergency medicine physician in Yuma, braced himself at the beginning of the pandemic, relying on his stint as a hospital corpsman in Iraq in 2004.

“In the military, they train you to do sleep deprivation, hikes, marches,” he said. “You train your body, you fight an enemy. I began running every day, getting my lungs strong in case I got the virus. I put a box by the door to put my clothes in, so I wouldn’t spread it to my family.”

The current crisis turned out to be an unfamiliar and formidable foe that would follow him from place to place.

Dr. Gilman’s first coronavirus tour began as a resident at New York-Presbyterian at the height of last spring. He came to dread the phone calls to families unable to be near their ailing relatives, hearing “the same shrill cry, two or three times per shift,” he said. Months of chaos, suffering and pain, he said, left him “just down and depressed and exhausted.”

“I would come home with tears in my eyes, and just pass out,” he said.

The professional fallout of his Covid experience then turned personal.

Dr. Gilman canceled his wedding in May. His June graduation commenced on Zoom. He celebrated the end of his residency in his empty apartment next to a pile of boxes.

“It was the saddest moment ever,” he said.

Within weeks, he, his fiancée, Maribel, their two daughters and his mother-in-law had relocated to Arizona, where caseloads had just begun to swell. Dr. Gilman hunkered down anew.

They have weathered the months since in seclusion, keeping the children out of school and declining invitations to mingle, even as their neighbors begin to flock back together and buzz about their holiday plans.

There are bright spots, he said. The family’s home, which they moved into this summer, is large, and came with a pool. They recently adopted a puppy. Out in the remoteness of small-town Arizona, the desert has delighted them with the occasional roadrunner sighting.

Since the spring, Dr. Gilman has become a social media tour de force. To document the ongoing crisis, he began publishing journal entries on his website. His Twitter wall teems with posts commemorating people who lost their lives to Covid-19, and the health workers who have dedicated the past nine months to stemming the tide.

It’s how he has made sense of the chaos, Dr. Gilman said. What he’s fighting isn’t just the virus itself — but a contagion of disillusionment and misinformation, amid which mask-wearing and distancing continue to flag. “It’s a constant battle, it’s a never-ending war,” he said.

Nurses and doctors in New York became all too familiar with the rationing of care last spring. No training prepared them for the wrath of the virus, and its aftermath. The month-to-month, day-to-day flailing about as they tried to cope. For some, the weight of the pandemic will have lingering effects.

Shikha Dass, an emergency room nurse at Mount Sinai Queens, recalled nights in mid-March when her team of eight nurses had to wrangle some 15 patients each — double or triple a typical workload. “We kept getting code after code, and patients were just dying,” Ms. Dass said. The patients quickly outnumbered the available breathing support machines, she said, forcing doctors and nurses to apportion care in a rapid-fire fashion.

“We didn’t have enough ventilators,” Ms. Dass said. “I remember doing C.P.R. and cracking ribs. These were people from our community — it was so painful.”

Ms. Dass wrestled with sleeplessness and irritability, sniping at her husband and children. Visions of the dead, strewn across emergency room cots by the dozens, swam through her head at odd hours of the night. Medical TV dramas like Grey’s Anatomy, full of the triggering sounds of codes and beeping machines, became unbearable to watch. She couldn’t erase the memory of the neat row of three refrigerated trailers in her hospital parking lot, each packed with bodies that the morgue was too full to take.

One morning, after a night shift, Ms. Dass climbed into her red Mini Cooper to start her 20-minute drive home. Her car chugged onto its familiar route; a song from the 2017 film “The Greatest Showman” trickled out. For the first time since the pandemic began, Ms. Dass broke down and began to cry. She called her husband, who was on his way to work; he didn’t pick up. Finally, she reached her best friend.

“I told her, ‘These people are not going to make it, these people are not going to survive this,’” she said. “We’re there to save a person, save a life, stabilize a person so they can get further management. And here I am, not able to do that.”

Shortly after, she phoned a longtime friend, Andi Lyn Kornfeld, a psychotherapist who said Ms. Dass was in the throes of “absolute and utter acute PTSD.”

“I have known Shikha for 13 years,” Ms. Kornfeld said. “She is one of the strongest women I have ever met. And I had never heard her like this.”

Long gone are the raucous nightly cheers, loud applause and clanging that bounced off buildings and hospital windows in the United States and abroad — the sounds of public appreciation at 7 each night for those on the pandemic’s front line.

“Nobody’s clapping anymore,” said Dr. Jessica Gold, a psychiatrist at Washington University in St. Louis. “They’re over it.”

Health workers, once a central part of the coronavirus conversation, have in many ways faded into the background. Some, like Dr. Gilman, in Arizona, have had their salaries slashed as hospitals weigh how to cover costs.

Many have guiltily recoiled from the “hero” label emblazoned in commercials or ad campaigns, burdened by the death march of the people they could not save and the indiscriminate path of the coronavirus.

The word “hero” evokes bravery and superhuman strength but leaves little room for empathy, said Dr. Nicole Washington, a psychiatrist in Oklahoma. When portrayed as stalwart saviors, health workers “don’t have the room or right to be vulnerable.”

But the trope of invincibility has long been ingrained into the culture of medicine.

Dr. Tapia, the Colorado geriatrician, began taking an antidepressant in September after months of feeling “everything from angry to anxious to furious to just numb and hopeless.” The medication has improved her outlook. But she also worries that these decisions could jeopardize future employment.

Many state medical boards still ask intrusive questions about physicians’ history of mental health diagnoses or treatments in applications to renew a license — a disincentive to many doctors who might otherwise seek professional help.

Being on the front lines doesn’t make health workers stronger or safer than anyone else. “I’m not trying to be a hero. I don’t want to be a hero,” Dr. Gilman said. “I want to be alive.”

As social bubbles balloon nationwide in advance of the chilly holiday months, health care workers fret on the edges of their communities, worried they are the carriers of contagion.

Dr. Marshall Fleurant, an internal medicine physician at Emory University, has the sense that his young children, 3 and 4 years old, have grown oddly accustomed to the ritual of his disrobing out of work clothes, from his scrubs to his sneakers, before entering his home.

“I do not touch or speak to my children before I have taken a shower,” Dr. Fleurant said. “This is just how it is. You do not touch Daddy when he walks in the door.”

A week of vacation with his family startled him, when he could scoop the little ones up in his arms without fear. “I think they must have thought that was weird,” he said.

Trapped in a holding pattern as the coronavirus continues to burn across the nation, doctors and nurses have been taking stock of the damage done so far, and trying to sketch out the horizon beyond. On the nation’s current trajectory, they say, the forecast is bleak.

Jina Saltzman, a physician assistant in Chicago, said she was growing increasingly disillusioned with the nation’s lax approach to penning in the virus.

While Illinois rapidly reimposed restrictions on restaurants and businesses when cases began to rise, Indiana, where Ms. Saltzman lives, was slower to respond. In mid-November, she was astounded to see crowds of unmasked people in a restaurant as she picked up a pizza. “It’s so disheartening. We’re coming here to work every day to keep the public safe,” she said. “But the public isn’t trying to keep the public safe.”

Since the spring, Dr. Gilman has watched three co-workers and a cousin die from the virus. Ms. Dass lost a close family friend, who spent three weeks at Mount Sinai Queens under her care. When Dr. Fleurant’s aunt died of Covid, “We never got to bury her, never got to pay respects. It was a crushing loss.”

In state after state, people continue to flood hospital wards, where hallways often provide makeshift beds for the overflow. More than 12 million cases have been recorded since the pandemic took hold in the United States, with the pace of infection accelerating in the last couple months.

Jill Naiberk, a nurse at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, has spent more of 2020 in full protective gear than out of it. About twice a day, when Ms. Naiberk needs a sip of water, she must completely de-gown, then suit up again.

Otherwise, “you’re hot and sweaty and stinky,” she said. “It’s not uncommon to come out of rooms with sweat running down your face, and you need to change your mask because it’s wet.”

It’s her ninth straight month of Covid duty. “My unit is 16 beds. Rarely do we have an open one,” she said. “And when we do have an open bed, it’s usually because somebody has passed away.”

Many of her I.C.U. patients are young, in their 40s or 50s. “They’re looking at us and saying things like, ‘Don’t let me die’ and ‘I guess I should have worn that mask,’” she said.

Sometimes she cries on her way home, where she lives alone with her two dogs. Her 79-year-old mother resides just a couple houses away.

They have not hugged since March.

“I keep telling everybody the minute I can safely hug you again, get ready,” she said. “Because I’m never letting go.”





No.7 article:
How Will Biden Deal With Republican Sabotage?

He needs to make the G.O.P. pay a price for obstruction.

When Joe Biden is inaugurated, he will immediately be confronted with an unprecedented challenge — and I don’t mean the pandemic, although Covid-19 will almost surely be killing thousands of Americans every day. I mean, instead, that he’ll be the first modern U.S. president trying to govern in the face of an opposition that refuses to accept his legitimacy. And no, Democrats by and large were not claiming Donald Trump was illegitimate, just that he was incompetent and dangerous.

It goes without saying that Donald Trump, whose conspiracy theories are getting wilder and wilder, will never concede, and that millions of his followers will always believe — or at least say they believe — that the election was stolen.

Most Republicans in Congress certainly know this is a lie, although even on Capitol Hill there are a lot more crazy than we’d like to imagine. But it doesn’t matter; they still won’t accept that Biden has any legitimacy, even though he won the popular vote by a large margin.

And this won’t simply be because they fear a backlash from the base if they admit that Trump lost fair and square. At a fundamental level — and completely separate from the Trump factor — today’s G.O.P. doesn’t believe that Democrats ever have the right to govern, no matter how many votes they receive.

After all, in recent years we’ve seen what happens when a state with a Republican legislature elects a Democratic governor: Legislators quickly try to strip away the governor’s powers. So does anyone doubt that Republicans will do all they can to hobble and sabotage Biden’s presidency?

The only real questions are how much harm the G.O.P. can do, and how Biden will respond.

The answer to the first question depends a lot on what happens in the Jan. 5 Georgia Senate runoffs. If Democrats win both seats, they’ll have effective though narrow control of both houses of Congress. If they don’t, Mitch McConnell will have enormous powers of obstruction — and anyone who doubts that he’ll use those powers to undermine Biden at every turn is living in a fantasy world.

But how much damage would obstructionism inflict? In terms of economic policy — which is all I’ll talk about in this column — the near future can be divided into two eras, pre- and post-vaccine (or more accurately, after wide dissemination of a vaccine).

For the next few months, as the pandemic continues to run wild, tens of millions of Americans will be in desperate straits unless the federal government steps up to help. Unfortunately, Republicans may be in a position to block this help.

The good news about the very near future, such as it is, is that Americans will probably (and correctly) blame Donald Trump, not Joe Biden, for the misery they’re experiencing — and this very fact may make Republicans willing to cough up at least some money.

What about the post-vaccine economy? Here again there’s potentially some good news: Once a vaccine becomes widely available, we’ll probably see a spontaneous economic recovery, one that won’t depend on Republican cooperation. And there will also be a vast national sense of relief.

So Biden might do OK for a while even in the face of scorched-earth Republican opposition. But we can’t be sure of that. Republicans might refuse to confirm anyone for key economic positions. There’s always the possibility of another financial crisis — and outgoing Trump officials have been systematically undermining the incoming administration’s ability to deal with such a crisis if it happens. And America desperately needs action on issues from infrastructure, to climate change, to tax enforcement that won’t happen if Republicans retain blocking power.

So what can Biden do?

First, he needs to start talking about immediate policy actions to help ordinary Americans, if only to make it clear to Georgia voters how much damage will be done if they don’t elect Democrats to those two Senate seats.

If Democrats don’t get those seats, Biden will need to use executive action to accomplish as much as possible despite Republican obstruction — although I worry that the Trump-stacked Supreme Court will try to block him when he does.

Finally, although Biden is still talking in a comforting way about unity and reaching across the aisle, at some point he’ll need to stop reassuring us that he’s nothing like Trump and start making Republicans pay a political price for their attempts to prevent him from governing.

Now, I don’t mean that he should sound like Trump, demanding retribution against his enemies — although the Justice Department should be allowed to do its job and prosecute whatever Trump-era crimes it finds.

No, what Biden needs to do is what Harry Truman did in 1948, when he built political support by running against “do-nothing” Republicans. And he’ll have a better case than Truman ever did, because today’s Republicans are infinitely more corrupt and less patriotic than the Republicans Truman faced.

The results of this year’s election, with a solid Biden win but Republicans doing well down-ballot, tells us that American voters don’t fully understand what the modern G.O.P. is really about. Biden needs to get that point across, and make Republicans pay for the sabotage we all know is coming.





No.8 article:
Quotation of the Day: U.S. Faces a New Crisis: ‘An Extreme Level of Teacher Burnout’

“Three years ago, we started to learn how to run from armed intruders. Last year we learned how to pack bullet wounds. This year, we’re trying to figure out how to bring back learning in a pandemic.”

AMANDA KAUPP, a high school psychology teacher in St. Louis.





No.9 article:
Review: A Ham’s ‘Christmas Carol,’ Without the Honey Glaze

The astonishing Jefferson Mays stars as everyone (and a potato) in a dark and pointed adaptation of the Dickens holiday classic.

Charles Dickens knew how to sell “A Christmas Carol.” For years, he even took it on tour.

Consider his sold-out appearance, on Dec. 9, 1867, at Steinway Hall on 14th Street in Manhattan, where he kept the audience rapt for 90 minutes as he read his 1843 novella aloud. With a variety of voices, faces he’d practiced in front of a mirror in Boston and, as The New York Times reported, a “free use of gesticulation,” he wowed the crowd with the tale of greed and redemption.

Though Dickens did not have the benefit of modern technology, just a customized rostrum, the same handcrafted spirit is summoned by the astonishing Jefferson Mays in a live-capture “Christmas Carol” stuffed with every trick and whiz-bang available. He plays not only Scrooge, Tiny Tim and various ghosts but also, in Michael Arden’s riveting film rendering, “the dying fire” and “an indignant potato.”

Yet however delightful it is to see Mays nail, in just one look or intonation, the essence of a vegetable knocking “loudly at the saucepan-lid to be let out and peeled,” as Dickens described that potato, this is not just a tour de force. The production, based on one Arden directed in 2018 for the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles, aims to reproduce what the novelist clearly intended his own readings to be: an opportunity to make what was already a classic story feel new, while also making it feel as if it should matter forever.

It should, and not just because the film, streamable through Jan. 3, is vastly effective as spooky entertainment. (It may even be too intense for some children.) Based on Dickens’s touring version of the tale, itself slightly altered from the printed text, this “Christmas Carol” is the most fearsome I’ve seen — I mean morally fearsome. It is thus the most faithful to a story that is not merely about the miserliness of one man, but, potentially, of all mankind.

So although there is plenty of ham here, starting with Mays’s snarling, paranoid Scrooge, whose lower lip hangs down to the left as if to provide an exit ramp for his bile, there is almost no honey glaze to sweeten it. Most “Christmas Carol” adaptations depend on that honey, just as theater companies that produce them each November depend on ticket sales generated by a familiar, “beloved” work they can market as family entertainment to finance the rest of their seasons. Even the impressive production from the Old Vic in London, streaming Dec. 12-24, makes the story as festive as it can, often by pelting it with food and music.

Not so with this version, adapted by Mays and Arden and Susan Lyons and conceived by Arden and the set designer Dane Laffrey. For one thing, it insists on emphasizing the act of storytelling, whether Mays is reciting the text as a lively but neutral narrator or portraying, seemingly simultaneously, all the characters in a scene.

As he demonstrated in “I Am My Own Wife” and “A Gentleman’s Guide to Love and Murder,” Mays is an astonishing quick-change artist. A heartier timbre gives us Scrooge’s nephew, Fred, in a flash; a flinging of hands makes an excitable child.

Even in the spiritual world, it takes just a shift of color from the lighting designer Ben Stanton and some increased reverb from the sound designer Joshua D. Reid to complete Mays’s leap from tormentor to tormented in Scrooge’s confrontations with Marley’s ghost. The other ghosts are rendered with similarly effective theatrical illusions, including shadows and puppetry by James Ortiz.

And though the drama is occasionally fleshed out with animations and recorded elements rendered on LED tiles built into the set — the haunting projection design is by Lucy Mackinnon — they retain a preindustrial aesthetic. Even the filmed figures seen attending a Christmas dance in Scrooge’s memory are kept upstage and deliberately blurry, their merriment generalized into distant hubbub. Mays remains always the most special effect.

That suits the subject. Filmed live but with no audience on Oct. 28 at United Palace in Manhattan’s Washington Heights neighborhood, this “Christmas Carol” uses theatricality as a metaphor for engagement in the lives of others; the auditorium, emptied by pandemic precautions, stands in well for Scrooge’s unpeopled heart. As scenes of other households’ happiness disappear on a turntable or vanish into the flies, he remains onstage for the entire 90 minutes, with only hints of a back story to explain his omnipresent awfulness.

It is actually one of the problems with “A Christmas Carol,” when adapted as drama, that Scrooge and his transformation are so thinly motivated: He is a horrible human until he gets freaked by a bad night’s sleep, at which point he turns into a completely lovely one.

Some have discerned in this an allegory for the unearned grace of Christian redemption, but Mays and Arden suggest a more relevant interpretation. Dickens doesn’t give Scrooge any normal psychology, they demonstrate, because the man, like the newly industrial society he profits from, does not need it. His greed is hard-wired, a genetic inheritance, a prehuman trait that this human has turned into a rage for power.

But not just one human. Perhaps unavoidably in our day, this “Christmas Carol” takes every opportunity to underline Dickens’s disapproval of a world that not only allows but is organized to require extreme inequality. (Dickens himself spent part of his boyhood working in a dismal boot polish factory when his father was sentenced to prison for debt.) Mays follows the money, never letting us forget that structural poverty makes misers of everyone. The Cratchits’ Christmas goose is admired for its tenderness, flavor and size but also, Mays emphasizes with an odd turn of voice, its “cheapness.”

Well, don’t let all that scare you too much. There are comic and musical moments throughout — albeit the fleeting comedy of ironic observation and the melancholy music of Sufjan Stevens singing carols. And we do get Dickens’s completely jolly ending.

But make no mistake, this is a production that understands “A Christmas Carol” as a work of protest no less than “Oliver Twist” and “Bleak House.” The question it raises isn’t whether Scrooge can be salvaged by an evening’s theatrics, but whether we can.





No.10 article:
‘Trump Is Better’: In Asia, Pro-Democracy Forces Worry About Biden

The president-elect’s aim of returning normalcy to foreign policy has spooked human rights defenders in Asia, who see President Trump as someone who confronted dictators.

BANGKOK — A dissident once branded Enemy No. 1 by the Chinese Communist Party is spreading conspiracy theories about the American presidential election.

Pro-democracy campaigners from Hong Kong are championing President Trump’s claims of an electoral victory.

Human rights activists and religious leaders in Vietnam and Myanmar are expressing reservations about President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s ability to keep authoritarians in check.

It might seem counterintuitive that Asian defenders of democracy are among the most ardent supporters of Mr. Trump, who has declared his friendship with Xi Jinping of China and Kim Jong-un of North Korea. But it is precisely Mr. Trump’s willingness to flout diplomatic protocol, abandon international accords and keep his opponents off-balance that have earned him plaudits as a leader strong enough to stand up to dictators and defend democratic ideals overseas, even if he has been criticized as diminishing them at home.

As President-elect Biden assembles his foreign-policy team, prominent human rights activists across Asia are worried about his desire for the United States to hew again to international norms. They believe that Mr. Biden, like former President Barack Obama, will pursue accommodation rather than confrontation in the face of China’s assertive moves. And their pro-Trump views have been cemented by online misinformation, often delivered by dubious news sources, that Mr. Biden is working in tandem with communists or is a closet socialist sympathizer.

“Biden is president, and it’s like having Xi Jinping sitting in the White House,” said Elmer Yuen, a Hong Kong entrepreneur who has posted YouTube videos criticizing the Chinese Communist Party, or C.C.P. “He wants to coexist with China, and whoever coexists with the C.C.P. loses.”

With Mr. Trump’s presidential tenure in its twilight, these activists are calling for the administration to make a final stand against Asian autocrats, similar to a last-ditch effort to expand the border wall with Mexico.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo took a five-nation swing through Asia in October in which he abandoned politesse and described the Chinese government as a “predator,” “lawless and threatening,” and “the gravest threat to the future of religious freedom.” The tour was meant as a counterweight to China in a region where Beijing’s dollar diplomacy has bought significant influence.

Earlier this month,  Lobsang Sangay became the first head of the Tibetan government-in-exile to visit the White House; the provocative invite infuriated Beijing, which considers Mr. Sangay to be a separatist.

In June, Mr. Pompeo attended a virtual gathering with the Hong Kong democracy leader Joshua Wong and President Tsai Ing-wen of Taiwan, both of whom are loathed by the Chinese government.

Mr. Trump’s popularity is particularly enduring among Christians, such as Chinese-born legal scholars chafing against Communism’s atheist core and ethnic minority activists in Southeast Asia. Mr. Pompeo and other Trump administration officials, they believe, have been fulfilling a faith-based mission overseas.

Last year, Mr. Trump met in the White House with a group of religious leaders from across the world, including Hkalam Samson, the president of the Kachin Baptist Convention, which represents the persecuted Christian Kachin minority in Myanmar.

“My experience in the White House, when I was given one minute to speak out about the Kachin, meant a lot, and it also meant that Trump cares about us,” Mr. Samson said. “Trump is better for the Kachin than Biden.”

Skepticism for Mr. Biden extends to those fighting for secular political rights as well. The president-elect’s embrace of diplomatic custom will not work when only one side is playing fairly, they say.

“For Biden’s policies toward China, the part about making China play by the international rules, I think, is very hollow,” said Wang Dan, who helped lead the 1989 Tiananmen protests as a university student. “As we know, the Chinese Communist Party hardly abides by international rules.”

“The United States must realize that there will be no improvements on human rights issues in China if there is no regime change,” Mr. Wang added. He has continued to question Mr. Trump’s electoral loss, baseless claims shared by other prominent Chinese-born dissidents.

But others within the community, particularly in Hong Kong and China, said that backing Mr. Trump was hypocritical at best and dangerous at worst.

“Trump’s human rights record — what he does to migrant children, the Muslim ban, white supremacy, alternative truth — removes him from my support, but this is apparently not the popular attitude among many dissidents in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan,” said Badiucao, a China-born political artist who now lives in self-exile in Australia.

Mr. Badiucao, who is known by a pseudonym to protect his family in China, has skirmished online with Mr. Wang and other well-known dissidents and has made the scuffle a topic for his art.

“These guys are utilitarian, and they believe that if Trump is waging war against the C.C.P. then he’s right for them,” Mr. Badiucao said. “That mentality fits the whole ‘America First’ ideology, where it’s OK for other people to suffer if your goal is met, and their goal is overthrowing the C.C.P.”

Over the past 12 months, the Trump administration has stepped up its actions in Asia.

Late last year, the U.S. government barred military leaders from Myanmar from entering the country because of their role in what Mr. Pompeo called “gross violations of human rights” of Rohingya Muslims and other minority groups. Financial sanctions were also placed on individuals in Pakistan and Cambodia, among other countries, where civil liberties are under threat.

This summer, the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, and 10 others for “undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy and restricting the freedom of expression or assembly of the citizens of Hong Kong.” Four more officials were added to the sanctions list this month.

In June, Mr. Trump signed legislation that led to sanctions being placed on Chinese officials who have overseen the construction of mass detention camps in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, where more than a million people, mostly members of the Uighur Muslim minority, have been imprisoned.

“The Trump administration by far has done more to raise our issue than all other countries combined,” said Salih Hudayar, who was born in Xinjiang and moved to the United States as a child. “I’m very skeptical of a Biden administration because I am worried he will allow China to go back to normal, which is a 21st-century genocide of the Uighurs.”

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Biden released a statement calling the situation in Xinjiang a “genocide.” The Trump administration has not used such a designation, and a book by his former national security adviser said that Mr. Trump told Mr. Xi that he should continue building the detention camps in Xinjiang.

Foreign policy advisers to Mr. Biden say that it is unfair to presume that he will continue the Obama administration’s moderate stance. It is, they say, a different era. The recent human rights legislation championed by the Trump administration has received broad bipartisan support.

And some Asian dissidents acknowledge that the antipathy toward Mr. Biden is driven in part by a deluge of online misinformation that paints the president-elect as a secret socialist or contends, without any proof, that foreign “communist money” turned the election against Mr. Trump. Such unsubstantiated claims have been repeated by niche online publications in Vietnamese, Chinese and other languages.

“The crisis of democracy in the world makes people, especially activists, confused and susceptible to the influence of conspiracy theories and information manipulation,” said Nguyen Quang A, a Vietnamese dissident who has been detained multiple times for his criticism of the country’s communist leadership. “Vietnam doesn’t have independent media, and people, especially activists, already hate mainstream media.”

One of the most influential voices spreading false narratives about Mr. Biden and the election on Twitter is Ai Weiwei, the Chinese contemporary artist who now lives in overseas exile.

In an interview, Mr. Ai said that he was not a fan of Mr. Trump. For his art, he has posed at Trump properties with his middle finger raised. But Mr. Ai said that by shutting off debate on his social media feed, he would be no different than an authoritarian government like China’s.

“All over Asia, all over the world, people don’t have the right to speak,” he said. “In America, left or right, you have personal freedoms. This has to be protected.”





No.11 article:
New York Road Runners Parts Ways With C.E.O. Amid Workplace Complaints

Michael Capiraso led the organization that puts on the New York City Marathon to record revenues but will leave after employees and others raised concerns about his leadership.

The New York Road Runners, the club that puts on the New York City Marathon, announced Monday that its chief executive would depart at the end of the year, amid complaints from current and former employees who questioned the organization’s commitment to diversity, social justice and gender equality as well as its financial management.

The executive, Michael Capiraso, who has led the Road Runners since 2015 and is credited with significantly increasing its revenues, will leave his post Dec. 31. Kerin Hempel, a former executive with the New York Road Runners who has worked as a consultant with McKinsey &amp; Co., will serve as the interim chief executive until a permanent replacement is named.

George Hirsch, the chairman of the organization, announced the leadership changes on Monday morning. He said the Road Runners’ board had spent the past months listening “to the concerns raised and recommendations offered by the community N.Y.R.R. serves, including its employees and members of the broader running community.”

“In order to achieve our mission to help and inspire people through running,&quot; he continued, “we will recruit new leadership to the organization.”

The Road Runners has been reviewing the way it has addressed systemic racism and social justice efforts since a wave of protests after the police killing of George Floyd inspired a re-examination of race nationwide. The review gained added urgency in August after a group of anonymous current and former employees published online a letter critical of the organization under the Instagram name “RebuildNYRR.”

The letter detailed a series of complaints about the Road Runners, including accusations of financial mismanagement and of failing to adequately address diversity and issues related to racism. The letter was critical of Capiraso’s commitment to the issues.

Steve Mura, the manager of running, training and education for the Road Runners, said Monday that Capiraso’s ouster was overdue.

“It shows that the higher-ups, higher leadership, has been listening to what employees have been saying, finally,” said Mura, 36, who has worked at the organization for six years. “This is one of the first major things that they have done to prove that they are listening.”

Before the letter was published, the organization said it had undertaken efforts to pay more attention to issues of race. In June, the Road Runners hired a diversity consultant, who spoke with employees both in groups and individually about their experiences. The consultant also began conducting a diversity and inclusion training program with the senior leadership team, the Road Runners said.

In November, the organization also hired Erica Edwards-O’Neal to serve as senior vice president of diversity, staffing a position that had been unfilled for more than a year. She will start in December.

At the same time, the board also hired a New York law firm to conduct an investigation of its workplace culture. According to two people with knowledge of the matter, that investigation is nearing its conclusion. The firm, Proskauer Rose, will deliver a report to the board of the organization; the New York Road Runners has said it will keep the report confidential to protect the identities of people who cooperated with it.

Mura said the meetings and discussions about diversity and inclusion had addressed the need for change, but that little change has occurred that is visible to the public.

“We’re actually doing a lot internally, but change is slow and it doesn’t show externally, so it really appears like we are moving at a snail’s pace,” he said.

Capiraso said he and the leadership of New York Road Runners had taken the complaints and concerns that current and former employees had raised “very seriously.”

“I understand what the board is saying, that they are making a decision after having listened to people,” Capiraso said in an interview. 

Capiraso began working with New York Road Runners in 2012. During his five-year tenure as chief executive, revenues at the organization increased to more than $100 million, from roughly $70 million, with the help of new media and sponsorship deals and increased participation in high-profile large races like the marathon, which now registers some 50,000 participants, and two half marathons run by the Road Runners that have some 25,000 participants each.

Like all sports organizations, New York Road Runners has been tested financially by the pandemic, which forced the cancellation of the New York City Half Marathon, the Brooklyn Half Marathon and the New York City Marathon. The resulting losses led the organization to lay off or furlough 40 percent of its staff of 229 this year.

In the wake of Capiraso’s dismissal, several current and former employees went public with complaints about the organization’s management.

Frances Alvarado, 26, who is now a teacher, worked at N.Y.R.R. for nearly two years. She said she left in 2019 after she was called an “educated Puerto Rican woman” on multiple occasions, mocked for speaking Spanish, and told to take pictures of people of color for use on the organization’s social media accounts.

“Hopefully they fill that position with someone who reflects the interests of the team and who cares about health and the running community more than the appearance of the company or N.Y.R.R. as a product,” she said.

Janet Cupo, 65, worked for 30 years registering people for races before leaving the Road Runners in 2015. She said Capiraso’s move to automate registration online, where credit cards are required, served to exclude low-income runners, some of whom were minorities. When she suggested a change in the policy, she said, her ideas were rejected.

Sam Dupuis, 29, who has worked with the organization for three years and coordinates running programs, was hopeful the leadership change would result in a more intense focus on including communities of color.

“Our achievements in recent years, while still wonderful in their own right, have not allowed us to be as connected to all of the communities in our area,” Dupuis said.





No.12 article:
Eric Hall, British Soccer Agent With a Flair, Dies at 73

After promoting bands like Queen and the Sex Pistols, Mr. Hall became one of the most colorful agents in England’s Premier League. He died of the coronavirus.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

LONDON — Eric Hall, Britain’s most colorful soccer agent in the 1980s and ’90s, often confessed that he knew little about the sport.

Many said that that was his greatest strength, even if it led to the occasional mishap: He once negotiated a bonus for a player on the condition that he scored 10 goals, only to learn afterward that the player was a goalkeeper.

Mr. Hall would watch British soap operas on Saturdays while games were aired, but would still write down how many goals his players had scored. It was part of a strategy that propelled his role in the explosion of large-sum transfers in the early years of the Premier League, England’s top-tier competition.

Mr. Hall died on Nov. 16 in London. Michael Hall McPherson, his nephew, who is also an agent, said the cause was the coronavirus.

Known for his catchphrase, “Monster, monster,” his love of cigars and his dazzling outfits, Mr. Hall honed his negotiating skills in the music industry by promoting the likes of Queen and the Sex Pistols. He applied similar methods in the rapidly changing world of British soccer.

“He took showbiz into football and looked at players as stars, which they weren’t really yet in the mid- and late-1980s,” Mr. Hall McPherson said. “And in the negotiation room, he was a lion.”

Eric Hall was born on Nov. 11, 1947, in East London. He quit school as a teenager and went to work at a store on London’s Denmark Street, known for its recording studios and music shops. There he befriended, and packed parcels with, Reg Dwight, who would go on to music fame as Elton John.

Mr. Hall later worked as a publicist for the British record label EMI, promoting rock bands like T. Rex and Queen. In 1976, he arranged a television appearance for the Sex Pistols that gained lasting notoriety when the band’s guitarist used an expletive against the show’s host.

The agent long claimed that the Queen frontman Freddie Mercury had written the song “Killer Queen” about him, even though Mr. Mercury had said that the tune was about a call girl. “The truth is, I’ve been telling that story for so long that I’m not really sure myself, but Freddie would’ve loved it either way,” Mr. Hall McPherson recalled his uncle saying.

Mr. Hall had always been attracted to showbiz, his nephew said. “He became famous from creating celebrities, but he preferred to be the celebrity himself,” he said.

Mr. Hall left the music industry in the mid-1980s and for more than a decade represented dozens of soccer professionals, including the Chelsea midfielder Dennis Wise; Neil Ruddock, who played for Tottenham and Liverpool; and Terry Venables, who managed England’s national team.

Mr. Hall negotiated large salary increases for players and helped pioneer appearance fees, branding rights and other commercial bonuses for players.

In 1997, he fell into a coma for three months and was given a diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, a rare blood disease. His roster of players dwindled, and a new generation of influential agents like Jorge Mendes and Mino Raiola rose to prominence.

Mr. Hall never really recovered in the soccer world. But he remained a fixture of Britain’s entertainment scene. Since 2013 he had hosted a weekly show on an independent radio station in East London.

Mr. Hall’s survivors include a brother and a sister in addition to Mr. Hall McPherson.

“He lived for showbiz,” his nephew said. “And his life was a bit of a show.”





No.13 article:
Alexander Vedernikov, Conductor and Bolshoi Veteran, Dies at 56

A kinetic podium presence, he led performances at major opera houses and orchestras. He died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

The appointment in 2001 of the Russian conductor Alexander Vedernikov, then 37, as music director of the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow drew international attention.

The legendary opera and ballet company had been demoralized for years by infighting, bureaucratic upheavals, hostile reviews and a decrepit main building. The conductor Gennady Rozhdestvensky, the Bolshoi’s artistic director, had just quit in fury over his treatment.

Mr. Vedernikov promised to shake the institution out of its torpor and introduce an ambitious “advertising, rebranding and public relations” program to attract younger audiences and drag the Bolshoi into the 21st century, according to an article in The Guardian headlined “Quiet Young Conductor Tries to Tame the Bolshoi Snakepit.”

Eight years later, it was Mr. Vedernikov who had had enough. Complaining that the theater “was putting bureaucratic interests before artistic ones,” as he told The New York Times, he resigned on the opening day of the Bolshoi’s summer 2009 tour of Italy.

Despite the tumult at the Bolshoi, Mr. Vedernikov went on to enjoy a thriving international career. He died of complications of Covid-19 on Oct. 29 in Moscow, his management, IMG Artists, said. He was 56.

Mr. Vedernikov was widely credited with stabilizing artistic standards at the Bolshoi, enhancing the orchestra’s profile as a concert ensemble and broadening its repertory. He helped activate long-delayed plans for a reconstruction of the theater, though at the time of his departure the project was beset with delays, cost overruns and budget cuts. It was not completed until 2011.

Mr. Vedernikov regularly conducted leading orchestras, including the BBC Symphony and the City of Birmingham orchestras, the Netherlands Radio and Helsinki philharmonics, and the NHK Symphony in Tokyo. He led performances at opera houses in Milan, Venice, Berlin, London and elsewhere, including New York, for a run in 2013 of Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin” at the Metropolitan Opera.

He had an especially close association with Denmark, having been chief conductor of the Odense Symphony Orchestra from 2008 through 2018. He then became chief conductor of the innovative Royal Danish Opera in Copenhagen. He had been scheduled to conduct the Royal Danish orchestra in Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony on Oct. 30. The performance, which went forward, was dedicated to his memory.

Alexander Alexandrovich Vedernikov was born in Moscow on Jan. 11, 1964. His father, also named Alexander, was a noted operatic bass. His mother, Natalia Gureyeva, who survives him, is a professor of organ at the Moscow Conservatory. Other survivors include his wife, Elena; a daughter, Natalia, from an earlier marriage; and a brother, Boris.

Mr. Vedernikov completed his studies at the Moscow Conservatory in 1990 and five years later founded the Russian Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra. He remained its leader until 2004.

Along the way he acquired a reputation for fast tempos, forceful fortissimos and a kinetic conducting style. One critic said he had “supplied his own wild-man choreography on the podium” in a performance of Stravinsky’s “The Rite of Spring.” Yet he could also bring breadth, richness and subtlety to his music-making. 

Mr. Vedernikov was the conductor in 1992 when, at 15, Jennifer Koh played Tchaikovsky’s Violin Concerto during the final round of the International Tchaikovsky Competition for Young Musicians in Moscow. (Two years later she shared the top award in the main competition.)

“I hadn’t really played it with any conductor until Sasha,” she recalled. “He sat quietly in a corner, intensely listening as I started to play, and his eyes lit up.” From that moment, she said, Mr. Vedernikov had “that ability to really hear how I played and give me the space to be myself.”

“He once told me the sweetest thing,” Ms. Koh added: “All musicians must always help each other.”





No.14 article:
Cuomo Fears ‘Nightmare of Overwhelmed Hospitals’ as Virus Cases Spike

New York will implement an assortment of new emergency measures as the state shifts its focus to a sharp rise in coronavirus-related hospitalizations.

Warning that New York had entered a “new phase in the war against Covid,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Monday that the state will implement a barrage of new emergency actions, some of which echo the strict measures taken this spring, to stem a rising tide of infections and deaths.

Mr. Cuomo said that the strength of the virus’s second wave has forced the state to rely less on test positivity rates as the determinant for restrictions, and focus more on hospital capacity. On Monday, the governor announced that hospitalizations topped 3,500 over the weekend, a level not seen since May.

The governor said if hospitals become overwhelmed, he could impose a regionally based shutdown, or “pause” order, as he did statewide in the spring. He also asked hospitals to begin identifying retired doctors and nurses to help staff medical facilities, where he said burnout was an increasingly common problem.

The governor said he wanted to prevent the conditions that led to Elmhurst Hospital in Queens being inundated by coronavirus patients this spring, with beds filled, doctors overworked and refrigerated trucks posted outside to hold the dead.

“We are not going to live through the nightmare of overwhelmed hospitals again,” Mr. Cuomo said during a briefing in Manhattan.

Mr. Cuomo said that he would ask hospitals to increase the number of beds by 50 percent, and hospital chains to evaluate where there was capacity inside of those systems, to help redistribute patients where there was availability.

Plans for field hospitals were being dusted off, the governor said, adding that capacity would also be evaluated between hospitals in different parts of the state, an idea known as “surge-and-flex,” another measure the governor implemented in the spring.

Similarly, Mr. Cuomo also announced that he was ordering hospitals to stop elective surgery in Erie County, in Western New York, which is currently enduring the highest weekly positive test rates in the state. The county led the state in number of deaths reported on Monday.

Despite rising rates of infection, Mr. Cuomo has resisted implementing the kind of widespread shutdowns seen in March, when hundreds of New Yorkers began to die every week, and much of New York’s economic activity ground to a complete halt. 

Rather, Mr. Cuomo’s strategy has been to utilize targeted restrictions on individual areas — known as his “micro-cluster initiative” — which has now expanded to nearly 30 locations around the state, including in all five boroughs of New York City, its suburban counties, and major upstate population centers.

The announcement on Monday came after weeks of steadily more worrying news in New York. The state’s daily rate of positive tests on Sunday topped 4 percent for the first time since May, and the number of more serious cases continued to grow. The positivity rate was reported to be 4.57 percent on Monday.

The death toll has also started to rise again: On Monday, the governor said  54 deaths were reported by the state. All told, almost 1,000 people died in New York this month, according to The New York Times’s tally, making November the deadliest month since June. The state has suffered more than 34,000 deaths since the discovery of the first case in March 1, the most of any state.

In his remarks on Monday, Mr. Cuomo noted that the current surge of cases has been more widespread than in the spring, when cases and deaths were largely concentrated in New York City and its suburbs.

He recalled how some upstate regions sent reinforcements and resources to downstate medical facilities in the spring, and suggested that would be difficult now. “Every region is dealing with a hospital issue,” he said.

Mr. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, has been touting the state’s response to the crisis for months, releasing a book in October about “leadership lessons” drawn from his experiences. The governor has also repeatedly made a point of saying that New York is doing well in comparison with other states.

On Sunday, however, the governor seemed to modify his thinking on that point somewhat, saying, while “it’s nice that we’re doing better in a national context,” it is also “irrelevant.”

“Because we have to deal with the issues that we have here in New York relative to New York, right?” Mr. Cuomo said.

Mr. Cuomo praised efforts by Mayor Bill de Blasio, who appeared at the news conference via Zoom, to reopen elementary schools, while voicing broader support for plans to keep students in kindergarten through eighth grade in classrooms.

The city will no longer use a 3 percent test positivity threshold that it had adopted for closing the school system; instead, the city will increase testing in schools and close those that have multiple confirmed virus cases.

And with the state’s daily positivity rate now above 4 percent, Mr. Cuomo — seemingly aware of how relying solely on rising infection rates could lead to economically detrimental shutdowns — had been indicating that a statewide shift in strategy was coming.

On Monday, the governor said new metrics — including hospitalization rates, death and case rates, and available hospital beds — would be used to determine lockdown levels under the “micro-cluster” strategy, the state’s color-coded restriction system. Mr. Cuomo said those new numbers will be set this week, after the state evaluates the effects of people congregating during last week’s Thanksgiving holiday.

“I don’t believe we’ve seen the hit from Thanksgiving,” he said, adding that he believed the increase in cases “will be dramatic.”

It’s still unclear how the governor will reconcile positivity rates and hospital metrics to determine new restrictions, but state officials said homing in on hospitalizations was a useful way to determine the severity of the disease in any given location. There are areas in the state where the number of people testing positive has increased, for example, but hospitalizations have not, lessening the urgency for new restrictions there, officials said.

With Mr. Cuomo ordering the redistribution of patients across hospitals, the state plans to track hospitalizations by a patient’s home address, not only where the person is hospitalized, to better ascertain which parts of the state are driving hospital admissions.

Officials said that the governor’s renewed focus on hospital capacity, harkening back to the grim projections of overrun hospitals in the spring, is a deliberate tactic to underscore the severity of the situation and prompt citizens to behave responsibly.

Indeed, Mr. Cuomo predicted that the rates of infection would continue to rise through December and into January, while still expressing confidence that the state could withstand the second wave.

State officials believe a majority of new cases in the state stem from small gatherings in homes, with people increasingly congregating indoors as temperatures drop, rather than in public settings like bars and restaurants. Changing that behavior, the governor said, would require a robust public messaging campaign similar to the one employed around mask wearing.

“It is all in our control,” Mr. Cuomo said.





No.15 article:
Accepting the Danger of Human Rights Work in Egypt, With Food and Humor

Before his recent arrest, Gasser Abdel-Razek had no illusions about the risks in being a leading rights advocate under the increasingly repressive el-Sisi regime.

CAIRO — On bad days — and, in recent years, there seemed to be more bad days than ever — Gasser Abdel-Razek, captain, counselor and friend to nearly everyone in Egypt’s shrinking human rights community, tended to counter the tension and stress with food.

So it was, in August 2014, during the worst of Cairo’s blazing summer, that Mr. Abdel-Razek showed up to visit a friend in prison bearing a grin and an ice cream cake. An act of foolishness, maybe — or, as he often called his approach to advocacy under hostile conditions, “strategic denial.”

“If we think about the threats, if we try to assess what will get us in trouble and what won’t, then it would be impossible to work,” Mr. Abdel-Razek, the executive director of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said in a recent interview. “We stay focused on our work, and we tell ourselves, whatever happens, we’ll have to deal with it.”

But in the last few weeks, denial became impossible. First, his group’s office manager, Mohamed Basheer, was arrested, followed by the Initiative’s criminal justice program director, Karim Ennarah, and finally, on Thursday night, Mr. Abdel-Razek. Questioned about a meeting their organization held with Western diplomats on Nov. 3, all three were charged with working for a terrorist organization and spreading false information.

The arrests seemed designed to snap one of the few pillars of opposition left standing in Egypt, where President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has jailed thousands of activists, politicians, lawyers, journalists and protesters since taking power in 2014. The government has banned many human rights leaders from traveling, frozen their assets and hamstrung their work. Until last week, however, most had avoided prison.

Political analysts, activists and Western diplomats interpreted the arrests as a signal to President-elect Joseph R. Biden, Jr., who has been more vocal than President Trump on human rights in Egypt. Mr. Trump once saluted Mr. el-Sisi as his “favorite dictator.”

Like a retailer that hikes its prices before dangling 20 percent off, Mr. el-Sisi may be cracking down in hopes of padding his bargaining position. “And then you’ll climb back down from this in six months, and the Biden administration will be very happy,” said Heba Morayef, Amnesty International’s Middle East and North Africa director, “and then you’re right back where you started.”

The arrests were a thunderbolt, but they could not be called a surprise, certainly not to Mr. Abdel-Razek. Schooled in the brutal vagaries of Egyptian authoritarianism all his life — as a child, he watched his parents, both prominent leftists, be dragged away to prison in raids on their home — Mr. Abdel-Razek, 52, never nurtured a false sense of security. He simply seemed to shoulder risk more lightly than most.

Though rarely in the spotlight, Mr. Abdel-Razek was the one whom others turned to when in trouble. His jokes unerringly punctured moments of tension. Calm and pragmatic after setbacks, including the arrest of an Initiative researcher in February, he would set about calling government contacts and mobilizing resources.

But first, there was always breakfast.

If he found a staffer frazzled after a bout with the courts, Mr. Abdel-Razek made her an omelet as she vented. If he and other advocates were split on strategy, he invited everyone over to resolve their differences over his fava bean breakfast stew, homemade ceviche or steaks served with sauces inspired by hours of testing and cooking shows.

If a comrade was arrested, as happened increasingly often: eggs, ful stew, hot bread. Occasionally, only a jumbo bucket of KFC would do.

Mr. Abdel-Razek studied accounting, but politics was his parents’ world and eventually became his. Beginning his human rights career under President Hosni Mubarak, Mr. Abdel-Razek helped pioneer the use of litigation to overturn oppressive laws and expand legal recognition of rights for workers, women and religious and sexual minorities.

During the heady days of the 2011 Arab Spring revolt that toppled Mr. Mubarak, Mr. Abdel-Razek clung to the vision of a free and tolerant Egypt. “Even though we probably won’t live through another 2011 in our lifetime, you’ve seen the power of human rights work and you’ve seen what you can do with it,” Ms. Morayef said.

In 2013, some Egyptian liberals made common cause with Mr. el-Sisi, then the leader of the military, in the name of overthrowing Egypt’s first freely elected president, Mohamed Morsi, an Islamist.

Not Mr. Abdel-Razek. But, pairing pragmatism with idealism, he learned to work under the new regime, shouting for rights at some times, keeping quiet at others.

“Although we feel defeated now, we cannot deny there have been gains from the revolution,” Mr. Abdel-Razek told Mada Masr, one of Egypt’s very few remaining independent news outlet, in 2015. “Something broke ideologically in January 2011 that cannot be reversed, despite attempts by the state to do so.”

The interview was published the year the government began obliterating any remaining spaces for dissent. Arrests accelerated, while obstacles to human rights groups’ legal status accumulated. Many of Mr. Abdel-Razek’s friends and colleagues left the country. He stayed.

“He was telling me, ‘Maybe we’re doing the work for later on,’” said his wife, Mariam Korachy, who said she often wished the Initiative would close because of the danger. “He said, ‘I’ll wait until they come and close the office.’”

Every year, survival seemed harder, as Mr. el-Sisi tightened his grip on power — and on dissent. After eliminating any serious opposition, the president won re-election in 2018, and a constitutional referendum in 2019 extended his rule. He has continued arresting critics, whether major (well-known activists and politicians), minor (a satirist) or even underage (preteen protesters).

“For many of us, we have more friends inside prison than outside, and it was hard to be hopeful,” said Hossam Bahgat, a prominent investigative journalist who founded the Initiative before passing the reins to Mr. Abdel-Razek in 2015. “Even for someone like Gasser, who was ridiculously optimistic and often ridiculed by his friends for remaining optimistic.”

Without an independent judiciary, an empowered parliament, a free press or the ability to organize protests, Mr. Bahgat said, activists were reduced to advocacy on the smallest scale: representing detainees and documenting violations.

Mr. Abdel-Razek believed such incremental work still mattered, friends say, but it was a steep comedown.

Over the last year, he began to contemplate moving on. There was more to his life than politics: He loved desert camping with his young sons; he talked about opening a restaurant. He felt he had done what he could in human rights, he told friends, and maybe it was time for new blood.

The organization’s board had begun looking for a new director when the police started arresting its staff. State-owned media outlets spent days smearing the organization, accusing it of treason.

Mr. Abdel-Razek knew he would be next. In a way, he hoped he would be.

“He didn’t want them to arrest all of his staff and leave him free,” Ms. Korachy said.

He was arrested at home in Maadi, a prosperous Cairo suburb, on the evening of Nov. 19.

After being held incommunicado for several days, he told his lawyers he had been in solitary confinement, not allowed out of his cell even for exercise, and that the cash they had given him to purchase food from the prison canteen had been confiscated, said Ragia Omran, one of Mr. Abdel-Razek’s lawyers and friends.

He had been provided only light clothes, despite the nighttime cold, and no mattress for his metal bed, she said.

Leaving the prosecutor’s office after an interrogation, Mr. Abdel-Razek shouted through the barred window of a police van to his wife: “Mariam! Say hello to the boys. I love you.”

His curly hair had been shaved, but he had, his lawyers said, a smile on his face.





No.16 article:
Supreme Court Skeptical of Trump’s Plan to Not Count Unauthorized Immigrants in Redistricting

The administration’s efforts, which are subject to practical hurdles, would upset a constitutional consensus and could shift political power from Democratic states to Republican ones.

WASHINGTON — A skeptical Supreme Court on Monday reacted with frustration and some confusion to President Trump’s plan to exclude unauthorized immigrants from the calculations used to allocate seats in the House.

While there was some discussion about whether the plan was lawful, the more immediate questions for the justices were where the administration stood in its efforts to identify and count the unauthorized immigrants and what role the court should play if substantial numbers were not identified.

Removing undocumented immigrants from the census would most likely have the effect of shifting congressional seats and federal money to states that are older, whiter and typically more Republican.

But if the Census Bureau cannot provide Mr. Trump with specific information about a large enough number of unauthorized immigrants in the coming weeks, he will not be able to exclude enough of them from the reapportionment to change the way House seats are allocated. That would leave the justices without a concrete dispute to decide.

“The situation is fairly fluid,” Jeffrey B. Wall, the acting United States solicitor general, told the justices, conceding that the Census Bureau may not be able to supply Mr. Trump with much data on unauthorized immigrants. “There is a real prospect that the numbers will not affect the apportionment,” he said.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said that put the court in an odd position.

“I find the posture of this case quite frustrating,” he said. “It could be that this is much ado about very little.”

The Commerce Department is required to supply census information to the president by the end of the year, but it may not be able to meet that deadline. Mr. Wall indicated that the Census Bureau had good data on the tens of thousands of people held by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but the number is almost certainly too small to change apportionment.

He was less certain that the bureau could match records concerning people subject to orders of removal, young immigrants known as Dreamers or other categories of unauthorized immigrants.

If there is data to allow Mr. Trump to exclude enough immigrants to change the allocation of House seats, the case would become quite important.

Indeed, if the court rules for the administration on the core question in the case, it would upend a longtime consensus that the government must count all residents of the United States, whatever their immigration status, with the potential to shift political power and federal money from Democratic states to Republican ones.

But there was only limited discussion of that question on Monday, though several justices, including some conservatives, expressed skepticism about the administration’s arguments.

“A lot of the historical evidence and longstanding practice really cuts against your position,” Justice Amy Coney Barrett told Mr. Wall.

He responded that the novelty of Mr. Trump’s approach did not make it unlawful. “I’ll certainly grant,” Mr. Wall said, “that no president has made this judgment before.”

Most of the argument focused on the practical complications in the case. 

Mr. Wall said the process was cumbersome and difficult. “We’re literally trying to individually identify people who are present in the United States in violation of federal law,” he said.

Mr. Wall suggested that the plaintiffs could file a new lawsuit after Mr. Trump submits a statement to Congress setting out the number of representatives to which each state is entitled if House seats shift because of the exclusion of unauthorized immigrants.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. was skeptical. “Isn’t that going to be like having to unscramble the eggs?” he asked.

Other justices wondered whether the court should simply defer a decision in the current case, which it had put on an exceptionally fast track, until more information becomes available in the coming weeks.

The Constitution requires congressional districts to be apportioned “counting the whole number of persons in each state,” using information from the census. In July, Mr. Trump issued a memorandum taking a new approach. “For the purpose of the reapportionment of representatives following the 2020 census,” the memo said, “it is the policy of the United States to exclude from the apportionment base aliens who are not in a lawful immigration status.”

“Current estimates suggest that one state is home to more than 2.2 million illegal aliens, constituting more than 6 percent of the state’s entire population,” the memo said, apparently referring to California. “Including these illegal aliens in the population of the state for the purpose of apportionment could result in the allocation of two or three more congressional seats than would otherwise be allocated.”

In the memo, Mr. Trump ordered Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, to provide him with two sets of numbers, one including unauthorized immigrants and the other not. But it became unclear how Mr. Ross would derive the second set of numbers after the Supreme Court last year rejected his efforts to add a question on citizenship to the census.

The case before the court, Trump v. New York, No. 20-366, was brought by two sets of plaintiffs, one a group of state and local governments and the United States Conference of Mayors, and the second a coalition of advocacy groups and other nongovernmental organizations.

A three-judge panel of the Federal District Court in Manhattan ruled that the new policy violated federal law. Two other courts have issued similar rulings, while one said the dispute was not ripe for consideration.

In an unsigned opinion in the case from Manhattan, the panel said the question before it was “not particularly close or complicated.”

“The secretary is required to report a single set of figures to the president — namely, ‘the tabulation of total population by states’ under the ‘decennial census’ — and the president is then required to use those same figures to determine apportionment using the method of equal proportions,” the panel wrote, quoting the relevant statutes.

Chief Justice Roberts questioned the first part of the analysis. “It seems to me that you’re asking really for a gag order on the secretary of commerce concerning his communications to the president,” he told Barbara D. Underwood, New York’s solicitor general.

Ms. Underwood said the secretary was free to provide information about unauthorized immigrants in other ways. “It might be usable for many other things,” she said, “but not as part of the apportionment.”

Mr. Wall told the justices that it was lawful to exclude unauthorized immigrants. “It’s the sovereign’s prerogative to define the political community,” he said.

Ms. Underwood responded that the administration was asking the court to endorse a stunning departure from the nation’s traditions.

“The Constitution and laws provide that House seats should be allocated on the basis of total population,” she said. “The framers wanted a system that could not easily be manipulated. So they decided to count just the persons living in each state. The policy here would for the first time in this nation’s history reject that choice.”

Dale Ho, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, said Mr. Trump’s authority was limited.

“While the president may have some discretion in borderline cases,” Mr. Ho said, “he does not have authority to erase millions of state residents from the apportionment based solely on unlawful immigration status.”

The argument was conducted by telephone, with the justices asking questions one at a time, in order of seniority, subject to strict time limits enforced by the chief justice. At one point, Justice Alito seemed to chafe at that restriction, launching into a six-part question after the chief justice had indicated that his time was up.

He managed to ask three of his six questions before Chief Justice Roberts cut him off.





No.17 article:
Biden’s Economic Team Suggests Focus on Workers and Income Equality

In the White House and elsewhere, the president-elect’s selections are heavy on labor economists and champions of organized labor.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. formally announced his top economic advisers on Monday, choosing a team that is stocked with champions of organized labor and marginalized workers, signaling an early focus on efforts to speed and spread the gains of the recovery from the pandemic recession.

The selections build on a pledge Mr. Biden made to business groups two weeks ago, when he said labor unions would have “increased power” in his administration. They suggest that Mr. Biden’s team will be focused initially on increased federal spending to reduce unemployment and an expanded safety net to cushion households that have continued to suffer as the coronavirus persists and the recovery slows.

In a sign that Mr. Biden plans to focus on spreading economic wealth, his transition team put issues of equality and worker empowerment at the forefront of its news release announcing the nominees, saying they would help create “an economy that gives every single person across America a fair shot and an equal chance to get ahead.”

Mr. Biden’s picks include Janet L. Yellen, the former Federal Reserve chair, as Treasury secretary; Cecilia Rouse of Princeton University, to head the White House Council of Economic Advisers; and Neera Tanden of the Center for American Progress think tank, to run the Office of Management and Budget. All three have focused on efforts to increase worker earnings and reduce racial and gender discrimination in the economy.

Ms. Tanden said in February that rising income inequality was the consequence of “decades of conservative attacks on workers’ right to organize” and that labor unions “are a powerful vehicle to move workers into the middle class and keep them there.”

The two other nominees to Mr. Biden’s Council of Economic Advisers, Jared Bernstein and Heather Boushey, are economists who have pushed for policies to advance workers and labor rights, and who advised Mr. Biden in his campaign as he built an agenda that featured several longstanding goals of organized labor, like raising the federal minimum wage and strengthening “Buy America” requirements in federal contracting.

Ms. Boushey has also been a vocal advocate of policies to help working families, including providing up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave. In an interview last week, Ms. Boushey said such a policy was especially critical during the pandemic, “when lives are at stake.”

William E. Spriggs, the chief economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. labor union, hailed the selections, saying in an email on Monday that “we have not had a C.E.A. as focused on the role of fiscal policy and full employment since President Johnson.”

The team has embraced increased federal spending to help households and businesses during the pandemic, a position that was highlighted in an op-ed article that Ms. Tanden and Ms. Boushey wrote with two co-authors in March, urging policymakers to spend big even though it would require borrowing large sums of money.

“Given the magnitude of the crisis,” they wrote, “now is not the time for policymakers to worry about raising deficits and debt as they consider what steps to take.”

Mr. Biden also named Adewale Adeyemo, a senior international economic adviser in the Obama administration, as deputy Treasury secretary.

The nominees, who require Senate confirmation, will be introduced on Tuesday. Another of Mr. Biden’s picks, the former Obama adviser Brian Deese, has been tapped to lead the National Economic Council but was not included in Monday’s announcement.

Mr. Biden’s team includes several labor economists, including Ms. Yellen, who has been a longtime champion of workers and has at times suggested allowing the unemployment rate to run low for a longer period of time without worrying about inflation — an idea some economists thought imprudent but which has since become more widely accepted. While at the Fed, she balanced her preference for a strong labor market with inflation concerns and political constraints.

In the early 2000s, Ms. Yellen was instrumental in persuading the Fed’s policy-setting committee to coalesce around targeting a 2 percent inflation rate instead of the zero inflation rate that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chair at the time, originally favored. The Fed raises rates to slow the economy and offset inflationary pressures, so targeting slightly higher inflation opened the door to longer periods of cheap borrowing that can lead to stronger economic demand and lower unemployment.

As Fed chair from 2014 to 2018, Ms. Yellen favored a patient approach to policy-setting that weighed concerns that prices might heat up as joblessness dropped against a preference for pulling more workers into the labor market.

In one wonky 2016 speech, she suggested that allowing the labor market to expand without raising interest rates might help to reverse damage by pulling people in from the sidelines and prompting others to look for better jobs. She was criticized for the remarks, and later backed away from such an approach in word if not in deed. She and her colleagues lifted interest rates to fend off inflation pressures, but did so at a very slow pace, prompting criticism. Those rate increases have since been viewed as too aggressive and faulted for prematurely snuffing out a more robust labor market expansion.

Ms. Yellen also walked a careful line when it came to issues like inequality. In one 2014 speech, she suggested that widening income and wealth inequality might be incompatible with American values — “among them the high value Americans have traditionally placed on equality of opportunity” — a remark Republicans criticized.

Much has changed since Ms. Yellen was at the Fed — in ways that could allow her to embrace some of her more labor-friendly instincts if she is confirmed to the Treasury. While the Treasury secretary’s direct economic power is somewhat limited, the position holds significant sway as a fiscal policy adviser to Congress and the president, as well as oversight of tax policy through the Internal Revenue Service.

Inflation, once seen as a real and looming threat, has been low for more than a decade. Inequality, once labeled a political and liberal issue, is increasingly recognized as a real economic constraint by Democrats and Republicans alike.

Yet some progressive groups have raised concerns that Mr. Biden’s team could pivot too quickly to try to reduce the federal budget deficit once the pandemic subsides, citing past comments by Ms. Yellen and Ms. Tanden.

Economists on the left have become increasingly comfortable with deficit spending, and Ms. Yellen has long favored government intervention as a way to get the economy going during times of trouble. But she has also said America’s debt load is unsustainable, and has generally favored taxation as an offset to increased spending.

Mr. Biden, too, has expressed support for borrowing money to aid the current recovery, but sought to offset the cost of other economic proposals — like an infrastructure bill and actions to mitigate climate change — with tax increases on high earners and corporations.

In a 2018 interview at the Charles Schwab Impact conference in Washington, Ms. Yellen said the U.S. debt path was “unsustainable” and offered a remedy: “If I had a magic wand, I would raise taxes and cut retirement spending.” Last year, she described the need to overhaul the nation’s social safety net programs as “root canal economics.”

But Ms. Yellen has made clear that she does not see deficit reduction as a priority during the current crisis and that the federal government should spend what is necessary to weather the pandemic. In July, she testified before Congress with Ben S. Bernanke, another former Fed chair, and called for substantial federal support.

“With interest rates extremely low and likely to remain so for some time, we do not believe that concerns about the deficit and debt should prevent the Congress from responding robustly to this emergency,” she said. “The top priorities at this time should be protecting our citizens from the pandemic and pursuing a stronger and equitable economic recovery.”

Many Republicans, however, have once again begun warning about the deficit and citing mounting debt levels as a reason to avoid another large virus spending package.

Bridging those concerns will fall to both Ms. Yellen and Ms. Tanden, whose role as the White House budget director will put her in the center of fiscal fights with Congress.

Some liberal groups have raised concerns over Ms. Tanden’s 2012 remarks to C-SPAN about potential cuts to safety-net programs as part of a long-term deal to reduce federal debt.

In that interview with the network, Ms. Tanden said that the restructuring of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid must be “on the table” in conversations about long-term deficit reduction and noted that the Center for American Progress had made such proposals.

But in 2017, as Republicans prepared to approve a $1.5 trillion tax cut, Ms. Tanden showed no desire to return to deficit reduction in a future administration. “The rule seems to be deficits only matter for Democratic presidents,” she wrote on Twitter. “And that rule needs to die now. We should not have to clean up their mess.”

Liberal senators, including Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, cheered the selections of Mr. Biden’s team, including Ms. Yellen and Ms. Tanden. Mr. Brown said on Twitter that Ms. Tanden was “smart, experienced, and qualified” and demanded that Senate Republicans confirm Mr. Biden’s team.

Republicans did not unite in opposition, though when asked about Ms. Yellen, Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, criticized her as being a “good example of the corporate liberals.”

“She’s somebody who clearly has done the bidding of the big multinational corporations,” he said. “Her record on trade is astoundingly terrible.”

Liberal economists welcomed the picks. “There are reasons to be hopeful,” said Stephanie Kelton, a professor at Stony Brook University and the author of the book “The Deficit Myth,” which makes a case that budget deficits are not inherently bad.

Ms. Kelton helped with economic agenda-setting during the Biden campaign as a task force member, and said the fact that people like Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Boushey were included among the economic thinkers was a reason to hope that progressive ideals would have a voice at the table. That said, Ms. Kelton said she remained wary that there would be continued attention to deficits and deficit reduction.





No.18 article:
Bitcoin Hits New Record, This Time With Less Talk of a Bubble

The crazy cousin of traditional currencies, which fell below $4,000 in March, passed $19,783. More investors now are buying it for the long term.

Bitcoin is back. Again.

Nearly three years after it went on a hair-bending rise and hit a peak of $19,783, the price of a single Bitcoin rose above that for the first time on Monday, according to the data and news provider CoinDesk. The cryptocurrency has soared since March, after sinking below $4,000 at the outset of the coronavirus pandemic.

Bitcoin’s latest climb is different from its last spike in 2017, which was driven largely by investors in Asia who had just learned about cryptocurrencies. Back then, the digital token soon lost momentum as people questioned what it could do other than allow for easy online speculating and drug and ransom payments.

While those questions remain, Bitcoin is now being fueled by a less speculative fever. Buyers — led by American investors, including companies and other traditional investors — are treating Bitcoin as an alternative asset, somewhat like gold, according to an analysis from the data firm Chainalysis. Rather than quickly trading in and out of it, more investors are using Bitcoin as a place to park part of their investment portfolios outside the influence of governments and the traditional financial system, Chainalysis and other industry firms said.

“It’s a very different set of people who are buying Bitcoin recently,” said Philip Gradwell, the chief economist at Chainalysis, which analyzes the movement of cryptocurrencies. “They are doing it in steadier amounts over sustained periods of time, and they are taking it off exchanges and holding it as an investment.”

The excitement has been underpinned by regulators and mainstream financial companies that are trying to make cryptocurrencies safer and more accessible. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, an American regulator, said this summer that banks would be allowed to hold cryptocurrencies for customers. And PayPal announced in October that it would follow its rival Square and allow people to buy and hold Bitcoin and a few other cryptocurrencies.

“Our move came as a result of conversations with government officials, and then seeing the dramatic shift into digital payments as a result of the pandemic,” Dan Schulman, the chief executive of PayPal, said in an interview. More than a million people — three to four times what the company expected — joined a wait list to use cryptocurrencies before the feature was started, he said.

Bitcoin’s rise is part of a broader exuberance in cryptocurrencies and stock markets, which are defying the gloom of a pandemic-induced recession. The Dow, S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq have hit record highs this past month, with Wall Street buoyed by the presidential election and the news of potential coronavirus vaccines.

Bitcoin is a digital currency with software and rules that were released in early 2009 by a shadowy creator with the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. The computer code established that the total supply of Bitcoin would be limited. Only 21 million tokens will ever be created, distributed in small blocks each day — through a process known as mining — to some of the computers that maintain the currency’s online infrastructure.

Like gold, Bitcoin can be created, moved and stored outside the purview of any government or financial institution. Bitcoins exist on a financial ledger, known as a blockchain, which is maintained and updated by a volunteer network of people running thousands of computers worldwide — a system meant to ensure that no one computer or institution can change the rules or control the network.

The open nature of the system — and the fact that anyone can join it and create a wallet without providing so much as a name or a phone number — has made it popular for those who want to circumvent the traditional financial system. They have included terrorists, drug dealers and countries, like North Korea, Venezuela and Iran, that want to evade American financial sanctions.

“This technology already plays a role in many of the most significant criminal and national security threats our nation faces,” the Department of Justice said in a report in October. The report described how deeply Bitcoin had been woven into the infrastructure of the criminal world.

But Bitcoin’s stateless nature has also won over investors interested in legitimate uses of the technology. Some have been motivated by a libertarian distrust of governments. Others who are less ideological have gravitated to Bitcoin as an alternative to the financial system.

Still, Bitcoin is not backed by anything other than its computer network and the faith of people who buy it and give it value on exchanges. Many of these people are betting that someone else will be willing to pay them more for their Bitcoin in the future.

That has made Bitcoin prices volatile. It fell to its most recent low in March when fear over the pandemic hit global markets. Soon after, though, investors began talking about Bitcoin as a beneficiary of the global downturn.

In May, Paul Tudor Jones, one of Wall Street’s best-known hedge fund managers, said he had put almost 2 percent of his portfolio in Bitcoin. He said the cap on Bitcoin production made it an attractive alternative to the declining value of traditional currencies, which he thought was inevitable as central banks printed more money to encourage an economic recovery.

“Every day that goes by that Bitcoin survives, the trust in it will go up,” Mr. Jones told CNBC at the time. He did not respond to a request for comment for this article.

Some public companies also dived into Bitcoin because of concerns about the value of the dollar. In August, MicroStrategy, a software company in Virginia, said it bought $250 million of Bitcoin to store some of the cash it had in the corporate treasury.

Michael Saylor, MicroStrategy’s chief executive, said in an interview that after knowing almost nothing about Bitcoin at the beginning of this year, he had become a believer in how the hard-coded limit on the number of tokens would help it hold its value over time. He became so enthusiastic that he put $175 million of his own money into the currency. MicroStrategy later bought another $175 million of Bitcoin.

“For anything that anybody invested in as a store of value, it starts to look like it is better to move that into Bitcoin,” Mr. Saylor said.

In October, Square said it was putting $50 million of its corporate cash into Bitcoin. In 2018, Square also began offering the digital currency on the Cash App, its phone app that people use to send money between friends and family. The company, which is led by Jack Dorsey, who is also chief executive of Twitter, said in early November that its customers held $1.8 billion of Bitcoin, up 180 percent from a year ago.

In October, analysts at JPMorgan Chase wrote a widely circulated note about how using Bitcoin as an alternative to gold — especially by younger investors — was creating a significant market for the tokens. Given that the total value of all outstanding Bitcoin, around $350 billion, was a small fraction of all the gold in the world, the analysts said they could see the value of Bitcoin going much higher.

Bitcoin’s rally has been accompanied by a broader bull market in cryptocurrencies, just as in 2017. While much of the fervor three years ago centered on new coins from scammy so-called initial coin offerings, interest has shifted to coins trying to take part in what is known as decentralized finance, or DeFi. These systems, which remain buggy and unproven, aim to make it possible to take out loans and insurance or collect interest without involving any financial institutions.

Central banks from countries such as Singapore, Sweden and the Bahamas are also looking at creating national digital currencies, inspired partly by Bitcoin. The biggest project, from China’s central bank, appears to be the furthest along.

The national coins, which would leave behind the volatility of Bitcoin, could make cryptocurrencies obsolete. But they could also make it easier to move in and out of digital currencies of all kinds.

Given the uncertainty around Bitcoin’s value, any excitement is likely to be followed by a another contraction. But the number of crashes Bitcoin has survived is changing the conversation around the technology.

“Now it’s LeBron James playing at age 21 and starting to dominate the court,” Mr. Saylor said. “It’s not LeBron James, age 13, throwing a temper tantrum. You’ve got a hardening and a maturing of the asset.”





No.19 article:
How to End a Forever War

The Biden administration should support a regional effort to stabilize Afghanistan.

For years, the stalemate in Afghanistan has left American officials torn between two bad options: Prop up a corrupt, hopelessly divided Afghan government indefinitely or admit defeat and go home, leaving the country to its fate. At 19 years and counting, the U.S.-led effort in Afghanistan is already the longest war in American history. A consensus has been forming that it is time for U.S. troops to come home. But the speed of the withdrawal and whether any residual force will be left behind to carry out counterterrorism operations remain open questions.

The Trump administration has taken laudable steps toward a U.S. exit. In February, it struck a deal with the Taliban to withdraw American forces from the country within 14 months. In exchange, the Taliban agreed to cut ties with Al Qaeda, prevent terrorists from using Afghanistan as a base for international attacks, help reduce violence and participate in talks with Afghanistan’s political leadership to try to end the conflict.

American diplomats have been pressing the Taliban to live up to their end of the bargain. Qaeda fighters are still believed to be embedded with the Taliban, although Al Qaeda’s leader, Ayman al-Zawahri, may now be dead, according to Pakistani media. Intra-Afghan peace talks began in Doha, the capital of Qatar, in September but have stalled over a fresh wave of attacks and uncertainty over whether the Biden administration will honor the deal with the Taliban. Over the weekend, the Taliban announced on social media that both sides had agreed to a set of guiding principles for the talks, but President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan has reportedly pushed back on that claim, denying that an agreement has been reached.

The two sides have yet to begin confronting a host of seemingly irreconcilable differences, including whether to be a theocracy or a republic, and the status of women and followers of the Shiite sect of Islam. The Taliban claim that they now accept Shiites as fellow Muslims. But previously Taliban leaders have justified persecuting them as infidels. In 1998, Taliban commanders massacred thousands of Hazaras, an ethnic minority that predominantly follows Shiite Islam, when they took power in their region. Today, two commanders of that bloody operation are among the Taliban negotiators in Doha. Some Hazaras fear the Taliban are simply going through the motions of peace talks until U.S. forces leave.

Efforts to hold the Taliban accountable for their commitments have been undercut by the Trump administration’s abrupt announcement that it will pull all but 2,500 American troops out of the country by Jan. 15, regardless of whether the conditions the Taliban agreed to have been met. President Trump, who spent Thanksgiving 2019 with U.S. soldiers at Bagram Airfield, wants to keep a promise to bring American soldiers home before he leaves office. But NATO’s secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, expressed alarm at Mr. Trump’s announcement and said the alliance would continue to train Afghan security forces even with the planned U.S. reductions. NATO has 12,000 personnel in the country, about half of whom are often American troops, and relies heavily on the U.S. military for transportation and logistics.

President-elect Joe Biden is unlikely to depart radically from the Trump administration’s exit plan. Mr. Biden opposed the Obama-era surge in Afghanistan and wrote in the spring in Foreign Affairs magazine that “it is past time to end the forever wars.”

But an American withdrawal does not have to mean ending financial support for the Afghan people or leaving the region in chaos. The United States has a moral obligation to work with regional partners to try to clean up the mess we are leaving behind.

Americans have the geopolitical luxury of flying away from a war they plunged into in 2001 in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Afghanistan’s neighbors do not. Six countries share a border with Afghanistan. Not one wants a failed state on its doorstep. Afghanistan has been at war almost continuously since 1978, partly because its powerful neighbors have all tried to manage the chaos inside it by funding proxies. A debilitating free-for-all might be prevented if Afghanistan’s neighbors work together to support a peace process.

This is a rare instance where Iran, Russia, China, Pakistan and the United States all share a common interest: the orderly departure of American troops and preventing Afghanistan from imploding.

Mr. Trump, who has a well-known allergy to multilateral cooperation and a zero-sum mentality toward Iran and China, has been unable to fully engage Afghanistan’s neighbors in the effort to stabilize the country. In March 2019, American diplomats threatened to veto the U.N. Security Council resolution renewing the mandate of the U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan because it referred to China’s Belt and Road Initiative. And the Trump administration’s “maximum pressure” campaign against Iran scared off international investors in Chabahar, an Iranian port considered essential for increasing trade in landlocked Afghanistan.

Barnett Rubin, a former State Department official who is now the director of the Afghanistan-Pakistan Regional Project at New York University, argues that the United States would benefit from having a strategic vision for the region that was bigger than “no Al Qaeda.”

“Stop looking at Afghanistan as either ‘war on terror’ or nothing and broaden the aperture to see that it is a country in a region with China, Russia, Iran, India and Pakistan — four nuclear powers,” he said. “They all have a very strong interest in trying to stabilize Afghanistan. Even though they want our troops out, they are worried we are doing it too quickly.”

The Biden administration is better positioned to test the limits of regional diplomacy. While it is far from clear that Afghan talks can negotiate a political settlement that will end the war between the Taliban and the Afghan government, a coordinated regional approach is more likely to produce success than a rapid unilateral American withdrawal. American soldiers should not be held hostage to a peace agreement that might never come. But with U.S. troops down to 2,500 soldiers, some portion of which is needed as a security umbrella for the embassy, the costs of the U.S. effort in Afghanistan have fallen sharply. The Biden administration has time to craft a more responsible withdrawal.





No.20 article:
As Virus Upends N.F.L. Schedule, Games Shift to Odd Landing Spots

The Ravens and Steelers will play on Wednesday afternoon and the 49ers announced the team will relocate to Arizona for two December games as the coronavirus surge derails pro football’s regular season.

After a weekend of question marks and patchwork solutions, the N.F.L. was forced to juggle its schedule yet again on Monday as it tries to finish the full regular season on time amid the coronavirus pandemic.

The league moved the Pittsburgh Steelers’ game against the Baltimore Ravens to Wednesday at 3:40 p.m. Eastern, rescheduling the A.F.C. North matchup for third time in six days. Like the previous moves, the postponement was meant to give the Ravens, who have had more than 20 players, including the N.F.L.’s reigning most valuable player, quarterback Lamar Jackson, test positive for the coronavirus, more time to get them cleared to return.

By the game’s start on Wednesday afternoon, 12 Ravens players will still be ineligible to play, butthe team should be able to hold two practices before meeting the Steelers, for the first time in over a week.

To accommodate the schedule change, the N.F.L. moved the Ravens’ following matchup against the Dallas Cowboys to Tuesday, Dec. 8, from Thursday. The Steelers’ Week 13 game against the Washington Football Team was rescheduled to Monday, Dec. 7, from Sunday.

Wednesday games are exceedingly rare. The last one played was in 2012, when the Giants and Dallas Cowboys moved their game to a Wednesday night to avoid overlapping with President Barack Obama’s speech at the Democratic National Convention. That had been the first regular season game on a Wednesday since the Los Angeles Rams’ victory against the Detroit Lions in 1948. The afternoon start time for Ravens-Steelers will result in the added oddity of a midafternoon, midweek nationally televised football broadcast.

The Baltimore-Pittsburgh postponement was the second scheduling convulsion announced Monday, after the San Francisco 49ers said in a statement that the team will play its next two home games in State Farm Stadium, home to the Arizona Cardinals. The relocation came after health officials in Santa Clara County, Calif., where the team’s stadium is, banned contact sports at all levels through late December in a bid to slow the surge in coronavirus infections there.

The team will play its games in Week 13 and 14 in the Cardinals’ Glendale, Ariz. facility, which was able to accommodate the move because the teams’ schedules do not conflict. The 49ers will play against the Buffalo Bills on Dec. 7 and will face the Washington Football Team on Dec. 13, but the club still had not determined where they will practice and live during that time.

“Very appreciative of Arizona welcoming us during these unprecedented times,” 49ers team owner Jed York wrote on Twitter, thanking the Cardinals team owner Michael Bidwill.

While local and state guidelines for controlling the spread of the virus have prevented spectators from attending some N.F.L. games in other markets this season, this is the first time local health protocols have prevented a team from playing games or practicing in its home market. This summer, health officials in Santa Clara were among the first to ban fans at N.F.L. games and passed an ordinance requiring players and coaches to wear masks at all times, months before the league took the same step last week.

On Saturday, Santa Clara County took new measures intended to reduce the rate of infections, including mandatory 14-day quarantining of people who travel there from more than 150 miles away, as cases in the area rose to a new high last week and its positive cases per 100,000 people to climbed to 26.8. The number of infections per 100,000 residents in Maricopa County, Ariz., site of the Cardinals’ stadium, is 48.6, nearly twice as high as in Santa Clara County.





No.21 article:
David Andahl, 55, Dies; Elected Posthumously in North Dakota

He caught Covid-19 as the virus surged across the state. How to fill his vacant seat in the State Legislature remained in dispute.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

He was known as “Dakota Dave,” a walking, talking billboard for his home state, North Dakota.

David Dean Andahl was passionate about farming, cattle ranching and racecar driving, a sport he pursued at tracks around the world. He was president of Dakota Sports Marketing, where he promoted the state’s economic and tourism opportunities.

And he was interested in politics. He was a member of the Burleigh County Planning and Zoning Commission for 16 years and served as its chairman for eight.

This year, he sought to take a step up by running for the state House of Representatives. Mr. Andahl cleared the first hurdle, winning a heated Republican primary in June against a longtime incumbent, State Representative Jeff Delzer, chairman of the appropriations committee.

Mr. Andahl won the endorsement of two of the state’s most influential Republicans, Gov. Doug Burgum and Senator Kevin Cramer. Mr. Cramer told The Minneapolis Star Tribune that he had backed Mr. Andahl “because we need more Trump Republicans in the State Legislature.”

But at the same time, the deadly coronavirus was surging across the country, especially in North Dakota. Mr. Andahl, who already had unspecified health issues, was cautious about the virus, his family wrote on Facebook. But in late September he became ill and was hospitalized in Bismarck. On Oct. 5, with the election a month away, he died after “a short battle with Covid-19,” the family said. He was 55.

At that point, it was too late to take his name off the ballot. On Nov. 3, the residents of District 8, a sprawling rural area north of Bismarck, elected him to the Legislature posthumously.

A political squabble ensued over how to fill the seat. The governor sought to make an appointment but was blocked by the attorney general. The matter remains unresolved in court, Loren DeWitz, chairman of the District 8 Republican Party, said in a phone interview.

At an outdoor memorial service for Mr. Andahl, he was remembered for being a man of his word; for his love of his dogs, Bear, Zeus and Hank; and for his willingness to lend a hand, whether, as one friend put it, “building a deck, borrowing a tool, hauling many loads of dirt or just being there to drink and listen.” His drink of choice was Glenlivet single malt.

Mr. Andahl was born on Oct. 30, 1964, in Bismarck. He obtained an associate degree from Bismarck State College and studied animal science at North Dakota State University. His survivors include his parents, Ronald and Patricia Andahl; his sister, Darcy; and his son, Charles (Tia) Lacy.

Mr. Andahl was a partner and general manager of 4T Ranch, which has been in the Andahl family for three generations. As Bismarck grew, developers expressed interest in buying pieces of the ranch. Instead of selling, the family created its own company, 4T Ranch Developers Inc., with Mr. Andahl as president, and built a rural housing subdivision called “The Ranch.”





No.22 article:
This Los Angeles Team Wants to Diversify Cycling. They’re Starting With Its Podiums.

As a Black cyclist from South Los Angeles, Justin Williams says he has frequently been written off by managers. That hasn’t slowed him down as he works to diversify the sport.

Justin Williams is a professional American cyclist, a celebrated national champion and a standout for another reason he wishes were not so: He is one of the few Black racers in the sport.

Now, he is bent on changing that.

After setbacks and a long journey through professional cycling, Williams formed his own team of professional riders in Los Angeles in 2019 with his younger brother Cory. The team, called L39ION (pronounced legion), has 14 riders, including 10 professionals, who race the full gamut of events — criteriums, road, gravel and cross.

“L39ION doesn’t force riders to conform to white norms,” or the expectations of what professional cyclists should look, act, or sound like, Williams said. He brought old rivals, former teammates and friends together to form the Los Angeles-based team, a roster that includes Black, Latino, Pacific Islander and white cyclists. “We wanted to win races while making the sport inclusive.”

This month, L39ION announced plans to form a squad that will compete in one of three tiers of racing overseen by the U.C.I., the governing body of cycling.

Williams said he aims to bring diversity to a sport in which few Black riders have cracked through. He is leading a new generation of bike racing that’s a far cry from the long tenured traditions of the Tour de France, circuits that have historically been filled with predominantly white, European athletes.

“I’ve been fighting all my life, why would I stop now?” said Williams, 31.

As one of the most successful riders in the country, Williams focuses on criteriums, or crits, which are short road races often looping around a city or neighborhood. 

Getting to where he is today wasn’t easy. Williams charted a winding career path, one in which he repeatedly refused to conform to the mores in professional cycling.

Williams, who is from South Los Angeles, got his first bike when he was 13, learning to ride from his father, Calman, an amateur racer. Biking was one of his few escapes from a rough neighborhood.

“I remember it being unpredictable. A lot of gang members in the community and kids selling drugs on the street,” Williams said. “Other than our time riding bikes, my parents kept us inside, focused on studying. They didn’t trust us to go out, which feels justified now. You could easily be caught in the wrong place and end up dead or in jail. I remember bullet holes in our street sign. I don’t know what I would have done without a bike.”

Near the end of high school, Williams’s cycling career started to take form. He focused on road racing, eyeing iconic European stage races with a dream of becoming the next Lance Armstrong. “But it was different for me,” he said.

“I was isolated, didn’t have support, and everything felt foreign,” Williams said. “Trying to develop as a young man and an athlete was impossible. It was so far from how I grew up.”

The numbers are stark. Only five of the 743 riders on cycling’s elite World Tour are Black. None of the 113 professional riders licensed by U.S.A. Cycling are Black. (In 2020, L39ION was not licensed by U.S.A. Cycling.) This year, there was one lone Black athlete, the French cyclist Kévin Reza, out of 176 riders on the start line of the Tour de France.

Williams got his start as an amateur at local crits, and in 2006, won the Junior Track National Championship.

Despite his promise in the closed circuit race scene, Williams continued to dabble in a mix of disciplines from time trials to multiday stage races, an anomaly for most riders who tend to specialize in one event.

With his race results improving, Williams moved to Europe in 2009, following the template for talented, young riders who dream of being the next great American cyclist. But even with moderate success, Williams frequently felt ostracized. “In Europe I was called ‘difficult,’” Williams said. “They called me a charity case and stereotyped me as an angry Black man.”

“I was written off faster than other riders and watched a lot of guys get on teams that never won a race. As a Black man from the ’hood, I was typecast before managers even got to know me,” he continued.

Williams returned to the U.S. in 2010 after spending a year abroad, putting his cycling ambitions on the back burner to study graphic design at Moorpark College near Los Angeles. He would race again when he was ready, he figured.

When that day came in 2016, he exploded back on the scene as part of the Cylance Pro Cycling team, winning 15 races at the highest echelon of the sport in both road races and crits.

Despite his meteoric rise, Williams found himself frustrated with contracts that paid a minimum wage and did not allow for him to have any real say in his race calendar or roles within the team. “I wanted a voice that wasn’t moderated,” he said. Without a predictable salary, he gambled on his own training, hoping it would pay off in prize money. He went on to win back-to-back national championships in 2018 and 2019, a feat that few have accomplished.

Williams believes the lack of diversity in cycling, and inaction, starts at the top, with team managers, race organizers, and cycling power brokers at the wheel. “Not one has spoken up about the racial justice movement because they don’t have to,” Williams said.

With L39ION serving as a bellwether, that may be beginning to change.

In April, Saint Augustine University became the first historically Black college to add a cycling team. The EF Pro Cycling team, a Colorado-based team known for their pink jerseys and sustained success on the World Tour, recently started two cycling programs at H.B.C.U. and Tribal Colleges and Universities with support from Cannondale and U.S.A. Cycling.

“We took a hard look in the mirror and asked ourselves what type of role we would play in making change,” said Dennis Kim, global vice president for marketing at Cannondale, referring to the wave of social action spurred by the killing of George Floyd.

“We looked at everything from supporting youth teams to feeder teams to the World Tour, but after conversations with EF and U.S.A. Cycling, we decided working with H.B.C.U.s would create more impact. It would be amazing if this program one day created an Olympic champion, but a better sign of success is a graduate of the program returning to their community and starting their own team.”

On a similar timeline, two organizations have sprung up in the wake of social justice protests around the world. Bike Rides for Black Lives organizes mass rides around the country and Ride for Racial Justice creates access to cycling resources and education.

“We want everyone to feel safe on a bicycle. The fact of the matter is, that many don’t,” said Massimo Alpian, a board member of Ride for Racial Justice. “Change only happens if we work grass roots with communities and top-down with brands and local governments. To make cycling more inclusive we must change social norms, offer education, and create more representation.”

The movements echo the work Williams has led with L39ION. The team has a partnership with Outride, a nonprofit that aims to get children on bikes through school programs and supports young cyclists who can’t afford travel costs or entrance fees to races around the country.

But there’s more to be done, Williams said. “As a kid, cycling freed me from so many things. It connected me with people from all walks of life and helped me grow,” he said.

“In terms of impact, we’re not making nearly enough, honestly. We’re not reaching the level we want yet.”





No.23 article:
Noah Hawley Isn’t Done with ‘Fargo’

“The show has always been about the American experience, and there’s still a lot to say about it,” said the creator of the FX crime drama, which wrapped up its fourth season on Sunday night.

When the third season of “Fargo” ended in 2017, the concept of “alternative facts” and “fake news” were clearing the way for what became the Trump presidency’s challenge to reality. The themes the creator Noah Hawley explored in that season seemed oddly prescient, all the way down to Russians and disinformation, but he shrugged it off: “You can never predict the zeitgeist,” he said at the time. “I just managed to land in it.”

Now he’s managed to land in it again. During a pandemic-induced, five-month interruption in filming, Hawley’s theme for Season 4 of “Fargo” — which ended Sunday evening — again collided with current events. This time, a story set in 1950 featured Chris Rock as the head of a Black crime family in Kansas City locked in a battle with Italians — and both groups being demonized by white police and politicians. There are still plenty of Hawley’s trademark Easter eggs — ample references to the show’s previous seasons and the canon of Joel and Ethan Coen, who wrote and directed the 1996 film that inspired the series. It’s difficult not to draw parallels to this summer’s social upheaval, but Hawley doesn’t see these issues as anything new.

“This show emerged into a country that was having an active and urgent conversation about race,” said Hawley last week. “But it’s also a conversation that we have been having for hundreds of years in this country, about this country. So I’m not sure that if this show premiered in 1986, or 1995, or 2007, that it would have been much different.”

The following conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity. Spoilers await — and if you didn’t watch the closing credits in Sunday’s finale, make sure to do so.

How difficult was it to return after such a long break?

It presented some challenges. It’s helpful that we had nine hours that the cast could watch and everyone could understand, “oh, that’s the show that we were making” — which you don’t usually have. The crew and the cast, if you’re lucky, they might see the first hour while you’re filming. So in many ways, they were much more informed than they’ve ever been. I know that Jason Schwartzman never shaved that mustache because he was so dedicated.

After George Floyd was killed and protests started this summer, there were a lot of conversations in journalism and entertainment about representation: Who gets to tell whose story? As a white writer, were you at all concerned about how this season’s story would land in that climate?

Everyone has their own American story, their own American experience. My American experience starts on one side of my family with a grandmother who fled from Russia in 1895, as the Cossacks were coming. Everyone arrived here at a certain point, and in a different way. What I knew in exploring the immigration experience and the experience of Black Americans is that, to the degree that those are not my story, that I did want and need as many voices and as much understanding as possible to be able to tell those stories: in the writers’ room and among directors and actors and, you know, as much diversity as possible — an actual diversity of experience and opinion and perspective.

Those conversations were so intense that I wondered if you felt like the story carried more weight?

You used the word “conversation,” and that’s what I’m trying to have. And not everyone says the right thing in a conversation. But what was important to me, to the degree that this show has always been a show about America, was to continue to explore America from all points of view. On a very primal level, the reason that I write is to try to understand the world that I’m living in and to recreate the world in a fictional way, and then look at it and go, “Did I get this right?” That becomes the exploration — and the risk, because there’s a risk that you’re getting it wrong. But we can’t operate from a place of fear in terms of asking the hard questions.

I had a lot of conversations throughout the process with a lot of people that I really respected, who I knew would call me out if I was not being authentic. If it was Chris Rock, writers, directors, or the other actors, if there had been a moment that didn’t feel authentic or felt like it was romanticized, then we would have those conversations. We had an interesting conversation in the writers’ room about Ethelrida [E’myri Crutchfield]. Some of the writers wanted, because she’s a teenage girl, to have her struggle with some moral issues of her own; maybe her aunt offers her a drink, and she takes it because she’s a teenager. There was a fear expressed that I was making her too honorable a character because she was Black. I said, “No, I’m making her that honorable a character because she is the character this year that represents that pure goodness that Marge [Frances McDormand] represented in the movie, or Patrick Wilson represented in Season 2, or Carrie Coon in Season 3: decency.” The struggle that she is going through is a struggle against exterior forces, but she is very comfortable with who she is. She knows that the path that she’s on, one mistake can throw her off it. So we had those conversations and, as in any good writers’ room or any good process, it forces you to justify the choices that you make.

As I said, we can’t live in fear. Writers have to be willing to take those risks and put ourselves out there because the reward is too great. To be able to put yourself into somebody else’s shoes, and to create that empathy in yourself and in others — that is the definition of good writing, I think.

This season is set in a time and place, postwar America, that was superficially quite optimistic: “We can do anything.” But many of the characters are traumatized, which seems to say that America is actually a vicious place.

I came upon this equation when I was writing Season 3, which is that irony without humor is just violence. Think about the stories of Kafka. But also think about the immigrant experience or the experience of Black people in America. We say it’s the land of the free and the home of the brave, and yet those freedoms are not available to everyone equally. What is that if not ironic? But there’s no humor to it. When you tell someone that they have to be an American to be accepted, but then when they become an American, you say they’re not a real American — it has the setup for a joke, but the joke is on you. It’s not funny.

That comedic setup to a tragic payoff feels very much to me like what many of Joel and Ethan’s movies have that is unique, and something that I felt very much would translate from that fundamentally Jewish point of view to the experience of people of color and immigrants in this country.

It was a pleasant surprise to see so many “Raising Arizona” references this season. As you’re writing, do you create Coen mile markers for yourself as templates?

It’s like the Talmud, right? You go to the big book of questions: “How has this problem been asked and answered before?” I knew that in setting up this epic season with 21 main characters trying to look at the history of crime in America, that there was a lot of information I was going to have to deliver to the audience very quickly. So I tried to think, how had Joel and Ethan done that? My mind went to “Raising Arizona”: The first 11 minutes of that movie is this amazing narrated montage that tells you everything you know about H.I. McDunnough [Nicolas Cage], and Nathan Arizona and their quintuplets, and it brings you all the way up to the ladder on the roof of the car as they’re driving off to go get them a baby. It’s a comic masterpiece unto itself.

So I settled on this history-report format from Ethelrida, which allowed me both to tell the history of crime in Kansas City and also her history, and introduce all the important characters and ideas in about 24 minutes. Once I had “Raising Arizona” in mind, I thought it would be fun if we did a jailbreak with two women instead of John Goodman and William Forsythe, and rather than being H.I.’s buddies from prison, it’s Ethelrida’s aunt and her paramour. That led me into a story that drove those characters through the rest of the season.

What about Mike Milligan [Bokeem Woodbine] made you want to close the season out with him?

He remains a kind of active conundrum, as this iconoclastic character that didn’t seem to belong anywhere. He’s clearly a Black man in America in 1979. But you don’t get the sense that he really fits into that culture. He clearly doesn’t really fit into the white culture he’s part of, or at least he’s not respected there. And he also has this larger perspective on things. He’s a very thoughtful and erudite speaker who played the game — he went out and did what his boss told him; he won the war and he came home and he wanted his reward, and his reward was a tiny office with an electric typewriter. We left him in limbo, and when I thought about what to do this year, he was still there in that limbo. His story wasn’t done.

I didn’t set out to tell the Mike Milligan origin story per se. It was an element of this larger story in the same way that Season 2 was the Molly Solverson [Allison Tolman] origin story. There was a young girl named Molly Solverson, and she was in a few scenes, but it was mostly the story of her father and her mother. It’s the same here. I think you can get from Satchel, whose story we’ve seen in Season 4, to the Mike Milligan that we see in Season 2, but it’s not the sum total of what the story was.

Art Blakey’s “Moanin’” features prominently in the last two seasons, in two different formats. What about that album resonates with you?

Percussion has always been really attractive to me as a sonic element. When it came time in Season 1 to introduce Mr. Wrench and Mr. Numbers, I asked [the composer] Jeff Russo, I said: “I don’t want music, I just want a beat. That’s their signature.” And it continued from there. In Season 2, we had a drum line, we brought in a marching band to record; Season 3, there was a lot of New Orleans-style music that was very rhythmic. Jazz is such a rhythmic form of music, so in figuring out what to set this season’s opening 24-minute montage to — which in “Raising Arizona” is “Ode to Joy” for banjo and whistling — I went to “Caravan” as a piece of music that you can hear for 24 minutes and not be tired of it. We can reinvent in different ways, and some of it is just percussion.

With “Moanin’,” in the third season I used a song version in the first hour. This season, when we knew we were doing the jazz club and they asked me what piece of music I wanted to use, it occurred to me to use that same thing but to do it from an instrumental point of view. Again, it’s a kind of rhyme with the previous year, but there’s something about that music — it’s kind of the perfect piece.

Are you definitely done with “Fargo”?

No, I don’t think so. I’ve been saying I’m done for three years and I haven’t been, so it feels obnoxious to say it again. The show has always been about the American experience, and there’s still a lot to say about it. That said, I don’t have a timeline and I don’t even really have an idea. But I find myself compelled to come back to this style of storytelling: to tell a crime story, which is also a kind of character study and philosophical document exploration of our American experience. It’s not something I feel like I ever would have been allowed to do without the Coen Brothers’ model in the beginning, and now I can’t think of why I would do it in any other format. The tone of voice is also unique: It’s that Kafka setup to a tragic punchline, with a happy ending. That feels like a magic trick, if you can do it right.

Do you have much interaction with the Coens about the series, or feedback from them?

I do not. I have not spoken to them in a while. In the first two or three years I would make my way to New York and have a breakfast or a quick conversation from time to time. It’s never creative. It’s never about the show, other than they say, “You’re still making that thing?”

If they have something to volunteer, I’d love to hear it. But at the same time, their tacit neglect is — I still get a warm feeling from it. Because they’ve allowed me to do this. This grand experiment in storytelling that has been so fulfilling and enriching for me.





No.24 article:
For Japanese Princess, Fairy-Tale Wedding May Be Distant Prospect

Crown Prince Akishino said he approved of his daughter’s marriage to a commoner but noted that the public may be opposed, dimming prospects for an official ceremony.

When Princess Mako of Japan became engaged to her college boyfriend in 2017, many Japanese hoped for a fairy-tale wedding for the couple.

But three years later, the prospects of the eldest daughter of Crown Prince Akishino and her beau, Kei Komuro, a commoner and aspiring lawyer, living happily ever after look, well, complicated.

In remarks released Monday, Crown Prince Akishino said he approved of the wedding. But he also said that there appeared to be opposition to the union in Japan, making it difficult to proceed with an official ceremony. The crown prince has previously said that could happen only if the Japanese public approved of the marriage.

“The Constitution says marriage shall be based only on the mutual consent of both sexes,” Crown Prince Akishino said in a transcript of the remarks, made on Nov. 20 on the occasion of his 55th birthday. “If that is what they really want, then I think that is something I need to respect as a parent,” he said.

But, he added, “I think it’s not the case that many people approve and are happy about it.”

The couple, both 29, were originally set to marry in 2018, but the date was pushed back after Japanese tabloids caught wind of money problems in Mr. Komuro’s family. His mother had become embroiled in a dispute with a former fiancé of hers over $36,000, some of which was reportedly used for Mr. Komuro’s schooling.

The reports raised questions about Mr. Komuro’s intentions, with some detractors accusing him of being a gold digger. The whiff of scandal proved too much for many Japanese, not to mention the sensibilities of the imperial family, which has no taste for the incessant dramas that have plagued royals in other countries.

The drama has echoes of another couple seemingly at odds with the royal establishment in their own country. Prince Harry of Britain, and his wife, Meghan, announced in January that they would no longer be full-time working members of the royal family.

In a 2018 news conference, Crown Prince Akishino said he “respected” the desire of his daughter and Mr. Komuro to wed, but that an official ceremony would not take place unless the public approved.

Unperturbed, the couple said that they would tie the knot in 2020.

In the meantime, Mr. Komuro went to Fordham Law School in New York to pursue a master’s degree, adding a long-distance relationship to the other pressures on the couple.

Earlier this month, Princess Mako released a statement saying that while she and Mr. Komuro remained committed to each other, the wedding would not take place this year. She did not say when she expected it to happen.

In his remarks, the crown prince suggested that Mr. Komuro had not taken sufficient steps to address concerns surrounding his mother’s affairs, and that the marriage should not proceed until he had publicly demonstrated his commitment to resolving the problem.

The ups and downs of the prospective couple are a reminder of the fragility of the world’s oldest monarchy.

Japanese law forbids women from ascending the throne, and heirs must come from the male line of succession. Following the abdication of Emperor Akihito last year and the ascension of his son Naruhito to the Chrysanthemum Throne, only two potential heirs remain: the crown prince and his son.

Under Japanese law, if Princess Mako marries Mr. Komuro she will have to leave the imperial family and become a commoner herself, even if the wedding was officially sanctioned, further shrinking the already tiny royal clan.





No.25 article:
De Blasio Has Actually Got Something Right

The mayor so many love to hate is doing more than most to get kids back in class.

Sometimes it seems like the single point of consensus in America’s fractured politics is contempt for New York City’s mayor, Bill de Blasio.

Even before Covid, animus against him was a widely recognized phenomenon. (“Why Bill de Blasio is so hated, explained,” said a Vox headline from last year.) During the protests set off by the killing of George Floyd, the left — including many of the mayor’s current and former staff members — excoriated him for refusing to stand up to the New York Police Department. In a failed bid to save his House seat in a pro-Trump district, the Democrat Max Rose ran an ad in which he simply faced the camera and said, “Bill de Blasio is the worst mayor in the history of New York City.”

But if de Blasio has often been a bad mayor, when it comes to educating kids during the pandemic, he’s been one of the best big city leaders in the country. That’s both to his credit and to others’ disgrace.

This fall, when many other cities were settling for the path of least resistance and going fully remote, New York was the first major city to reopen its schools for part-time in-person education. And less than two weeks after they shut down amid rising coronavirus cases, de Blasio has announced the goal of bringing some elementary students, as well as some students with special needs, back full-time, something few other cities have managed.

De Blasio’s public communication has been characteristically awful, and his policy zigzags have induced whiplash among many parents. Those who haven’t opted into part-time in-person education probably won’t have the opportunity to return full-time; it’s a possibility only because many schools have just a small fraction of students attending. The city has done a poor job of explaining why the previous threshold for closing schools — a citywide coronavirus positivity rate of 3 percent — no longer applies.

Nevertheless, at a time when many cities aren’t even attempting more than online school, which is pedagogically disastrous, New York is doing something brave. Working with Michael Mulgrew, the president of New York City’s teachers union, de Blasio has begun to chart a path back to educational normalcy for at least some kids. “Both of them have really tried in ways that others have not,” Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, told me.

The politics of school reopening are hellishly complex, and don’t break down along neat ideological lines.

Remote schooling has been particularly awful for poor students and students of color, and it’s exacerbating already severe educational inequality. As Alec MacGillis reported in September: “There has always been a gulf between public education and private. But the new disparity is stark: In many cities, children in private schools are going to school, and children in public schools are not.” My kids are being privately taught in a pod with other children, and I have a hard time arguing that online school is good enough for others when it isn’t good enough for us.

At the same time, it’s the job of teachers unions to protect their members. It’s not surprising that many have resisted reopening when the federal government has done so little to support schools, forcing teachers to spend their own money on cleaning supplies and protective gear. Governors nationwide should be following the lead of Rhode Island, closing bars and gyms while leaving schools open, but Senate Republicans won’t provide funding to make up for lost tax revenues. Teachers are being asked to take serious personal risks for a society that doesn’t prioritize them or their students.

That makes it all the more important that the New York City plan, which will include weekly testing, has union buy-in. “Mulgrew and I were both convinced by the doctors that we were talking to, and the industrial hygienists that we were talking to,” Weingarten said, that with the right safeguards and enough testing, “schools could reopen safely.”

Many countries in Europe have already done what New York is trying to do, keeping the youngest kids, who seem to transmit the virus less than adults, in school even amid surging infections. Weingarten, who is reportedly being considered to be Joe Biden’s secretary of education, says the city’s approach could become a model for the country. “I’m actually optimistic given what New York City is kind of plowing through,” she said.

When he was first elected mayor, de Blasio changed the face of education in New York City — and the lives of many parents, myself included — by instituting high- quality universal pre-K. Since then, his time in office has been marked by embarrassments and disappointments.

If he were able to get kids back into school full time in the middle of this calamity, it would do much to salvage his reputation, as well as the morale of the city he’s so haphazardly led. His off-again-on-again reopening has been maddening, but look around the country. No matter how much people love to hate de Blasio, there aren’t many examples of mayors handling the school crisis better.





No.26 article:
These Shrimp Leave the Safety of Water and Walk on Land. But Why?

A biologist decided to investigate a shrimp parade that attracts thousands of tourists in a province of Thailand.

The shrimp stop swimming at dusk and gather near the river’s edge. After sunset, they begin to climb out of the water. Then they march. All night long, the inch-long crustaceans parade along the rocks.

The parading shrimp of northeastern Thailand have inspired legends, dances and even a statue. (Locals also eat them.) During the rainy season, between late August and early October, tourists crowd the riverbanks with flashlights to watch the shrimp walk.

Watcharapong Hongjamrassilp first learned about the parading shrimp, and the hundred thousand or more tourists who come each year to see them, about 20 years ago. When he started studying biology, he returned to the topic. “I realized that we know nothing about this,” he said: What species are they? Why and how do they leave the safety of the water to walk upstream on dry land? Where are they going?

Mr. Hongjamrassilp, a graduate student at the University of California, Los Angeles, decided to answer those questions himself. His findings appeared this month in the Journal of Zoology.

Working with wildlife center staff members, Mr. Hongjamrassilp staked out nine sites along a river in Thailand’s Ubon Ratchathani province. They found shrimp parading at two of the sites — a stretch of rapids, and a low dam.

The videos they recorded revealed that the shrimp paraded from sundown to sunup. They traveled up to 65 feet upstream. Some individual shrimp stayed out of the water for 10 minutes or more.

“I was so surprised,” Mr. Hongjamrassilp said, “because I never thought that a shrimp can walk that long.” Staying in the river’s splash zone may help them keep their gills wet, so they can keep taking in oxygen. He also observed that the shells of the shrimp seem to trap a little water around their gills, like a reverse dive helmet.

DNA analysis from captured shrimp showed that nearly all belonged to the species Macrobrachium dienbienphuense, part of a genus of shrimp that live mostly or fully in freshwater. Many Macrobrachium species spend part of their lives migrating upstream to their preferred habitats.

Most parading shrimp that Mr. Hongjamrassilp captured were young. Observations and lab experiments showed that these shrimp probably leave the water when the flow becomes too strong for them. Larger adult shrimp can handle a stronger current without washing away, so they’re less likely to leave the water.

Walking on land is dangerous for the little shrimp, even under cover of darkness. Predators including frogs, snakes and large spiders lurk nearby, Mr. Hongjamrassilp says. “Literally, they wait to eat them along the river.”

And the shrimp can survive on land for only so long. If the parading crustaceans lose their way, they may dry out and die before they get back to the river. A few times, Mr. Hongjamrassilp came across groups of lost shrimp dead on the rocks, their once-translucent bodies baked pink.

Yet most navigate upstream successfully, and scientists have spotted other freshwater shrimp around the world performing similar feats, scaling dams and even climbing waterfalls.

Leaving the water when the swimming gets tough may have helped these animals spread to new habitats over their evolutionary history, Mr. Hongjamrassilp said. Today, the number of parading shrimp in Thailand seems to be declining. He thinks tourist activity may be a factor, and learning more about the shrimp might help protect them.

The study’s authors made “some really excellent observations,” said Alan Covich, an ecologist at the University of Georgia who was not involved in the research. But understanding why the Ubon Ratchathani shrimp move upstream, and how far they travel, will require more research, he said.

“The most surprising thing to me was that it attracted so many tourists,” Dr. Covich said. He doesn’t know of any other example of people gathering to appreciate a crustacean in quite the same way.

“We have crayfish festivals, we have all kinds of things,” Dr. Covich said, “but generally it’s people eating them, not watching them move.”





No.27 article:
Most Republicans Say They Doubt the Election. How Many Really Mean It?

Survey research tries to sort out the typical partisan reactions to a loss from an erosion of trust that may be more lasting.

Since the election, surveys have consistently found that about 70 percent to 80 percent of Republicans don’t buy the results. They don’t agree that Joe Biden won fair and square. They say the election was rigged. And they say enough fraud occurred to tip the outcome.

Those numbers sound alarmingly high, and they imply that the overwhelming majority of people in one political party in America doubt the legitimacy of a presidential election. But the reality is more complicated, political scientists say. Research has shown that the answers that partisans (on the left as well as on the right) give to political questions often reflect not what they know as fact, but what they wish were true. Or what they think they should say.

It’s incredibly hard to separate sincere belief from wishful thinking from what political scientists call partisan cheerleading. But on this topic especially, the distinctions matter a lot. Are Republican voters merely expressing support for the president by standing by his claims of fraud — in effectively the same way Republicans in Congress have — or have they accepted widespread fraud as true? Do these surveys suggest a real erosion in faith in American elections, or something more familiar, and temporary?

“It’s one thing to think that you don’t trust the guys in Washington because they’re not your party,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political scientist at the University of New Mexico. “But it’s a whole other thing if you think, ‘Well, gee, they didn’t even get there legitimately.’”

She suggested, however, that these results be taken with something between alarm and skepticism.

Tracking surveys, which ask people the same questions over time on topics like the direction of the country or the economy, showed a lot of Republicans responding immediately after the election as if they believed the president had lost. Among Republicans, consumer confidence swiftly dropped, as did the share saying they thought the country was headed in the right direction.

Those results, which mirror past elections, suggest many Republicans knew Mr. Biden would become president. But they don’t tell us much about whether Republicans believe he won fairly.

In one survey released today by YouGov and Bright Line Watch, a group of political scientists who monitor the state of American democracy, 87 percent of Republicans accurately said that news media decision desks had declared Mr. Biden the winner of the election. That rules out the possibility that many Republicans simply aren’t aware of that fact.

Still, only about 20 percent of Republicans said they considered a Biden victory the “true result.” And 49 percent said they expected Mr. Trump to be inaugurated on Jan. 20 — a belief that’s “unreasonably optimistic” at this point, said Brendan Nyhan, a Dartmouth political scientist who is part of the research group. Digging deeper, he added, only about half of the group expecting Mr. Trump to be inaugurated also said he was the true winner. The other Republicans expressed instead some uncertainty about the outcome.

“There’s a set of people who are true believers that Donald Trump won the election and is going to be inaugurated, but that’s a relatively small set,” he said. “There’s also a small set of people who acknowledge Joe Biden won, but not nearly as many as you would hope.

“And there’s a lot of people who are at different degrees of acceptance in between.”

In that group, political scientists say there are also people who give the equivalent of the party line answer to survey takers, regardless of their real beliefs.

“The evidence is strong that a number of people out there, even if they know the truth, will give a cheerleading answer,” said Seth Hill, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego. Part of the president’s base appears eager to stick it to the establishment, he said. If those voters interpret surveys about the election’s legitimacy as part of that establishment, he said, “it’s quite possible they will use this as another vehicle to express that sentiment.”

For other voters, what they sincerely believe and what they want to be true may well be the same thing. And politics can be inseparable from that reasoning.

Research has shown that supporters of the winning candidate in an election consistently have more faith that the election was fair than supporters of the losing candidate do. This pattern is true of both Democrats and Republicans. And when the parties’ fortunes flip in subsequent elections, people’s answers flip, too.

“Even if the magnitudes are bigger now, this tendency to respond in this way has just been with American politics since we’ve been asking about it,” said Michael Sances, a professor at Temple University.

A series of surveys by Morning Consult even suggests that Mr. Biden’s win in the election caused Democrats to revise their beliefs about the fairness of past elections. Respondents were asked before the November election if they believed presidential contests going back to 1992 were “free and fair.” In most of these years, about 65 percent to 70 percent of all registered voters said yes.

But when people were asked these questions again after this year’s election, Democratic faith in the 2016 election jumped 22 percentage points. It jumped 11 points for the 2000 election.

And so we may not have to wait too long for a clearer answer to whether Republicans have truly lost faith in elections. If their candidates win both Senate runoff races in Georgia in January, a contest with outsize national importance, perhaps Republicans across the country will decide that elections are fair after all.

One interpretation of this pattern is that our regularly alternating election outcomes mean that no one side gets wedded for too long to the idea that the whole enterprise is broken.

But all of these researchers emphasized that there was something new this year: One candidate in this election, the sitting president, has refused to concede and is himself working to undermine the results.

“In 2000, people had the sense that there was an unfairness in the process that had to do with technology; it wasn’t driven by partisan politics,” said Betsy Sinclair, a professor at Washington University in St. Louis. And there was a sense that we could fix that problem, she said, with updated voting machines and new legislation.

“The dispiriting thing for political scientists looking at 2020 is this isn’t a technical problem,” she said. “There isn’t an engineering solution. This is a much more complicated problem that has to do with the incentives of elites to stoke anger in the American population. That’s not something we can solve by coming up with a different ballot casting process.”

It will take more time, she said, before we know if the president’s messages will leave a lasting impression on Republicans. It’s clear that they have had an effect in the immediate term. One recent experiment found that among Mr. Trump’s supporters, people shown Twitter messages by the president attacking democratic norms lost confidence in elections.

In another recent survey experiment conducted by Brian Schaffner, Alexandra Haver and Brendan Hartnett at Tufts, supporters of Mr. Trump were asked shortly before Election Day how they would want him to respond if he lost, depending on the degree of the loss: if they would want him to concede and commit to a peaceful transfer or power, or resist the results and use any means to remain in office.

About 40 percent wanted him to take the latter option if he lost in the Electoral College and lost the national popular vote by only a percentage point or two. But roughly the same share wanted the president to contest the election even if he lost the popular vote by 10 to 12 points. That suggests, Mr. Schaffner said, that a significant share of the president’s supporters don’t necessarily believe the election was fraudulent. Rather, they were prepared to support the president’s contesting of the election no matter what.

Other evidence shows that Republicans actually felt fairly good about how their votes were handled this year. In a large Pew survey, 72 percent of Trump voters said they were confident their vote was accurately counted. And 93 percent said voting was easy for them. That paints a different picture of how these voters view the electoral process that played out closest to them, even as many said elections this year weren’t run well nationally.

Voters have often said in surveys that they have more confidence in elections in their community or state than they do in voting across the country. That may be a useful insight for this moment, too: It means that the president’s sweeping claims about election fraud won’t necessarily dissuade Republicans in Georgia in January. They probably have more faith in their local election workers and precinct offices than these surveys suggest they have for the country.





No.28 article:
‘Thumb-Stopping,’ ‘Humaning,’ ‘B4H’: The Strange Language of Modern Marketing

Are you “humaning”?

It’s hard to know. “Humaning” is not a word meant to be used by real people in real conversations. It’s just the latest of many ungainly terms from the world of marketing, where language is often twisted into new shapes with a certain goal in mind: persuading you to buy things.

“Humaning” was coined by Mondelez International, the company that makes Oreo cookies, Ritz crackers and Philadelphia cream cheese, with the help of the Ogilvy advertising agency. It set off a social-media backlash when it entered the lexicon this month, shortly after Mondelez declared that the word captured its approach to marketing snack foods around the world.

“Humaning is a unique, consumer-centric approach to marketing that creates real, human connections with purpose, moving Mondelez beyond cautious, data-driven tactics, and uncovering what unites us all,” the company announced in a news release. “We are no longer marketing to consumers, but creating connections with humans.”

Almost immediately, the coinage elicited a particularly human reaction: ridicule. Critics said “humaning” was yet another example of marketing lingo run amok, creative wordplay disintegrating into gibberish.

Robert Sutton, a Stanford University professor, described it as “corporate jargon monoxide.” Bob Hoffman, an advertising industry veteran behind the Ad Contrarian newsletter, was also less than pleased by the linguistic innovation. “In any sober industry,” he wrote, “the perpetrators of this nonsense would be taken out back by grown-ups and beaten to a pulp. Then they’d beat up on the pulp.” Gareth Cartman, a novelist and client services director at the British ad firm CLD, wrote on Twitter: “Humaning. Someone must pay for this crime.”

Every industry has its argot, but people who work in the advertising “space” seem to love insider language more than most. In news releases, ad copy and earnings statements, they have tortured plain talk in service of the sell, with Frankensteinian combinations and avalanches of acronyms.

“Every tribe has their way of communicating a message, their shorthand,” said Michael Kassan, the chief executive of MediaLink, a consulting firm that works with ad agencies. “Our industry is probably guiltier than most.”

In that spirit, here is a glossary of selected marketing lingo, new and old, that has proved baffling, or just annoying, even for some who work in the industry.

Adlob: Usually a component of an ad agency’s presentation that captures the essence of a proposed marketing campaign. Example: They seemed to like the concept, but we lost them with the adlob. Short for “ad-like object.”

B4H: This abbreviation has arrived in the wake of “B2B” (shorthand for “business-to-business”) and “B2C” (“business-to-consumer”). Bob Liodice, the chief executive of the Association of National Advertisers, invoked “B4H” in a recent speech that seemed to echo Mondelez’s use of “humaning”: “It’s not about B2B or B2C,” he told his audience. “It’s humanity for growth — B4H, brands for humans.”

Brand heat: When “buzz” lost its buzz, brand heat came to the rescue. For years Puma, Burberry and other companies have used the term to convey strong interest in a given brand. Nike has invoked the phrase more than a dozen times during earnings calls in recent years.

Customer journey: People don’t simply buy things anymore. Like epic heroes, they go on a customer journey that begins when they become aware of a certain product, continues through the time when they weigh whether or not they would like to have it, and reaches a conclusion when they buy it.

Hypertelling: Advertising copywriters excel in storytelling (see entry below) for their clients. And when they allow customers in on the marketing process by, say, using their brand-specific memes? That’s “hypertelling,” as defined by Mike Yapp, the director of Google’s “creative think tank” the Zoo.

Occasion: In the real world, an occasion is often a special event. In the land of marketing, it’s a lot more prevalent. A common phrase is “snacking occasion,” which is a growing part of America’s “eating occasions.” We are now heading into the season of “gifting occasions.”

Phygital: A mix of the physical and digital elements in a customer’s experience of a brand. A furniture retailer could try to bridge its online and real-world sales strategies with an app that allows a potential buyer to see how a couch on display in a showroom might look in their living room.

Purpose-driven lifestyle brand: Blue Apron, Chipotle, Goop and Godiva have described themselves with this phrase. It’s meant to suggest that customers don’t just want the products sold by a particular company, but seek a deeper connection with it and wear it “as a badge,” as Christopher Brandt, the chief marketing officer of Chipotle, put it.

Snackable content: Short promotional videos made for smartphones and other devices.

Solutioning: Marketers love making one part of speech into another. A slogan from Hyundai — “However you family” — turns a noun into a verb. Toyota turned an adjective into a noun with “Start your impossible.” So it should come as no surprise that many marketers have taken a perfectly good noun, solution, and made it into a verb to describe the process of solving a knotty problem.

Storytelling: Companies once hired ad agencies for a simple job: conveying the appeal of their products, usually in a punchy manner. Now they want creative teams to immerse potential customers in narratives that practically mythologize their brands, and storytelling is perhaps the industry’s No. 1 buzzword. AdWeak, an advertising studio that also runs a parody Twitter account, has sold a tongue-in-cheek coffee mug emblazoned with the line: “For the last time, I’m not a copywriter, I’m a [expletive] brand storyteller.” (And even storytelling may not be enough, it seems. Mondelez says that “humaning” happens when “storytelling becomes storydoing.”)

Thumb-stopping: A descriptor for online content, made especially for mobile devices, that captures someone’s attention enough to stop him or her from scrolling. Pinterest, Shutterstock and Samsung have all promoted themselves as services that help users to create “thumb-stopping” material.

TLA: The ad industry loves acronyms and initialisms. OTT stands for “over-the-top” streaming content delivered over the internet. PDOOH is short for “programmatic digital out-of-home” (that is, ads placed through an automated bidding process on digital billboards and other signs). And TLA? It stands for a type of acronym. Specifically, “three-letter acronyms.”

Top-of-funnel: Remember the customer’s journey (see entry above)? Top-of-funnel (also known as TOFU) describes a special part of it, the moment when a potential buyer becomes aware of a product or service.





No.29 article:
Arizona and Wisconsin Certify Biden’s Wins: ‘The System Is Strong’

President Trump’s push to reverse the election results in key swing states fell short again as two states carried narrowly by Joe Biden formally signed off on their results.

Arizona and Wisconsin on Monday certified President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the winner in their presidential elections, formalizing his victory in two additional battleground states as President Trump’s effort to overturn the results of the election continued to fall short.

Such certifications would be an afterthought in any other year. But in a political environment where Mr. Trump’s false claims of sweeping voter fraud have created an alternate reality among his die-hard backers in the West Wing and beyond, the results have closed off yet another path to victory for him.

Although Mr. Trump has infused daily drama into the normal postelection bureaucratic process by urging his Republican allies to push to block the certification of results or to overturn them entirely in battleground states won by Mr. Biden, the proceedings on Monday were staid affairs.

In Arizona, Katie Hobbs, the Democratic secretary of state, formalized her state’s results while sitting at a long table with three Republicans who signed the election documents: Gov. Doug Ducey; the state’s attorney general, Mark Brnovich; and the chief justice of the Arizona Supreme Court, Robert M. Brutinel.

Ann Jacobs, the chairwoman of the Wisconsin Elections Commission, signed a document during a three-minute video conference in which she narrated herself certifying Mr. Biden’s victory.

“I am now signing it as the official state determination of the results of the Nov. 3, 2020, election and the canvass,” Ms. Jacobs said before holding the document up to the camera. Later Monday afternoon, Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin, a Democrat, announced that he had signed the state’s Certificate of Ascertainment appointing Mr. Biden’s slate of electors to represent Wisconsin at the Electoral College.

Mr. Trump, buoyed by his legal team and supporters in the conservative news media, has held out hope that he could somehow prevail in Wisconsin and Arizona, as well as Georgia, where Republican officials on Monday firmly refused to challenge Mr. Biden’s victory there. In all three states, along with Michigan and Pennsylvania, the other two states that flipped from voting for Mr. Trump in 2016 to Mr. Biden this year, the Trump campaign has sought to undermine the results through legal and public relations efforts aimed at delivering the president Electoral College votes.

But as has been the case elsewhere, elections officials from both parties in Arizona and Wisconsin declined to undercut their state laws to overturn the popular vote in their states.

“We do elections well in Arizona,” Mr. Ducey said on Monday as he signed documents certifying Mr. Biden’s Arizona victory and awarding him the state’s 11 Electoral College votes. “The system is strong.”

In Wisconsin, Ms. Jacobs chose to certify Mr. Biden’s victory there one day before the state’s Dec. 1 deadline to do so.

Ms. Jacobs’s certification followed the conclusion of recounts, requested and subsidized with $3 million from Mr. Trump’s campaign, in Dane and Milwaukee Counties that found Mr. Biden had added 87 votes to his statewide margin.

Ms. Jacobs, a Democrat from Milwaukee, said that certifying the result of the presidential election came at her discretion and that she expected the move to kick-start legal challenges from the Trump campaign.

“The power to do this is vested solely in the chair,” Ms. Jacobs said in an interview on Monday.

All states must exhaust legal challenges by Dec. 8. Electoral College delegates will meet in their states on Dec. 14, sending the results to Congress, which is scheduled to resolve any final disputes and certify the Electoral College vote on Jan. 6.

Unlike in other states where the Trump campaign has claimed, without producing any evidence, that widespread fraud led to Mr. Biden’s victories, Mr. Trump’s legal strategy in Wisconsin is predicated on an effort to throw out hundreds of thousands of absentee ballots on what amounts to a technicality.

The Trump campaign has argued in its recount petition that all ballots cast at in-person absentee voting sites before Election Day should be disqualified. The campaign claimed incorrectly that those absentee ballots had been issued without each voter submitting a written application requesting the ballot, but the top line of the absentee ballot applications that voters filled out at early voting sites read: “official absentee ballot application/certification.”

That argument would throw out hundreds of thousands of ballots across Wisconsin, including those cast by prominent Trump supporters, such as several state legislators and a top lawyer for the president in Wisconsin, Jim Troupis, according to The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

On Twitter on Monday, Mr. Trump called for Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, a Republican, to “overrule” Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state. The president also claimed baselessly that there had been “total election corruption” in Arizona. The Trump campaign has yet to identify any systemic voter fraud in its court challenges.

Ms. Jacobs’s certification of the Wisconsin results represents the opening of a window for legal challenges from the Trump campaign, which has argued that the president should have carried the state and its 10 Electoral College votes despite the fact that he lost to Mr. Biden there by 20,682 votes.

Two weeks ago, the Trump campaign requested recounts in Dane and Milwaukee, the state’s two largest and most Democratic counties, in an effort to build a legal case against Mr. Biden’s statewide victory. The Trump campaign is also likely to sue to challenge Ms. Jacobs’s certification.

Republicans on Wisconsin’s six-member bipartisan elections commission had said that they hoped Ms. Jacobs would wait to certify the presidential election results until after the Trump campaign had exhausted its legal challenges. But the Trump campaign has not filed any lawsuits in Wisconsin; it had nothing to challenge until Ms. Jacobs certified the results of the election.

The Trump campaign and Wisconsin Republicans are also expected to challenge Ms. Jacobs’s authority to certify the election results on her own. State law gives her, as the elections commission chair, clear authority and responsibility to certify the election, though other parts of the Wisconsin elections code mention the entire six-member bipartisan commission certifying presidential election results.





No.30 article:
He Was a Stick, She Was a Leaf; Together They Made History

In the spring of 2018 at the Montreal Insectarium, Stéphane Le Tirant received a clutch of 13 eggs that he hoped would hatch into leaves. The eggs were not ovals but prisms, brown paper lanterns scarcely bigger than chia seeds.

They were laid by a wild-caught female Phyllium asekiense, a leaf insect from Papua New Guinea belonging to a group called frondosum, which was known only from female specimens. Phyllium asekiense is a stunning leaf insect, occurring both in summery greens and autumnal browns. As Royce Cumming, a graduate student at the City University of New York, puts it, “Dead leaf, live leaf, semi-dried leaf.”

Mr. Le Tirant, the collections manager of the insectarium since 1989, specializes in scarab beetles; he estimates that he has 25,000 beetles in his private collection at home. But he had always harbored a passion for leaf insects and had successfully bred two species, a small one from the Philippines and a larger one from Malaysia. A Phyllium asekiense — rare, beautiful and, most important, living — would be a treasure in any insectarium.

In the insect-rearing laboratory, Mario Bonneau and other technicians nestled the 13 eggs on a mesh screen on a bed of coconut fibers and spritzed them often with water. In the fall, and over the course of several months, five eggs hatched into spindly black nymphs. The technicians treated the baby nymphs with utmost care, moving them from one tree to another without touching the insects, only whatever leaf they clung to.

“Other insects, we just grab them,” Mr. Le Tirant said. “But these small leaf insects were so precious, like jewels in our laboratory.”

The technicians offered the nymphs a buffet of fragrant guava, bramble and salal leaves. Two nymphs refused to eat and soon died. The remaining three munched on bramble, molted, munched, molted, and molted some more. One nymph grew green and broad, just like her mother.

But to Mr. Le Tirant’s befuddlement, the other two grew slender and sticklike and even sprouted a pair of wings. They bore a curious resemblance to leaf insects in Nanophyllium, an entirely different genus whose six species had been described only from male specimens.

Mr. Le Tirant emailed a picture to Mr. Cumming, who confirmed what had now become obvious: The two species in fact were one and the same. The hatchlings had solved a century-old mystery of the missing Nanophyllium female.

“Since 1906, we’ve only ever found males,” Mr. Cumming said. “And now we have our final, solid proof.”

Mr. Cumming and Mr. Le Tirant recently united the long-lost mates — broad-leafed females and slender males — in one species, Nanophyllium asekiense, in the journal ZooKeys.

It is actually quite common for leaf insects — which are a family in the broader order of stick insects — to be known from just one sex. Many stick insects display extreme sexual dimorphism, with females unrecognizable from their male companions.

In 2018, Paul Brock, a scientific associate at the Natural History Museum in London who edited a rough draft of the new paper, solved a similar mystery in stick insects. He and his colleagues described the first male Acanthoxyla, a genus of stick insect from New Zealand that was thought to be exclusively female, from a specimen found on a car in Cornwall, England.

“Leaf insects are a particular challenge as they are so infrequently found in the wild,” Dr. Brock said.

Leaf insects are almost impossible to see in nature, and scientists can’t study what they can’t see. Mr. Cumming, one of the world’s few experts on leaf insects, has never seen a leaf insect in the wild, only specimens in captivity or museums. Dr. Brock has seen wild stick insects, but never a wild leaf insect.

Mr. Le Tirant, who has gone on many insect-collecting trips, has seen only one leaf insect in the wild. While searching with a local collector in Malaysia, Mr. Le Tirant discovered it after hitting a tree with his large collecting net, which shook free many leaves and one leaf insect. “If I was alone, I would never have seen a single leaf insect,” he said, shaking his head at his fortune. Mr. Le Tirant took the insect back to Montreal, where it lived and died and still resides, in a drawer in the insectarium.

Even if someone could distinguish a leaf insect from its arboreal brethren, there is an almost zero chance the insect would be in the company of its mate, let alone in flagrante delicto. Whereas the winged males flit from tree to tree, the flightless females spend their entire lives high up in the canopy, out of reach and sight, swaying in the breeze as leaves will do. “By chance, one might be blown out of a tree,” Mr. Cumming said.

How, then, to match leaf insects to their mates? With field observation a nonstarter, entomologists resorted to hypothesizing. Two decades ago, Dr. Brock was the first to suggest that the female mate to Nanophyllium could be found in the frondosum group. He was examining a pair of male and female leaf insects from Papua New Guinea whose uneven legs looked curiously similar.

“This would be a simple task nowadays, by undertaking DNA bar coding,” Dr. Brock said. But he lacked enough evidence: The female was missing her forelegs, and only one species of Nanophyllium had been formally described.

In 2017, Mr. Cumming decided to see if he could prove Dr. Brock’s hypothesis. He and Mr. Le Tirant spent several years poring through museum specimens, which has resulted in 21 newly described leaf insect species. Mr. Cumming, Mr. Le Tirant and colleagues spent two years writing a paper identifying the shared morphology of frondosum females and Nanophyllium males. The similarities were small but certain — two nodes at the back of the head, and leaflike lobed legs.

Their paper had already passed peer review when Mr. Le Tirant’s nymphs grew up and unexpectedly provided unshakable proof. “We had to rewrite everything,” Mr. Cumming said. Mr. Brock is delighted the puzzle has been solved at last.

At the Montreal Insectarium, the two male Nanophylliums flew day and night for four months and died before their female sibling matured. She lived for nine months, laying 245 eggs in Easter egg pastels: blues, yellows and beiges. “To have eggs from one female in so many colors?” Mr. Le Tirant said. “That is something very special, something I have never seen in the past for a leaf insect.”

Very few of her eggs have hatched, and no nymphs survived. But Mr. Le Tirant has kept all of her eggs, hatched and unhatched, on pins and in jars.

Although the pandemic has prevented Mr. Cumming and Mr. Le Tirant from meeting in person, they have become fast friends and will soon finish a grander project revising the evolutionary history of leaf insects.

Mr. Le Tirant still marvels at his luck — of the eggs hatching, and of becoming acquainted with Mr. Cumming a few years before Mr. Le Tirant might have retired, giving Mr. Le Tirant the chance to study the alluring insects near the end of a long career devoted to beetles. “You could study rocks your whole life, or you could study diamonds,” he said. “What a fabulous insect.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.31 article:
Burning Fossil Fuels Helped Drive Earth’s Most Massive Extinction

Massive volcanic eruptions ignited oil and coal deposits in Siberia in the events that led to the Permian-Triassic “Great Dying” event.

Paleontologists call it the Permian-Triassic mass extinction, but it has another name: “the Great Dying.” It happened about 252 million years ago, and, over the course of just tens of thousands of years, 96 percent of all life in the oceans and, perhaps, roughly 70 percent of all land life vanished forever.

The smoking gun was ancient volcanism in what is today Siberia, where volcanoes disgorged enough magma and lava over about a million years to cover an amount of land equivalent to a third or even half of the surface area of the United States.

But volcanism on its own didn’t cause the extinction. The Great Dying was fueled, two separate teams of scientists report in two recent papers, by extensive oil and coal deposits that the Siberian magma blazed through, leading to combustion that released greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane.

“There was lots of oil, coal and carbonates formed before the extinction underground near the Siberian volcanism,” said Kunio Kaiho, a geochemist at Tohoku University in Sendai, Japan, and the lead author of one of the studies, published this month in Geology, which presented evidence for the burning of ancient fossil fuels by magma. “We discovered two volcanic combustion events coinciding with the end-Permian land extinction and marine extinction.”

The findings solidify the Great Dying as one of the best examples that we have from Earth’s history of what a changing climate can do to life on our planet.

Dr. Kaiho and his team retrieved samples from rock deposits in south China and northern Italy that formed around the time of the extinction, and they detected spikes of a molecule called coronene. That substance, Dr. Kaiho explained, is produced only when fossil fuels combust at extremely high temperatures — like those you might find in magma.

One potential issue with coronene, says Henrik Svenson, a geologist at the University of Oslo who was not involved in the work, is that it forms only at temperatures exceeding 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit, and to reach such temperatures, the fossil fuels would have had to be enveloped inside the magma, not just sitting next to it.

But the team’s findings are backed up by a Nature Geoscience study published last month that presents chemical evidence for the acidification of the oceans after the fossil fuel combustion and greenhouse gas release.

As the planet warmed, the oceans absorbed more and more carbon dioxide. This caused waters to acidify to the point that organisms like corals would have dissolved, explained Hana Jurikova, a biogeochemist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland who led the study. Dr. Jurikova and her team discovered spikes of the element boron — a proxy for acidity levels — in fossil brachiopod shells found in rocks in Italy that stretch across the extinction boundary.

“For the first time, we’re able to explain what caused the extinction,” Dr. Jurikova said. “If you just increase the temperature, organisms often find a way to cope. But the problem is if you really change temperature and acidification, and maybe nutrients, that’s when your organisms will not be able to adapt.” Today, with sea-surface temperatures on the rise, the oceans are acidifying, and some shelled animals are already showing signs of their shells dissolving.

Dr. Svenson thinks the next step for geologists is field work in Siberia to get a handle on whether ancient magma interacted with the fossil fuel deposits as the new studies imply.

“A lot of this we simply do not know,” Dr. Svenson said.

While you may be tempted to draw an analogy between the Great Dying and today’s warming climate, there are significant differences. For one, the greenhouse gases emitted during the Permian-Triassic events were far greater than anything humans have produced. Also, the volcanoes released carbon dioxide 252 million years ago at a rate much slower than humans emit it today.

“The amount of carbon released to the atmosphere per year from the Siberian traps, it was still 14 times lower than the rate we have at the moment,” Dr. Jurikova said. “So, the amount of carbon we’re burning per year at the moment is much higher than during the largest extinction. I mean, that’s incredible, right?”





No.32 article:
A Theater Duo’s ‘Last Gasp’ Doesn’t Look Like the End

As Split Britches, Peggy Shaw and Lois Weaver have made off-kilter theater for 40 years. Memory loss, and a pandemic, haven’t stopped their creating.

Back in March, Peggy Shaw and Lois Weaver, of the theater duo Split Britches, were in Britain, developing a new show, when Covid-19 exploded. It made more sense to stay put than to scamper back home to New York, which looked pretty scary at the time. Weaver, who has spent part of the year in London for nearly two decades, teaching performance at Queen Mary University, had a shared place there, but Shaw’s accommodations across town were an issue.

Luckily, neighbors of Weaver’s volunteered an empty house they had been planning to gut-renovate.

“There was electricity, heat, running water and one chair,” Weaver, 71, said, describing the London house in a recent video call from the Catskills. Recounting the experience, she said friends and fellow theater-makers had donated furniture, and someone who was moving to a nursing home gave them kitchen equipment. “We got her toaster, microwave, plates — which we brought back to New York because we love them so much,” Weaver said.

In that otherwise bare house, the two women — “Peggy and I are an off-again-on-again couple,” Weaver noted; their complicity during the joint interview was obvious — resumed work on “Last Gasp,” the new show they were meant to perform at New York’s La MaMa in April and London’s Barbican in June 2020.

The dates ended up being canceled, like all dates, but “Last Gasp WFH” (for Working From Home) was created and recorded on Zoom. Weaver directed and the two women handled the sound and lighting themselves, with the help of a remote team that included technical designers and a choreographer.

The resulting hybrid of theater, movement and video — Shaw, 76, called it a Zoom movie, or “Zoomie” — is not just one of the 40-year-old company’s best pieces, but among the most evocative art to emerge from the Covid era; it is streaming on the La MaMa website until Dec. 5.

The title, which came early in the process, proved premonitory.

“We were looking at the backdrop of climate change, the integration of our aging process, Peggy saying it was going to be her last show, the last gasp of democracy, maybe,” Weaver said. “Then we found ourselves in a pandemic, where you couldn’t breathe, and in a civil unrest that was symbolized by ‘I can’t breathe.’

“And then we found ourselves in a house that was also in its last gasp,” she added. “We had no idea these things would come together in that way when we named the show over a year ago.”

That is a lot to unpack, yet “Last Gasp WFH” is remarkably light on its feet. For starters, the 90-minute piece looks effortlessly striking because Weaver and Shaw position themselves perfectly within the frame, coming up with almost painterly compositions. “We have a spatial awareness that we obviously bring to our theater and performance,” Weaver said, “but maybe being able to see ourselves in the frame had something to do with it.”

The fleet, surprisingly entertaining movie is alternately playful, surreal, pointed and poignant, and its nonlinear scenes incorporate many of Split Britches’ calling cards: autobiography, sly humor, pop-culture references (Bill Withers to Beyoncé) and questioning of gender.

This makes Weaver’s matter-of-fact mention that the project would be Shaw’s last performance all the more bittersweet. Shaw has long been a singular presence on the American theater scene, a butch lesbian who has regularly explored her identity in such pieces as “Menopausal Gentleman.”

Then again, “Peggy has said this is her last show since we started working together 40 years ago,” Weaver said, laughing. “This is her coping mechanism.”

Yes, but what if she really means it now? “For whatever reason, if it’s the last one, I feel really happy that it exists in this form and that it’s manifested itself in this way,” Weaver said. “I feel really pleased with the way it is.”

Shaw, who was just off-camera, piped in: “We’ll make another movie.” (She and Weaver were calling from their Catskills house; they also each have a studio in Manhattan’s East Village.)

“Peggy, you can come and sit here,” Weaver reminded her, before reorienting the laptop so Shaw could be onscreen. “I knew this was going to happen,” she added dryly, clearly aware her charismatic, witty accomplice would not be able to remain quiet for long.

Shaw, who had a stroke in 2011 (a setback she explored in the solo show “Ruff”), can’t memorize lines anymore. In “Last Gasp WFH,” she wears big headphones to listen to the words Weaver feeds her during monologues.

There is no attempt to hide what’s going on.

“I couldn’t fit little headphones into my ears because I already have hearing aids,” Shaw said. “Johnnie Ray had a big hearing aid in the 1950s in order to perform,” she continued, referring to a partially deaf singer whom she name-checks in the piece.

“The other thing is, that was the only pair of headphones we had. Like, we just wore black [in the movie] because we didn’t have anything with us from the show, except the yellow slicker and the yellow boots, in case it rained or something.”

In scenes they shared, Weaver couldn’t also be reading out Shaw’s lines. So they scrawled them on paper and taped the pages to a wall.

“We were trying to act a scene we adapted from ‘Marriage Story,’” Weaver said, alluding to the Noah Baumbach film about a divorcing couple. “It’s such an iconic fight between two people, and the subject was the same one that we have: We have had affairs and fights about it. We have conflicts over the fact that Peggy gets awards and I don’t, even though we work together.”

In many ways, “Last Gasp WFH” feels like a culmination for Split Britches — even though it’s not in the company’s usual medium. “We know and trust our methods now,” Weaver explained. “And in this case, we had the opportunity to fine-tune them in ways that we don’t often get to fine-tune them on the stage. I don’t think we know how to do anything else.”





No.33 article:
France’s Major Literary Juries Award Prizes in a Year of Scandal

Seven years ago, the judges behind France’s second-biggest literary prize honored a pedophile writer, Gabriel Matzneff. Now, they have turned to a little-known female writer from a small publisher.

PARIS — In its first award since a pedophilia scandal revealed deep-rooted collusion within its ranks, one of France’s top literary juries avoided the appearance of any potential conflicts of interest on Monday by crowning the novel of a little-known female author from a small publishing house.

Judges of the Renaudot gave the prize for best novel to Marie-Hélène Lafon, an outsider of France’s clubby literary circles. Her book, “Histoire du fils,’’ was published by Buchet-Chastel, a company with an annual catalog of about 50 works and the first-time winner of a major award.

The jury of the Renaudot has been under intense scrutiny since members acknowledged rewarding the pedophile writer Gabriel Matzneff in the essay category in 2013 to help revive his career and cheer him up. Its fierce resistance to change has come to embody the tight grip of an established elite on France’s literary institutions.

This year, like many before it, the short list for the prize was made up of literary insiders whose novels were published by leading companies and whose ties to several of the jurors were widely known. So the choice of Ms. Lafon was a safe one for a jury girding itself for criticism.

“I’m aware that there are ethical stakes at work behind all this,’’ Ms. Lafon said after the award was announced over Zoom because of coronavirus restrictions. “The situation is perilous. We’re walking on a tightrope.’’

But the choice of Ms. Lafon’s novel was applauded as a recognition of literary quality by experts and literature fans on social media. The saga spans a century and looks at a family secret that the main character tries to unravel by reconstructing the genealogy of his family.

The novel is “a beautiful piece of work” from a writer whose rural background has long inspired her books, said Marie-Rose Guarnieri, a bookstore owner and a critic of France’s major literary juries, on which jurors usually serve for life. Two decades ago, Ms. Guarnieri established the Wepler, a literary prize with a jury that changes every year.

But Ms. Guarnieri said she did not believe the choice reflected a profound shift in the Renaudot’s outlook. Over the years, the jury has tried to deflect occasional criticism by rewarding an unknown author from a small publisher, she said.

“When they begin to realize that we can see how they work,” Ms. Guarnieri said, “and especially the big conflicts of interest that arise from this way of selecting books, they make a big swing in the other direction.’’

Reached by phone, Georges-Olivier Châteaureynaud, the president of the Renaudot, declined to comment.

Dominique Bona, the only woman among the Renaudot’s nine jurors and a member of the French Academy, told the Agence France-Presse that her jury had become a “scapegoat.’’ The jurors, she said, are “genuinely inspired by the love we all have for literature.’’

Following decades of tradition, the Renaudot announced its winner immediately after the Goncourt, France’s top prize, made its choice known.

The prize for best novel went to Hervé Le Tellier, a former journalist, for “L’Anomalie,” a science-fiction thriller that revolves around the double lives of passengers aboard a Paris-New York flight. It was published by France’s most prestigious publishing house, Gallimard, which has now captured 38 Goncourt awards since the creation of the prize in 1903.

Early this year, a tell-all book about Mr. Matzneff led to unsettling revelations about collusion inside the Renaudot jury. The writer’s editor, Christian Giudicelli, and friends — all members of the jury — awarded him the prize for best essay in 2013. All of the Renaudot’s current nine jurors were part of the jury that year.

Mr. Giudicelli has been questioned in an ongoing police investigation into Mr. Matzneff’s pedophilia and has drawn criticism for the role he played in furthering his friend’s career. Activists in the city of Vichy have pressed him to step down from a literary jury financed by the local government, where he has also long been a juror.

“As long as Mr. Giudicelli is not suspended, the city is officially considering suspending our financial participation in the prize,’’ Frédéric Aguilera, the mayor of Vichy, said in a phone interview Monday.

The spotlight on the Renaudot has also raised questions about the legitimacy of France’s other top prizes, including the Goncourt.

Jurors serve for life — or until age 80 at the Goncourt — and select prize winners in a process rife with conflicts of interests. None adhere to the strict standards of Britain’s Booker or the Pulitzer in the United States, whose juries change every year and whose jurors recuse themselves over potential conflicts of interest.

Still, differences exist among the top prizes, and the Renaudot suffers from the most potential conflicts of interests, with four of its nine current jurors working for publishers whose books were among award candidates this year.

The Goncourt is considered — in France at least — the cleanest jury. Alone among top prizes, the Goncourt has carried out reforms, in 2008, that barred jurors from working at a publishing company and created a mandatory retirement age of 80.

“What’s extraordinary is that a reform was necessary,’’ said Pierre Assouline, a writer and juror on the Goncourt since 2012. “A conflict of interest in the world of business is condemned right away. But not here.’’

The Renaudot never considered picking up any of the Goncourt’s changes, longtime jurors said. Over the past 20 years, potential conflicts of interest have only increased at the jury.

From 2010 to 2019, on average, nearly three of the Renaudot jurors shared publishing ties with a laureate for the novel category — up from barely one between 2000 and 2009, according to an analysis by The New York Times.

Though the Goncourt’s reforms were short of the standards at the Booker or Pulitzer, they had an immediate impact on the composition of the prize winners. Before the overhaul, prizes were monopolized by big publishers with strong ties to the Goncourt jurors.

Actes Sud, once a small publisher that — on principle — has long refused to allow its editors to serve on juries, had been almost completely shut out of the big awards for decades. But since the 2008 reforms, Actes Sud has scooped up four Goncourt prizes, including in 2012 for Jérôme Ferrari’s novel, “The Sermon on the Fall of Rome.’’

The financial windfall was immediate: Only 9,700 copies had been sold before the novel made the Goncourt’s first list. Inclusion on the list helped sales rise to 52,000, and then they skyrocketed to 370,000 after the award.

“It’s just transformed into an easy Christmas present,’’ Mr. Ferrari said in a recent interview, referring to the popularity of prize-winning books as holiday gifts.

Other top juries, like the Femina, debated emulating the Goncourt, but ultimately decided against any change, said Christine Jordis, a Femina juror since 1996 and a longtime editor and professional reader at Gallimard.

Ms. Jordis said she had led the fight against barring jurors from working at publishing companies, believing that her years as an editor gave her expertise.





No.34 article:
Corrections: Dec. 1, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Dec. 1, 2020.

An article on Saturday about down-ballot losses for Democrats in the 2020 U.S. election misstated the name of a G.O.P. group. It is the Republican State Leadership Committee, not the Republican Legislative Leadership Committee.

An article on Wednesday about the clinical trial results of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine misstated how many clinical trial protocols AstraZeneca and Oxford have made public. They have released protocols for the trials in Britain and in the U.S., not only for the U.S. trials.

An article on Sunday about teaching during the pandemic misstated the shape of students’ desks at Walter P. Carter Elementary/Middle School in Baltimore. They are trapezoidal, not triangular, as the students there undoubtedly learn in geometry.

An article on Monday about struggling drivers working for food delivery apps misstated New York City’s current unemployment rate. The most recent rate, from October, is 13.2 percent, not 14.1 percent.

An article on Monday about online competition among luxury brands misstated the ownership of the watch brand Patek Philippe. It is owned by the Stern family, not by Richemont.

An article on Sunday about the first woman to play football in a Power 5 conference game misidentified the first woman to score in a Division I football game. It was Ashley Martin of Jacksonville State in the Football Championship Subdivision, not Katie Hnida of New Mexico, who was the first woman to score in the Football Bowl Subdivision.

An art review on Friday about Cecily Brown’s gallery show misstated the phone number for the Paula Cooper Gallery. It is (212)255-1105, not (212)255-1155.

A music review on Friday of Megan Thee Stallion’s album “Good News” misidentified the home of the duo City Girls. They are from Miami, not Los Angeles.

An obituary on Thursday about the Argentine soccer star Diego Maradona misstated the round of the 1990 World Cup in which he scored the only goal in a win against Brazil. It was the round of 16, not the quarterfinals.

A headline with an obituary about the recording engineer Bruce Swedien misstated his age. As the obituary correctly noted, he was 86, not 66.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.35 article:
Angry Farmers Choke India’s Capital in Giant Demonstrations

Tens of thousands have arrived in tractors and trailers, many traveling hundreds of miles, to block roads into New Delhi and protest recently passed pro-market agricultural policies.

NEW DELHI — Mewa Singh said he wasn’t going anywhere.

On Monday afternoon, Mr. Singh, who farms a small plot of land in northern India, sat in the back of a mud-splattered farm trailer, heaps of rice, lentils, fresh garlic and other spices piled around him, blocking one of the main arteries into India’s capital.

Part of an army of thousands of angry farmers who have encircled New Delhi, Mr. Singh vowed to keep protesting for however long it takes for India’s government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to reverse recently passed pro-market agricultural policies.

“Our land is our mother,” said Mr. Singh, growing emotional as he talked about the new policies, which he saw as part of an effort to hand farmers’ land over to big business. “It was passed on to us from our parents, who got it from their parents, and now Modi wants to acquire it and give it away to his rich friends.”

Even though Mr. Modi’s political party firmly controls the government, the growing farmers’ rebellion seems to have rattled his administration. In India, more than 60 percent of the population depends on agriculture to make a living. Farmers are a huge political constituency.

On Sunday, Mr. Modi’s top lieutenants hastily called a late-night meeting, and they have told the farmers that they were willing to negotiate.

But the crisis, which has snarled traffic leading into New Delhi for miles and cast a sense of uncertainty over the capital, has become a classic standoff of who lays down their arms first.

The Modi administration has indicated that it will not talk to the protesting farmers unless they move to a fairground on New Delhi’s outskirts and stop blocking the highways.

But the farmers have said that they will not move their tractors or trailers until negotiations start. They are digging in, resupplying themselves with food, fuel, firewood and medical supplies to stay put for weeks.

“Now we have leverage,” said Ramandeep Singh Mann, a farmers’ rights activist, who gazed across the protest zone on Monday afternoon with a look of pride. “If we go to those fairgrounds, we will lose it.”

Many of the farmers, like Mr. Singh and Mr. Mann, hail from Punjab state, and they’re so furious at Mr. Modi that they have spent the past four days chugging hundreds of miles across northern India in their tractors, pulling concrete police barriers out of their way, weathering tear gas and water cannons, and curling up in blankets during the cold nights in the back of their trailers parked end to end for several miles.

The border of New Delhi and the neighboring state of Haryana, where countless motorists flow through every day, now resembles a siege.

Bands of farmers kept marching in on Monday carrying the colored banners of their farmers’ unions hoisted on long wooden poles like an 18th-century army stepping onto a battlefield.

The field kitchens that had been set up to sustain the protesters were of a stunning scale and only growing. Around noon, a bunch of older men with long beards and thick hands scooped onions into an enormous steel pot the size of a bathtub, preparing lunch.

Many farmers said the new rules, which the Modi administration pushed through Parliament in September, are the beginning of the end of a decades-old system that had guaranteed minimum prices for certain crops. They allow farmers greater freedom to sell their produce outside state-controlled agricultural markets, but they also curtail farmers’ ability to challenge disputes in courts.

While the Modi administration has said that India’s farm policies need to be reformed to attract more investment, farmers say they were never consulted on the changes.

Several who were interviewed on Monday spoke of their fear of being swallowed up by corporate titans such as Mukesh D. Ambani, India’s richest man, and Gautam Adani, who is not far behind, both known to be close to Mr. Modi.

Mr. Modi has tried to calm things down, saying in a radio address on Sunday that the new policies “opened the doors to new possibilities” for farmers.

Farmers have been opposed to the changes from the very beginning. They see the laws as an attack on their identity and a means to fundamentally alter the way they have been farming for generations. The first protests started in July, in Haryana and in Punjab.

Many economists and agricultural experts support the farmers’ demand for a minimum assured price for their crops.

“There is no evidence in the world where the market price has benefited farmers,” said Devinder Sharma, an independent agricultural expert and author based in the northern city of Chandigarh.

On Monday, squads of riot police and paramilitary officers carrying assault rifles huddled behind barricades on the Delhi side of the border, but their orders were not to intervene, for the moment. They simply sat on a road divider, watching the crowd build.

The farmers’ original plan had been to march on the center of New Delhi, the seat of Mr. Modi’s power, and many seemed disappointed that they had been prevented from doing that.

“When we started our march, we felt we were going to our capital,” said Amrinder Singh, a young farmer who was wearing an Adidas tracksuit. “But they treated us like terrorists.”

Some members of Mr. Modi’s political party and their allies in right-wing news channels have branded the protesting farmers “anti-national,” an increasingly common swipe at anyone who criticizes the Modi government.

This was the same charge many of Mr. Modi’s supporters levied against protesters who spoke out last year and earlier this year against a contentious new citizenship law that blatantly discriminated against Muslims. Those protests were much bigger and spread across the country.

But the scene at Delhi’s borders, where tens of thousands of farmers and their supporters have been demonstrating at several road junctions, resembled the citizenship protests in spirit: the combative anti-Modi speeches, the growing crowds and the countless volunteers passing out food to keep things going.

Mewa Singh, 57, had traveled to Delhi in the back of a bumpy trailer along with two dozen men from his village in Punjab. They all insisted that they were just trying to exercise their democratic voice.

“I’m not going to say this isn’t tough, it is tough,” Mr. Singh said.

The nights were cold, he said, and he was losing money every day by not working on his small wheat farm.

“But if a child doesn’t cry,” he said, “how will his mother know he’s hungry?”





No.36 article:
Moderna Applies for Emergency F.D.A. Approval for Its Coronavirus Vaccine

The first shots could be given as early as Dec. 21, if authorization is granted.

The drugmaker Moderna announced highly encouraging results on Monday, saying that complete data from a large study show its coronavirus vaccine to be 94.1 percent effective, a finding that confirms earlier estimates.

The company said that it applied on Monday to the Food and Drug Administration to authorize the vaccine for emergency use, and that if approved, injections for Americans could begin as early as Dec. 21.

The hopeful news arrives at a particularly grim moment in the U.S. health crisis. Coronavirus cases have surged and overwhelmed hospitals in some regions, and health officials have warned that the numbers may grow even worse in the coming weeks because of travel and gatherings for Thanksgiving.

The new data from Moderna show that its study of 30,000 people has met the scientific criteria needed to determine whether the vaccine works. The findings from the full set of data match an analysis of interim data released on Nov. 16 that found the vaccine to be 94.5 percent effective.

The study also showed that the vaccine was 100 percent effective at preventing severe disease from the coronavirus. The product was developed in collaboration with government researchers from the Vaccine Research Center at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, said in an interview that the company was “on track” to produce 20 million doses by the end of December, and from 500 million to a billion in 2021. Each person requires two doses, administered a month apart, so 20 million doses will be enough for 10 million people.

Moderna is the second vaccine maker to apply for emergency use authorization; Pfizer submitted its application on Nov. 20. Pfizer has said it can produce up to 50 million doses this year, with about half going to the United States. Its vaccine also requires two doses per person.

The first shots of the two vaccines are likely to go to certain groups, including health care workers, essential workers like police officers, people in other critical industries, and employees and residents in nursing homes. More than 100,000 Covid deaths have occurred in U.S. nursing homes and other long-term care centers.

On Tuesday, a panel of advisers to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will meet to determine how to allocate initial supplies of vaccine.

“Be thinking people in nursing homes, the most vulnerable, be thinking health care workers who are on the front lines,” Alex M. Azar II, the secretary for health and human services, said on the CBS program “This Morning” on Monday.

He said the C.D.C. advisers would base their recommendations on the latest data on virus cases across the country. Asked about the role of states in the distribution process, he said that doses would be shipped out through normal vaccine distribution systems, and governors would be “like air traffic controllers,” determining which hospitals or pharmacies receive shipments.

Although governors will determine which groups are prioritized, he said he hoped that they will follow the federal recommendations. He added that he would speak to governors on Monday afternoon with Vice President Mike Pence. In response to a question about how officials could guard against people using money or connections to jump the proverbial line, Mr. Azar vowed to “call out any inequities or injustices that we see.”

The White House moved quickly to take credit for the progress on vaccines. “President Trump’s Operation Warp Speed is rapidly advancing on a trajectory of success to save millions of American lives — five times faster than any other vaccine in history,” Michael Bars, a spokesman for Mr. Trump, said in a statement.

Over all, about 13.3 million Americans have contracted the virus, and more than 265,900 have died. In November alone, there were more than four million new cases and 25,500 deaths in the United States. Worldwide, there have been nearly 62 million cases and almost 1.5 million deaths.

More than 70 coronavirus vaccines are being developed around the world, including 11 that, like Pfizer’s and Moderna’s vaccines, are in large-scale trials to gauge effectiveness.

One of those is made by AstraZeneca, which announced positive but puzzling preliminary results on Nov. 23: Its vaccine was 90 percent effective in people who received a half dose and then a full one, but 62 percent effective in those who received two full doses. Researchers are waiting for more data.

Moderna’s application for emergency use authorization included data from its Phase 3 study of 30,000 people. The application, several hundred pages long, also included several thousand pages of additional data.

F.D.A. scientists will examine the information, and the application is likely to undergo a final review on Dec. 17 by a panel of expert advisers to the agency, Mr. Bancel said, adding that he expected the advisers to make a decision within 24 to 72 hours. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of its advisory panels.

Officials at Operation Warp Speed, the government’s program to accelerate vaccine development, have said vaccinations could begin within 24 hours after the F.D.A. grants authorization.

Mr. Bancel said that Moderna had not yet begun shipping vaccines across the country, and that it would not do so until the emergency authorization was granted.

The government has arranged to buy vaccines from both Moderna and Pfizer and to provide it to the public free of charge. Moderna has received a commitment of $955 million from the U.S. government’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for research and development of its vaccine, and the United States has committed up to $1.525 billion to buy 100 million doses.

Shares of Moderna’s stock surged on Monday from the news, by 20 percent, to nearly $153 a share.

Both Moderna’s and Pfizer’s vaccines use a synthetic form of genetic material from the coronavirus called messenger RNA, or mRNA, to program a person’s cells to make many copies of a part of the virus. That viral fragment sets off alarms in the immune system and trains it to recognize and attack the real virus if it tries to invade.

No mRNA vaccine has reached the market before, and the candidates from Pfizer and Moderna have faced considerable skepticism from scientists and a wary public.

But the strong results from both vaccines have begun to quash the doubts.

So far, neither vaccine has had serious side effects, but many recipients have had headaches, mild fevers, fatigue, joint and muscle aches, and sore arms for a day or two.

Of the 30,000 people in the Moderna study, half were vaccinated and half received placebo shots of salt water; neither the participants nor their doctors knew who got what. Then, researchers monitored the participants to see who contracted the coronavirus and watched for side effects.

To determine statistically whether the vaccine was effective, a total of 151 cases of Covid-19 were needed.

Because the coronavirus has been surging in the United States, Moderna wound up with 196 cases — 185 in the placebo group, and 11 in the vaccinated group, meaning that the vaccine was 94.1 percent effective at preventing Covid-19.

The 196 people who got sick with Covid-19 reflected the diversity of Moderna’s volunteers: Thirty-three were 65 or older. The group also included 29 Hispanic volunteers, six Black participants, four Asian Americans and three multiracial people. The efficacy and safety appeared the same in all of the subgroups and by gender, Moderna said in its announcement.

Thirty participants had severe cases, all in the placebo group. One died.

Mr. Bancel said he considered the statistics about prevention of severe disease the most important data from the study.

“This is why I think this vaccine is going to be a game-changer,” he said. The vaccine will reduce hospitalizations and deaths, he added, “and I hope get this country back to its pre-pandemic state.”

Moderna said it was also seeking authorization to market its vaccine in Europe, Canada, Britain, Israel and Singapore.





No.37 article:
There’s Another Runoff in Georgia, and the Winner Gets a Month in Congress

The winner of Tuesday’s runoff will have the distinction of succeeding John Lewis, a giant of the civil rights era, and serving what would have been the final days of his 17th term in Congress.

ATLANTA — Kwanza Hall and Robert M. Franklin Jr. have been campaigning for months, planting signs in grassy medians along busy Atlanta roadways and onto windows of popular brunch spots.

They have distributed hand sanitizer, met with the men of Omega Psi Phi and vigorously debated each other. In a livestreamed discussion, they delved into ambitious ideas for conquering intractable problems — limited access to health care, inequality in the criminal justice system and attacks on voting rights.

Politics has consumed much of Georgia in recent weeks. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won the state — a feat no Democrat had managed in nearly three decades, and one confirmed by a hand audit of ballots — and two high-stakes runoffs in January will determine which party controls the Senate.

Well, this is the other runoff, one mostly notable for the short turn the winner will have in Congress. Very short. All told, not even a month in the House.

A peculiar set of circumstances has created a contest with stakes that could not be much lower. Mr. Hall and Dr. Franklin, both Democrats, are competing in a runoff on Tuesday in a reliably Democratic district for a term that ends at noon on Jan. 3. And there is no chance of an extension for the winner, as his successor was elected this month.

Still, the candidates have argued that their bids are anything but inconsequential. The victor will serve what would have been the final days of John Lewis’s 17th term representing Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District. Mr. Lewis, the pioneering civil rights leader, died on July 17.

“These are the days he earned,” Dr. Franklin, a scholar of theology and former president of Morehouse College, said outside a library before he cast his ballot. “For me, that’s the honor and the privilege.”

Dr. Franklin and Mr. Hall, a former Atlanta city councilman, advanced to a runoff after a special election in September, emerging from a mixed-party pack that included five Democrats, one independent and a Libertarian.

“It matters to me,” Mr. Hall said, “because we’ve had no representation since July 17.”

The district, which encompasses parts of Atlanta and its surrounding suburbs, is an economic and cultural hub that has long drawn African-Americans from across the South with possibilities for upward mobility and relief from the burdens of racial hostility in the places they left behind.

But it is also an area that has been reminded of the ways that the aspirations for Atlanta’s promise have fallen short of reality.

Gentrification has spread rapidly, shoving out longtime Black residents. And in June, Rayshard Brooks, an African-American man, was killed by a city police officer, setting off protests that grew tense and violent and underscored that, despite its reputation, Atlanta was anything but immune to the pernicious and enduring consequences of racial inequality.

After Mr. Lewis’s death, Democratic Party officials had to rush to meet a state deadline to replace his name on the November ballot, putting out a call for applications and landing on Nikema Williams, a state senator.

Party officials effectively handed Ms. Williams a ticket to Congress. Mr. Lewis, a Democrat, had won all but one of his re-election bids with more than 70 percent of the vote. Ms. Williams won with 85 percent of the vote, and she has already been elected as president of the incoming freshman class of Democrats.

Mr. Hall and Dr. Franklin are involved in a separate process that began when Gov. Brian Kemp called for a special election to serve the remainder of Mr. Lewis’s term. Ms. Williams declined to participate, and no candidate cleared the 50 percent hurdle in the September election, forcing the runoff. (Just over 31,000 people cast ballots.)

The campaign might seem like a puzzling endeavor. Just the span between the special election and the runoff on Tuesday is more than twice as long as the amount of time the victor will have in Congress.

Even so, the candidates have made serious investments of time and money. They have gathered endorsements from elected officials, activists and local business leaders. While donations are nowhere near the prodigious sums the heated Senate races have brought in, they have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars between them.

Dr. Franklin hired a staff of eight and has kept a steady schedule of virtual events, like joining a gathering of interfaith leaders.

Mr. Hall has run a leaner operation. He is his own communications director. The phone number posted on his campaign’s Facebook page rings on his cellphone.

He keeps his face covered and has swapped handshakes for elbow bumps during the pandemic, but he still prefers pounding the pavement. “I’m running for Congress,” he told one person after another as he handed out fliers at a shopping center.

Both men have lofty notions about what they could accomplish in office.

Dr. Franklin sees a bully pulpit, a platform for him as a minister and professor of moral leadership at Emory University to offer a message of clarity in a turbulent time. And on what would be his last day in office, a Sunday, he said, he would leave with a benediction for Mr. Lewis and his work.

Mr. Hall envisions leaping in with an aggressive agenda: working to decriminalize marijuana, expunge the records of formerly incarcerated people, create economic opportunity.

“I can do the equivalent of what I did in 15 years — I can do it in 15 days,” he said, referring to his years on the Atlanta City Council. “I know what not to waste my time on. I know how to be effective.”

The history of Congress is dotted with members whose terms were best measured in days. For the most part, any achievements recorded by history were largely symbolic.

In fact, the first woman to serve in the Senate came from Georgia: Rebecca Latimer Felton, an 87-year-old writer and activist who was appointed in 1922 after her predecessor died, served one day and gave one speech. In it, she shared her vision of a Senate where more women would serve: “You will get ability, you will get integrity of purpose, you will get exalted patriotism, and you will get unstinted usefulness.”

In all likelihood, the experience for Mr. Hall or Dr. Franklin will be less grand or productive: votes on some significant legislation, including bills on government funding, and opportunities to speak on the House floor.

“It’s going to be hard to get anything done in a short period of time, especially in this short period of time,” said Michael Crespin, the director of the Carl Albert Congressional Research and Studies Center at the University of Oklahoma.

There is no shortage of attention being paid to Georgia politics at the moment, but this campaign has stood little chance of competing against recounted ballots, Senate runoffs, intraparty feuding among Georgia Republicans and a Democrat taking the state in a presidential race for the first time since 1992.

It does not help that the campaign was part of a tangle of procedures after Mr. Lewis’s death that left voters confused.

Mr. Lewis had an almost singular presence in Atlanta, embraced as a link to connect a new generation of Black Lives Matter activists to the civil rights movement that was rooted in the city.

Mr. Hall, 49, said he was well-suited to carrying on that legacy even though he thought he was done with politics. His last campaign had been a failed mayoral bid in 2017. He had shifted to business, working in economic development and consulting.

But around the time of Mr. Lewis’s death, a coronavirus diagnosis confined Mr. Hall to his bed and forced him to contemplate the future.

On a recent morning, as he joined volunteers packing boxes with hand sanitizer and canned goods, he flipped through photographs on his phone. They were yellowing pictures of his father, Leon W. Hall, a civil rights activist and one of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s youngest lieutenants.

In one, his father embraced Mr. Lewis. Another one made him tear up; it showed his father being dragged by a police officer during a demonstration. Those photographs offered the nudge he needed. “You find yourself exactly where you are supposed to be,” he said.

Dr. Franklin, 66, said he waited to see who else might run, like Shirley Franklin, the former mayor of Atlanta, or Andrew Young, who held the seat before Mr. Lewis and who had also been mayor.

“OK,” he decided, “I need to offer my leadership.”

No matter the result, he said, the campaign could be a prelude to a new chapter of holding elected office or perhaps serving as an ambassador.

“I am by no means equal to the task,” he said of trying to fill the void left by Mr. Lewis, “but I think I could contribute something, even if it is for just two weeks.”





No.38 article:
Sotheby’s and Christie’s Look to Luxury as a Coronavirus Antidote

The world’s two biggest auction houses are selling more watches, jewelry and handbags, but art’s still where the money is.

LONDON — Twenty years ‌ago, ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌and‌ ‌Christie’s made money by auctioning‌ ‌art. ‌And‌ ‌that‌ ‌was‌ ‌about‌ ‌it. ‌Now, ‌in‌ ‌a‌ ‌process‌ ‌fast-forwarded‌ ‌by‌ ‌the‌ ‌coronavirus pandemic, ‌technology‌ ‌is‌ ‌transforming‌ ‌these‌ ‌venerable‌ ‌names‌ ‌into‌ ‌very‌ ‌different-looking‌ businesses. ‌Luxury‌ ‌is‌ ‌making that ‌difference. ‌ ‌

Sotheby’s, ‌under‌ ‌the‌ ‌tech-savvy‌ ‌ownership‌ ‌of‌ ‌the‌ ‌French-Israeli‌ ‌telecoms‌ ‌magnate‌ ‌‌Patrick‌ ‌Drahi‌, who‌ ‌who‌ ‌last‌ ‌year‌ ‌‌borrowed‌ ‌$1.1‌ ‌billion‌‌ ‌to‌ ‌finance‌ ‌the‌ ‌acquisition, ‌‌‌‌said‌ ‌in‌ ‌December‌ 2019 ‌that‌ ‌‌‌it would restructure itself‌‌ ‌into‌ ‌two‌ ‌“equally‌ ‌important”‌ ‌global‌ ‌divisions‌: one for ‌fine‌ ‌arts‌ ‌and another for‌ luxury, art‌ ‌and‌ objects. ‌Items‌ ‌such‌ ‌as‌ ‌watches‌ ‌and‌ ‌jewelry‌ ‌were‌ ‌identified‌ ‌as‌ ‌“key‌ ‌growth‌ ‌areas.”

Sotheby’s‌ ‌has‌ ‌had‌ ‌to‌ ‌catch‌ ‌up on ‌its‌ ‌rival‌ ‌Christie’s, ‌which has been playing at the luxury game since the early 2010s. Owned‌ ‌by‌ ‌the French‌ ‌billionaire‌ art ‌collector‌ ‌François‌ ‌Pinault, who also founded the ‌luxury‌ ‌goods‌ ‌group ‌Kering, ‌Christie’s introduced ‌online-only ‌sales‌ ‌of‌ ‌designer ‌handbags in 2012, and these particularly appealed to Asian buyers. Five ‌years‌ ‌later, ‌a‌ ‌white‌ ‌crocodile‌ ‌Hermès‌ ‌Birkin‌ ‌sold‌ ‌at‌ ‌a‌ ‌live‌ ‌auction‌ ‌in‌ ‌Hong‌ ‌Kong‌ ‌for‌ ‌a‌ ‌‌record $380,000‌.

When‌ the coronavirus pandemic‌ ‌shut‌ ‌down‌ ‌live‌ ‌auctions, ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌swung‌ ‌into‌ ‌digital‌ ‌overdrive. ‌So‌ ‌far‌ ‌this‌ ‌year, ‌the‌ ‌company‌ ‌has‌ ‌held‌ ‌some‌ ‌320‌ ‌online ‌sales ‌of‌ ‌art‌ ‌and‌ ‌luxury items, ‌more‌ ‌than‌ three‌ ‌times‌ ‌the‌ ‌number‌ ‌held‌ ‌during‌ ‌the‌ ‌equivalent‌ ‌period‌ ‌in‌ ‌2019. ‌

These‌ ‌have‌ ‌raised‌ ‌$425‌ ‌million, ‌as‌ ‌against‌ ‌$60‌ ‌million‌ ‌for‌ ‌the‌ ‌same‌ ‌period‌ ‌last‌ ‌year, ‌according‌ ‌to‌ ‌Mitzi‌ ‌Mina, ‌the‌ ‌company’s‌ ‌London-based‌ ‌head‌ ‌of‌ ‌press. ‌‌In‌ ‌addition, ‌plush‌ ‌new‌ ‌retail‌ ‌spaces, where wealthy clients can buy high-end art and design straight from the showroom, ‌have‌ ‌been‌ ‌opened‌ ‌in‌ ‌London, ‌the‌ ‌Hamptons‌ ‌and‌ ‌Palm‌ ‌Beach. ‌‌

According‌ ‌to‌ ‌Wendy‌ ‌Cromwell, ‌a‌ ‌New‌ ‌York-based‌ ‌art‌ ‌adviser‌ and former ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌employee who follows the company closely, ‌the‌ ‌auction‌ ‌house’s‌ ‌crucial‌ ‌gear shift‌ ‌into‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌was‌ ‌made‌ ‌by‌ ‌Tad‌ ‌Smith, its‌ ‌president‌ ‌and‌ ‌chief‌ ‌executive‌ ‌from‌ ‌2015‌ ‌to‌ ‌2019. Last‌ ‌year, ‌before ‌the‌ ‌pandemic, ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌reported‌ ‌a‌ ‌$71.2‌ ‌million‌ ‌loss‌ (Christie’s, which is privately owned, does not publish equivalent annual profits or losses). ‌

‌“Margins‌ ‌were‌ ‌so‌ ‌eroded‌ ‌on‌ ‌the‌ ‌top‌ ‌lots‌ ‌that‌ ‌they‌ ‌weren’t‌ ‌making‌ ‌enough‌ ‌money,” ‌said‌ ‌Ms. ‌Cromwell. ‌“So‌ ‌Tad ‌decided‌ ‌to‌ ‌go‌ ‌into‌ ‌e-commerce. ‌It‌ ‌was‌ ‌a‌ ‌smart‌ ‌way‌ ‌to‌ ‌scale‌ ‌the‌ ‌business‌ ‌by‌ ‌offering‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌at‌ ‌all‌ ‌price‌ ‌points, ‌from‌ ‌watches, ‌to‌ ‌sneakers‌ ‌to‌ ‌fine‌ ‌art.”

In 2019, ‌worldwide‌ ‌auction‌ ‌sales‌ of art and antiques ‌raised ‌$17.9 ‌billion, ‌down‌ ‌7‌ ‌percent‌ ‌on‌ ‌the‌ ‌previous‌ ‌year, ‌according‌ ‌to‌ ‌data‌ ‌provided‌ ‌by‌ ‌Rachel‌ ‌Pownall, ‌a professor‌ ‌of‌ ‌art‌ ‌and‌ ‌finance‌ ‌at‌ ‌Maastricht‌ ‌University‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌Netherlands. The‌ ‌global‌ ‌market‌ ‌for‌ ‌secondhand‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌goods‌ like ‌jewelry‌ ‌and‌ ‌watches‌ was‌ ‌valued‌ ‌at‌ ‌about‌ ‌21‌ ‌billion‌ ‌euros, ‌or‌ ‌about‌ ‌$23‌ ‌billion, ‌growing‌ ‌at‌ ‌8‌ ‌per‌ ‌cent‌ ‌a‌ ‌year, ‌according‌ ‌to‌ ‌‌a‌ ‌report‌‌ ‌published‌ ‌in‌ ‌September‌ ‌by‌ ‌Boston‌ ‌Consulting‌ ‌Group. ‌

So the auction‌ ‌houses’‌ ‌move‌ ‌into‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌appears‌ ‌to‌ ‌be‌ ‌a‌ ‌financial‌ ‌no-brainer. ‌But‌ ‌are‌ ‌sales‌ ‌of‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌goods‌ actually ‌increasing ‌revenues?

‌Detailed‌ ‌analysis‌ ‌of‌ ‌sales‌ ‌figures‌ ‌during‌ ‌this‌ ‌most‌ ‌challenging‌ ‌of‌ ‌years, ‌conducted‌ ‌by‌ ‌the‌ ‌London-based‌ ‌art‌ ‌market‌ ‌research‌ ‌company‌ ‌‌Pi-eX‌, ‌shows‌ ‌that‌ ‌as‌ ‌of‌ ‌Nov. ‌20, ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌had‌ ‌held‌ ‌160‌ ‌specialist live and online auctions ‌of‌ ‌watches, ‌jewelry‌ ‌and‌ ‌handbags, ‌as against 48 ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌same‌ ‌period‌ ‌in‌ ‌2019. ‌Yet‌ ‌revenues‌ ‌of‌ ‌$339‌ ‌million‌ ‌were‌ ‌up‌ ‌just‌ ‌4‌ ‌percent. ‌Christie’s‌ ‌has so far held‌ ‌a‌ ‌less‌ ‌aggressively‌ ‌expanded‌ ‌roster‌ ‌of‌ ‌38‌ ‌equivalent sales, ‌which‌ ‌raised‌ ‌$251‌ ‌million, ‌down‌ ‌42‌ ‌percent from last year, ‌according‌ ‌to‌ ‌Pi-eX. ‌ ‌

‌“The‌ ‌auction‌ ‌houses‌ ‌are‌ ‌scaling‌ ‌in‌ ‌terms‌ ‌of‌ ‌the‌ ‌number‌ ‌of‌ ‌auctions, ‌but‌ ‌not‌ ‌yet‌ ‌money,” ‌said‌ ‌Christine‌ ‌Bourron, ‌Pi-eX’s chief executive.

Ms. Bourron pointed out that many of these proliferating luxury sales contained just a few lots. A record-breaking ‌$560,000‌ ‌pair‌ ‌of‌ ‌‌Michael‌ ‌Jordan‌‌ ‌sneakers‌, for instance, was the only item in a Sotheby’s online auction in May. By preserving luxury items’ aura of exclusivity and authenticity, the auction houses make it more difficult to increase revenues, Ms. Bourron said. “They’re‌ ‌unable‌ ‌to‌ ‌do‌ ‌it‌ ‌by‌ ‌increasing‌ ‌volume.” ‌

‌But there is another, more compelling reason that ‌luxury ‌has‌ ‌such‌ ‌a‌ ‌hold‌ ‌over‌ ‌auction‌ ‌house‌ ‌executives’‌ ‌thinking.

‌“Art‌ ‌and‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌can‌ ‌coexist‌ ‌and‌ ‌complement‌ ‌each‌ ‌other‌ ‌very‌ ‌nicely,”‌ ‌said‌ ‌Josh‌ ‌Pullan,‌ ‌the managing‌ ‌director‌ ‌of‌ ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌global‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌division.‌ ‌“Luxury‌ ‌is‌ ‌a‌ ‌great‌ ‌entry‌ ‌point‌,” he added. Buyers were “opening ‌their‌ ‌minds‌ ‌to‌ ‌a‌ ‌broader‌ ‌range‌ ‌of‌ collecting ‌categories,” but the 276 year-old auction house was not about to become a luxury superstore. “Fine art is what Sotheby’s is best known for, and that’s not going to change,” he said.

Ms. Mina, Sotheby’s‌ London-based head of press, ‌said that‌ ‌so‌ ‌far‌ ‌42‌ ‌percent‌ ‌of‌ ‌the‌ ‌bidders‌ ‌at‌ ‌its‌ ‌2020‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌sales‌ ‌have‌ ‌been‌ ‌new. Fine art generates more than 85 percent of the auction house’s annual turnover. ‌

If‌ ‌a‌ ‌new‌ ‌client‌ ‌can‌ ‌afford‌ ‌to‌ ‌pay‌ ‌$10,000‌ ‌for‌ ‌a‌ ‌pre-owned‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌item such as a handbag, ‌they ‌might‌ ‌eventually‌ ‌gain‌ ‌the‌ ‌confidence‌ ‌to‌ ‌spend‌ ‌$100,000‌ ‌or‌ ‌even‌ ‌$1‌ ‌million‌ ‌at‌ ‌an‌ ‌art‌ ‌auction, ‌where‌ ‌these‌ centuries-old companies‌ ‌have always made ‌their‌ ‌biggest, brand-enhancing sales.

‌“Now‌ ‌is‌ ‌the‌ ‌best‌ ‌time‌ ‌for‌ ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌to‌ ‌affirm‌ ‌its‌ ‌position‌ ‌as‌ ‌a‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌retailer,” said Kelly‌ ‌Meng‌ ‌Parnwell, ‌‌a lecturer in ‌luxury‌ ‌brand‌ ‌management‌ ‌at‌ ‌Goldsmiths, University of London. “Luxury‌ ‌resale‌ ‌has‌ ‌become‌ ‌a‌ ‌big‌ ‌trend‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌market, ‌but‌ ‌I‌ ‌understand‌ ‌‌that‌‌ ‌Sotheby’s‌ ‌doesn’t‌ ‌want‌ ‌to‌ ‌lose‌ ‌any‌ ‌of‌ ‌its‌ ‌heritage,” she said. “‌They‌ ‌need‌ ‌to‌ ‌‌balance‌‌ ‌their‌ ‌heritage‌ ‌and‌ ‌luxury‌ ‌positions.”





No.39 article:
‘Bleak Friday’ for Stores as Pandemic Pushes Holiday Shopping Online

Foot traffic was down considerably and internet sales surged during a holiday weekend altered by the coronavirus.

The 2020 edition of Black Friday did not offer the usual scenes of bustling stores and shoppers lined up outside discount chains and electronics retailers. Instead, most people bought online, if they bought at all.

Crowds at malls and city shopping districts were relatively sparse over the holiday weekend in the face of rising coronavirus cases and warnings from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to avoid large groups. Major chains closed on Thanksgiving, after years of being open that day. And many Americans did their shopping before the weekend even began, drawn by sales that began in October.

Analysts at Morgan Stanley estimated that retailers’ overall Black Friday sales fell 20 percent from last year, based on early reports of drops in store foot traffic and increases in online sales. Consumers spent $9 billion online on Friday, a 21.6 increase from last year and the second-biggest figure for online retailers ever, according to Adobe Analytics, which scans 80 percent of online transactions across the top 100 U.S. web retailers. The firm said online sales rose to $23.5 billion in the four-day Thanksgiving-to-Sunday period, up 23 percent from last year.

“This wasn’t a Black Friday, it was a bleak Friday in stores,” said David Bassuk, global co-head of the retail practice at AlixPartners, a consulting firm. “It is such a stark contrast to past years. The stores were really ghost towns.”

The early results from the weekend, which has traditionally kicked off holiday shopping in the United States, show how the season is being upended by the pandemic. Major retailers started offering deals well before Halloween, a shift that was amplified by Amazon’s decision to hold its annual Prime Day event in the middle of October. Consumers have been encouraged to shop early to avoid shipping delays. Chains have replicated deals once limited to stores on their websites and canceled visits with Santa Claus to minimize crowds.

Americans were already spending online before the pandemic, but the crisis has accelerated the trend. About 59 percent of shoppers had started their holiday shopping by early November this year, the National Retail Federation said. Shopper foot traffic declined 52 percent on Friday, according to data from Sensormatic Solutions.

“The ability to pull the holiday forward may linger with us,” said Simeon Siegel, a retail analyst at BMO Capital Markets. “It’s been a long time since Black Friday was simply three hours in the morning on Friday. Black Friday was already stretched into early November, it just happened to make it into October as well.”

During earnings calls in November, several retail executives said they were uncertain about how much holiday shopping had actually been done in October and early November. Matthew Bilunas, chief financial officer at Best Buy, said that “it’s really difficult to predict exactly how much was pulled into” the third quarter.

Most retailers operate on a calendar where the fourth quarter starts in November and ends in January, in part to fully capture the holiday shopping season.

“We think it’s going to be a prolonged shopping season,” Brian Cornell, chief executive of Target, said on a separate call. “We’re going to see very different shopping patterns. We don’t expect to see those big spikes during Black Friday and on weekends.”

Sales on Monday — known as Cyber Monday since it was concocted in 2005 —  are expected to exceed those on Friday.

But while consumers have flocked to deals online, Mr. Siegel said, many retailers had carefully managed inventory and promotions and were largely holding the line on prices compared with 2019.

“People have become accustomed to doorbusters and ever-deeper promotions,” he said. “The reality is at most companies, the headline promotions are, at most, flat to last year.”

The bigger question for retailers is how the jump in online sales may eat into their profits, since they have to spend additional money on shipping and processing returns. Black Friday was traditionally considered the day that retailers went from being in the red to becoming profitable, or in the black, for the year.

“The idea of retailers moving into the black on Black Friday has also evaporated,” said Mr. Bassuk of Alix Partners. “Yes, there is more volume, but as that volume shifts to online, it becomes more costly for the retailers.”

While the number of shoppers visiting just about every store on Black Friday was down markedly from previous years, those who did venture out were not there to window-shop.

Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail research firm, said retailers experienced higher “conversion” rates, meaning more shoppers in the stores actually made purchases than in previous years.

“This is a trend we’re expected to see at this Covid Christmas,” Mr. Johnson said in an email.

While the results of this year have prompted some experts to portend the death of Black Friday, Mr. Siegel is among analysts who view 2020 as an outlier, anticipating that shoppers will return to stores once they feel it is safe to do so.

“The pandemic will leave us with a lot of new traditions but it’s not going to wipe away all of the prior,” he said.

The rest of the holiday shopping season will be closely watched as a barometer for the U.S. economy. Millions of people are still out of work or have been forced into part-time employment. Overall consumer spending, which drives as much as two-thirds of economic activity, has slowed in recent months along with the expiration of some emergency government spending programs.





No.40 article:
Police Body Cameras Cited as ‘Powerful Tool’ Against Stop-and-Frisk Abuses

City police officers who were assigned body cameras documented more stops than officers who did not wear the devices during a yearlong pilot program.

Police body cameras can help reduce the kind of bogus stops that have fueled accusations of racial bias and harassment against police officers in New York City, according to a long-awaited report released Monday.

Officers who wore the devices reported almost 40 percent more stops than officers who did not, the report found, suggesting that body cameras could compel officers to provide a more accurate accounting of their pedestrian stops under the department policy known as stop-and-frisk.

Peter Zimroth, the federal monitor who prepared the report and is guiding changes to the stop-and-frisk policy, attributed the increase in documented stops to officers being more inclined to record their actions on official paperwork knowing that they were recorded and could be reviewed. Underreporting has hindered court-ordered reform efforts for years, but the report suggests that the cameras are key to understanding the scope of the problem and fixing it.

While body cameras are not a cure-all for policing problems, Mr. Zimroth said in the report, their ability to illuminate police encounters can be “a powerful tool for increasing transparency and accountability for officers, the public and for police officials.”

Underscoring critics’ claims that the stop-and-frisk policy still disproportionately affects people of color, the report found that encounters were significantly more likely to involve Black or Hispanic people. They were also more likely to be deemed unlawful by supervisors reviewing the resulting video.

Darius Charney, a senior staff attorney for the Center for Constitutional Rights and one of the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers in the stop-and-frisk case, said the New York study’s key findings suggest that the problems at the heart of the case — underreporting and racial bias — are much larger than previously known.

“Those two things together raise a red flag for me,” he said in an interview. “That would suggest that the stop data is actually hiding the true extent of the disparities and the true extent of the racial bias in stops.”

Mr. Charney said that he was disappointed that the monitor did not provide policy recommendations or dive deeper into the implication that the underreporting issue could be racially skewed.

Mr. Zimroth, who does not grant interviews, was appointed as a monitor by a federal judge who declared the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk policy unconstitutional in 2013. The study was designed to assess the risks and benefits of outfitting the city’s entire police force with body cameras, but the city went ahead with a departmentwide rollout before the yearlong pilot program started in April 2017.

Alfred J. Baker, a police spokesman, said the department welcomed the report, but it reflected outdated practices. Some 22,000 of the roughly 35,000 officers in the department wear the cameras, including all officers on patrol and in specialized units.

“The NYPD has long since deployed body-worn cameras for its entire patrol force to realize the benefits of increased transparency and better compliance by officers with the NYPD’s policies and procedures, including those relating to street stops,” he said.

The Police Department joined other law enforcement agencies in rapidly adopting the devices after cellphone video shed light on the police killings of Black men like Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and Eric Garner in New York, and ignited nationwide unrest and calls for greater accountability for officers. 

Some law enforcement agencies around the country, however, have stopped using the devices, citing the exorbitant costs of storing the resulting video footage and the lack of proof of their effectiveness. 

Police body cameras have generated more than eight million videos since they were adopted in New York City, officials said last year, and officers record about 130,000 videos each week, according to the monitor. The devices are routinely used by the police, prosecutors and the city’s civilian police watchdog agency to investigate crimes and review officer conduct in the line of duty.

The vast majority of the footage is shielded from the public, but police have released footage from incidents like fatal shootings to show why they believe officers’ actions were justified. Legal activists have also used the video to push for changes in department policies and procedures, like removing officers from calls dealing with people in mental or emotional crisis.

The Civilian Complaint Review Board, which investigates accusations of police misconduct filed by civilians, has said that body-camera footage increases the likelihood that its investigators will be able to complete their investigations and substantiate claims against officers.

Mr. Zimroth said his study fills a research deficit and provides critical guidance to police officials weighing whether to adopt or keep body camera programs.

The report adds to a small body of research that has produced mixed findings on the benefits and limitations of body cameras. One study of 2,200 officers in Washington, D.C., found that body cameras did not have a meaningful effect on officers’ behavior, as measured by civilian complaints and uses of force.

The debate over the policy came to a head in New York in 2013, when Judge Shira Scheindlin ruled the Police Department used the stops to target Black and Hispanic people without valid legal reason, in violation of the Constitution. The judge appointed Mr. Zimroth to oversee changes designed to bring the policy in line with the Constitution, including a pilot study of whether body cameras provided any remedial benefits.

Since then, stops have plummeted. Officers conducted 13,459 stops last year, down from 191,851 stops in 2013. At the peak of stop-and-frisk in 2011, officers made 685,724 stops.

But Mr. Zimroth has repeatedly raised concerns about officers failing to file official paperwork documenting the stops, which allow officers to detain and question people who they reasonably suspect are involved in criminal activity.

In a recent report, the monitor said that 30 percent of stops conducted in 2019 were not reported by officers. Those who did fill out department paperwork failed to articulate a sufficient legal reason for 21 percent of the 1,237 stops that were audited last year.

During the pilot study, Mr. Zimroth found that the number of stops reported by officers wearing cameras rose 38.8 percent.

The justifications given by officers who reported stops while wearing cameras were more likely to be judged as unlawful compared with those given by officers who did not use the devices. The trend was also true for stops that led to subsequent police actions like frisks, searches and arrests.

The New York study involved more than 1,200 uniformed and plainclothes officers working the 3 p.m. to midnight shift in 40 precincts. The precincts were paired based on their similar levels of enforcement activity, civilian complaints and demographics of officers and neighborhoods. One precinct in each pair was part of the treatment group assigned to wear body cameras, while the other precinct was part of the control group that did not use the devices.

The study found that officers wearing body cameras drew 21 percent fewer complaints than officers who did not wear them, suggesting that both parties — officer and civilian — were mindful of their behavior when the devices were present.

But the devices had no significant effect on arrests, officers’ use of force, reporting of crimes and domestic disputes, or public attitudes toward the police, according to the monitor’s report.

“At the very least,” Mr. Zimroth said, the presence of body cameras helps to satisfy the public’s expectation to see video of controversial encounters and judge for themselves. The devices also signal that mechanisms exist to hold officers responsible for misconduct, and their use can help improve public attitudes about the legitimacy of police actions, he said.

“Given the demonstrated benefits and absence of harmful outcomes, this study supports not only the use of body-worn cameras by the NYPD, but their use by other departments as well,” he concluded.





No.41 article:
Welcome to Our Museum of Smells

The restaurant critic Tejal Rao recently created a “personal smell museum” of her life in Los Angeles, cataloging the aromas she encountered in her home and her office, the scent of vanilla she detected when driving past a commercial bakery. I asked her why she thought a smell museum was such a vital way to document her life. 

“Every time you notice a smell — fresh bread, your best friend’s house, a wet dog, garlic frying in butter — it means volatile particles in the air have entered your body and, just for a moment, become a part of you,” she said.  “There is no sense more intimate, or more complex, which is why recalling your own personal smell memories can be so precise, vivid and even emotional. Your recollections might be one day, or several decades old, but that smell was once a part of you.” 

We asked New York Times readers what smells they would archive in their own smell museums, what scents are so alive for them that they have become part of them. Here’s what they told us. — MELISSA KIRSCH







