No.1 article:
For the World Economy, a Grim Slog Tempered by New Hopes

The emergence of vaccines has taken the edge off the worst fears, but a meaningful economic recovery probably remains distant.

Nearly a year into a pandemic that has ravaged the global economy like no time since the Great Depression, the only clear pathway toward improved fortunes is containing the virus itself.

With the United States suffering its most rampant transmission yet, and with major nations in Europe again under lockdown, prospects remain grim for a meaningful worldwide recovery before the middle of next year, and far longer in some economies. Substantial job growth could take longer still.

A significant hope has emerged this month in the form of three vaccine candidates, easing fears that humanity could be subject to years of intermittent, wealth-destroying lockdowns. But significant hurdles remain before vaccines restore any semblance of normalcy. More tests must be conducted, and vast supplies manufactured. The world must navigate the complexities of distributing a life-saving medicine amid a surge of nationalism.

The very concept of normalcy now seems open to question. Even after the coronavirus is tamed into something familiar and manageable like the flu, will people habituated to keeping their distance from others return to restaurants, shopping malls and entertainment venues in the same numbers? With videoconferencing established as a replacement for business travel, will companies shell out as much as before to put them on airplanes and in hotels?

Calculating the prospects for a vigorous economic recovery entails wrestling with questions of human nature. The Depression imprinted a generation with a tendency toward thriftiness and an aversion to risk. If frugality endures this time, that would have profound and enduring economic consequences: Consumer spending typically makes up two-thirds of economic activity in countries like the United States and Britain.

“If you’re a business, you might be a bit more wary about taking on staff again,” said Ben May, a global economist at Oxford Economics in London. “You might make do with overtime for a while. Households might behave more cautiously. If that’s the case, you run the risk of economic scarring further down the line.”

Long-term damage on top of the recent economic devastation would add to the inequality that has been a central feature of recent decades, as people with greater education, advanced skills and access to stock and real estate markets harvested the winnings of expansion, while others struggled.

The pandemic has made the world more so. It has concentrated its lethal force on blue-collar workers, for whom human interaction is a necessity, striking people who labor in warehouses, slaughterhouses and frontline medical facilities. Professionals able to work from home have maintained their safety along with their incomes.

The industries that face the greatest challenges in recovering — airlines, hotels, restaurants and retail — are major employers of lower-skilled workers, and especially women.

At a time when companies are under pressure to make their workforces more diverse, the likelihood that many people will continue working from home threatens to impede entry and promotion for women and minorities. Breaking into established ranks and altering culture is not a process best conducted over Zoom.

That could limit economic dynamism. “Growing inequality is terrible for economies because consumption is reduced,” said Ian Goldin, a professor of globalization and development at Oxford University, and author of “Terra Incognita: 100 Maps to Survive the Next 100 Years.” “A smaller share of your economy is able to buy your goods and services.”

What has been challenged most directly is the popular notion that the world economy could simply endure a deep freeze to contain the pandemic and then revive, almost as if nothing had happened. The idea was that public largess could support workers and keep businesses alive during the short, sharp downturn required to choke off the virus, before commercial life recovered.

This sort of thinking was the basis for forecasts of a so-called V-shaped recovery: The astonishing collapse of major economies in the first half of the year was supposed to be followed by an equally astonishing revival.

But the global economy does not come with an on-off switch. After marked improvement in the late summer, the surge of virus cases has destroyed the hopeful scenario. The strains of the catastrophe — from failed businesses and elevated joblessness to disrupted education — appear likely to endure, potentially for years.

When the novel coronavirus first captured attention in China early this year, it prompted grave worries about a global shock. China was the world’s second-largest economy, and a voracious purchaser of goods and services, from raw materials like soybeans and iron ore to the latest gadgets from Apple. Its factories produced electronics and apparel, chemicals and construction supplies, auto parts and appliances. Disruption in China was certain to ripple outward.

The threat intensified as the virus spread to Europe, shutting down commercial life in Italy’s industrial heartland and then spreading to factories across the continent. As the pandemic assailed Europe and then North and South America, governments ordered businesses closed to halt the virus. The economic unraveling proved more intense than the global financial crisis of a dozen years earlier.

World leaders drew on the playbook from that episode, unleashing trillions of dollars of credit via central banks and direct government spending. European nations effectively nationalized payrolls to prevent layoffs. The United States delivered expanded unemployment benefits. All of this eased fears of a cascading run of bankruptcies and a potential financial crisis.

After initially covering up the epidemic, China mobilized aggressively to contain it. Its factories roared back to life, and its 1.4 billion people resumed spending, making China a rare engine of growth in the world economy.

In Europe, the apparent containment of the virus in the summer months along with the lifting of government restrictions prompted people to emerge from their bunkers, taking holidays, going out to eat, and generating optimism for a recovery.

Between July and September, most major economies expanded dramatically. The United States grew more than 7 percent compared with the previous quarter, and Germany by more than 8 percent. The United Kingdom expanded by nearly 16 percent, and France by a whopping 18 percent. Such performances were embraced by some as proof that economies would snap back as soon as the virus was gone.

Conditions appeared ripe for robust spending. Unlike in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, when households were contending with crippling debts — especially in the United States — many households in large economies are this time flush with cash, given the enforced savings regimen of the lockdowns.

“You have a lot of pent-up money,” said Kjersti Haugland, chief economist at DNB Markets, an investment bank in Oslo. “This is definitely a scenario for a rebound.”

Yet the exuberance of the summer also appears to have rendered the populace vulnerable. The French thronged cafes and Britons returned to the pubs. Americans disdained masks as a supposed affront to civil liberties. The virus commenced spreading, triggering a new round of lockdowns that have destroyed hopes of recovery this year.

Most economists assume that Europe will register a contraction over the last quarter of the year. Britain’s economy is expected to shrink by more than 11 percent this year, according to Oxford Economics, and will struggle to mount a full recovery before 2022. Among the worst-performing major economies is India: Its economy contracted 7.5 percent in the three months that ended in September compared with a year earlier, government figures showed on Friday.

The world economy will contract by 4.4 percent this year, the International Monetary Fund forecast in its most recent assessment. World trade is on track to fall by as much as 9 percent this year, according to an assessment from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.

Next year, the world economy is expected to grow by 5.2 percent, according to the I.M.F., but that would still leave it only 0.6 percent larger than in 2019. Joblessness would remain elevated. Poor countries would continue to suffer a drop in earnings sent home by migrant workers. Malnutrition would climb.

In the United States, the defeat of President Trump by Joseph R. Biden Jr. has yielded optimism that a sustained and serious attack on the pandemic will now be waged. But the prospect that the incoming administration will be constrained by Republican control of the Senate — pending a pair of runoff elections in Georgia — reduces the likelihood that the government will agree on a robust package of spending measures to stimulate the economy.

Questions about next year center on how soon vaccines reach the bloodstream of the masses. The three candidates so far, from Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca, have produced a credible vision of an end to the agony. But the economic pain has become so intense that its effects may linger.

The infusions of relief from central banks have propped up solid and flimsy companies alike. Many of the weak will eventually succumb, especially as aid is withdrawn, costing jobs. The pandemic has accelerated a pushback against globalization that may inspire multinational companies to make more goods in their home markets, while cutting costs through automation — limiting job and wage growth.

Poor and developing countries went into the pandemic facing alarming levels of debt. Promised aid from international institutions like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have proved disappointing. Private creditors have withheld debt relief.

Some argue that the pandemic should be the impetus for new economic models that create jobs through a transition to green energy while spreading the gains more equitably.

“What I’m allergic to at the moment is the notion of going back, bouncing back,” said Mr. Goldin, the Oxford economist. “It’s business as usual that got us to where we are.”





No.2 article:
Pushed by Pandemic, Amazon Goes on a Hiring Spree Without Equal

The company has added 427,300 employees in 10 months, bringing its global work force to more than 1.2 million.

SEATTLE — Amazon has embarked on an extraordinary hiring binge this year, vacuuming up an average of 1,400 new workers a day and solidifying its power as online shopping becomes more entrenched in the coronavirus pandemic.

The hiring has taken place at Amazon’s headquarters in Seattle, at its hundreds of warehouses in rural communities and suburbs, and in countries such as India and Italy. Amazon added 427,300 employees between January and October, pushing its work force to more than 1.2 million people globally, up more than 50 percent from a year ago. Its number of workers now approaches the entire population of Dallas.

The spree has accelerated since the onset of the pandemic, which has turbocharged Amazon’s business and made it a winner of the crisis. Starting in July, the company brought on about 350,000 employees, or 2,800 a day. Most have been warehouse workers, but Amazon has also hired software engineers and hardware specialists to power enterprises such as cloud computing, streaming entertainment and devices, which have boomed in the pandemic.

The scale of hiring is even larger than it may seem because the numbers do not account for employee churn, nor do they include the 100,000 temporary workers who have been recruited for the holiday shopping season. They also do not include what internal documents show as roughly 500,000 delivery drivers, who are contractors and not direct Amazon employees.

Other retailers — both with physical stores and online ones —  competed with Amazon on Black Friday and were strategizing on how to make the most of the busy end-of-year sales period, which has been upended by the pandemic. Many encouraged curbside pickup and put social distancing measures in place on Friday, but they saw light foot traffic. Amazon has the largest share of e-commerce, where sales are expected to grow by as much as 30 percent over last year’s holiday season, according to the National Retail Federation.

Amazon’s rapid employee growth is unrivaled in the history of corporate America. It far outstrips the 230,000 employees that Walmart, the largest private employer with more than 2.2 million workers, added in a single year two decades ago. The closest comparisons are the hiring that entire industries carried out in wartime, such as shipbuilding during the early years of World War II or home building after soldiers returned, economists and corporate historians said.

“It’s hiring like mad,” Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, said of Amazon. “No American company has hired so many workers so quickly.”

Even for a company that regularly sets new superlatives, Amazon’s employee growth stands out as a stark illustration of its might. At this pace, it is on track to surpass Walmart within two years to become the world’s largest private employer.

Its expansion is unfolding as lawmakers and regulators in Washington and Europe have sounded the alarm over tech power. This month, European Union regulators brought antitrust charges against Amazon, accusing it of unfairly using its size and access to data to harm smaller merchants in its marketplace. Amazon has said merchants are thriving on its site, with their share of sales growing in the pandemic. The Federal Trade Commission is also examining the company, with President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. expected to continue scrutinizing the tech giants.

“We are turning into Amazon nation,” said Margaret O’Mara, a history professor at the University of Washington and a contributing New York Times opinion writer.

Having employees in nearly every state gives Amazon, which has warehouses around the country to be closer to customers, potentially outsize political leverage, Ms. O’Mara said. She added that history has shown there are risks when a region or country becomes too dependent on any one employer, though she said Amazon had not reached that point.

Amazon has portrayed its hiring as a boon for workers laid low by the pandemic-induced recession, as unemployment has soared and as restaurants, airlines and other businesses suffer.

“Offering jobs with industry-leading pay and great health care, including to entry-level and frontline employees, is even more meaningful in a time like this,” Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, said last month when the company reported blockbuster financial results.

Some government policies have helped Amazon’s recent growth. In March, a taxpayer-funded $2 trillion stimulus package allowed local governments to shut down traditional retail stores to reduce the spread of the virus. As the stores closed, demand for items through Amazon rose — and it hired.

Adding so many new workers so fast in a pandemic has been a herculean task. Many workers feared catching the coronavirus in warehouses, so Amazon rolled out a fleet of safety measures to address Covid-19. And it revved up its hiring machine, which relies on technology and traditional recruitment.

That includes promoting its training, benefits and pay. Of its 810,000 workers who are in the United States, about 85 percent are frontline employees in warehouses and operations who earn a minimum of $15 an hour. That is higher than traditional retail work, where an average sales worker makes $13.19 an hour, but lower than typical warehousing jobs. On Thursday, Amazon said it would pay bonuses of $300 for full-time employees and $150 for part-time employees.

To get the word out, Amazon used staffing agencies and advertised on television, billboards and in mailboxes by highlighting sign-on bonuses of up to $3,000 and its precautions against Covid-19. In one recent TV spot, an Amazon employee wearing a mask said, “Safety, safety, safety!”

In many places, the hiring has come easily because Amazon is one of the few employers with open jobs. In the week leading up to Sept. 16, which the company billed as “Career Day,” it said it received more than 384,000 job applications in the United States and Canada, or 38 a minute.

“It is happening in the context of an unprecedented loss of jobs elsewhere in the economy,” said Ellora Derenoncourt, an assistant professor at University of California, Berkeley, who has studied Amazon’s minimum wage.

Amazon is not the only beneficiary of how the pandemic has pushed people toward buying online instead of in stores. Walmart has added 180,000 employees in the United States since March, and its online sales rose 79 percent in the latest quarter. Target’s e-commerce sales similarly soared 155 percent.

In that sense, this downturn has differed from past recessions, when usually all industries slowed, said Jed Kolko, chief economist at Indeed, the online jobs site. “This period has been partly about a recession but also about a pretty dramatic shift of economic activity from some sectors to others,” he said.

Just two years ago, Amazon’s work force numbered fewer than 650,000 people. At the time, the company hit the brakes on hiring to focus more on profits. The hiring pace picked back up a year ago, after it introduced one-day shipping in the United States, an enormous effort that required more warehouses and more workers to pick, pack and sort packages.

When the coronavirus hit the United States in March, online shopping condensed years of expansion into a few months. From April to June, Amazon said, it sold 57 percent more items than a year earlier.

That spurred its first pandemic hiring wave of about 175,000 temporary workers. Many were hired to replace employees who had taken advantage of an unlimited unpaid time off policy at the outset of the pandemic. To attract new employees, Amazon offered workers an extra $2 an hour and increased overtime pay. It said the extra wages were not “hazard pay,” but incentives.

Amazon had the hiring infrastructure in place to grow fast, said Ardine Williams, the vice president for work force development. As Covid-19 kept people like her elderly parents sheltering in place for safety, she said, consumers turned to e-commerce, accelerating the need to hire more.

“Some of that growth has clearly been planned,” she said. “I think that the head count ramp, though, has really been fueled by customer demand.”

Over the summer, Amazon converted most of the 175,000 temporary workers to permanent employees and ended the extra pay bumps for all workers. Since then, it has continued with waves of hiring.

The company has also almost tripled the number of U.S. warehouses used for last-mile deliveries this year, said Marc Wulfraat, founder of the logistics consulting firm MWPVL International, who tracks Amazon’s operations. The delivery drivers are usually contractors, so Amazon does not disclose their numbers in regulatory filings.

“They have built their own UPS in the last several years,” Mr. Wulfraat said. “This pace of change has never been seen before.”

Ms. Williams said Amazon also built relationships with companies that were reducing staff, such as Uber, American Airlines and Marriott, to promote its hiring.

“We dedicated a group that did nothing but connect with organizations who were furloughing people, whether it was temporary or permanent,” she said. “That allowed us to take a skilled, quality work force, and very quickly and easily move them into opportunities that were appropriate at Amazon.”

The effort has been aided by 1,000 technology workers who create software for Amazon’s human resources teams, many building portals and algorithms that automate hiring, she said. Prospective employees can find jobs, apply and be hired entirely online, without talking to a single person.

To grow so much, Amazon also needs to think long term, Ms. Williams said. As a result, she said, the company was already working with preschools to establish the foundation of tech education, so that “as our hiring demand unfolds over the next 10 years, that pipeline is there and ready.”





No.3 article:
In Harsh Rebuke, Appeals Court Rejects Trump’s Election Challenge in Pennsylvania

“Voters, not lawyers, choose the president,” a judge for the Third Circuit Court of Appeals wrote in the 21-page repudiation of Mr. Trump’s legal effort to halt Pennsylvania’s certification process.

In a blistering decision, a Philadelphia appeals court ruled on Friday that the Trump campaign could not stop — or attempt to reverse — the certification of the voting results in Pennsylvania, reprimanding the president’s team by noting that “calling an election unfair does not make it so.”

The 21-page ruling by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals was a complete repudiation of Mr. Trump’s legal effort to halt Pennsylvania’s certification process and was written by a judge that he himself appointed to the bench. “Free, fair elections are the lifeblood of our democracy,” Judge Stephanos Bibas wrote on behalf of the appeals court in a unanimous decision. “Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here.”

Many courts have used scathing language in tossing out a relentless barrage of lawsuits filed by the Trump campaign and its supporters since Election Day; but even so, the Third Circuit’s ruling was particularly blunt.

“Voters, not lawyers, choose the president,” the court declared at one point. “Ballots, not briefs, decide elections.”

The court accused the Trump campaign of engaging in “repetitive litigation” and pointed out that the public interest strongly favored “counting every lawful voter’s vote, and not disenfranchising millions of Pennsylvania voters who voted by mail.”

Even though Republican plaintiffs have continued filing lawsuits challenging the integrity of the elections and Mr. Trump has not let up on baselessly questioning the election results on Twitter, judges around the country — some of them appointed by Republicans — have held the line, ruling over and over that the legal actions in several swing states lack both merit and sufficient proof.

Last week, a federal judge in Atlanta appointed by Mr. Trump denied an emergency request to halt the certification of Georgia’s vote, saying that such a move “would breed confusion and disenfranchisement that I find have no basis in fact and law.”

Then there was the judge whose ruling was upheld by the Third Circuit, Matthew W. Brann of Federal District Court in Williamsport, Pa. When Judge Brann, a former Republican official and member of the conservative Federalist Society appointed by former President Barack Obama, dealt Mr. Trump’s team an initial legal defeat last Saturday, he likened the suit to “Frankenstein’s monster,” saying it had been “haphazardly stitched together.” He also noted that the suit was filled with “strained legal arguments” and “speculative accusations” that were “unsupported by evidence.”

The Pennsylvania decision came on a day of baseless tweets from Mr. Trump that the election was “a total scam,” that he “won by a lot” and that the news media “refuse to report the real facts and figures.”

Still, when asked on Thursday if he would leave the White House if the Electoral College, as expected, formalizes Mr. Biden’s victory, the president said: “Certainly I will.”

On Friday, moments after the three-judge panel from the Third Circuit handed down its ruling, Jenna Ellis, one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, wrote on Twitter that she and Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is leading the president’s postelection legal campaign, planned to appeal to the Supreme Court. In her Twitter post, Ms. Ellis accused “the activist judicial machinery in Pennsylvania” of covering up “allegations of massive fraud” despite the fact that all three judges on the panel were appointed by Republicans.

But even if the Supreme Court granted the Trump campaign’s proposed request to reverse the Third Circuit, it would not get much, given the narrow way in which the appeal was structured.

Mr. Trump’s lawyers had asked the appeals court only for permission to file a revised version of its original complaint to Judge Brann. If the Supreme Court abided by the strict terms of the appeal, it could do no more than return the case to Judge Brann’s court for further action.

In a letter to the Third Circuit earlier this week, lawyers for Mr. Trump had suggested that the appeals court could, on its own, reverse the certification of Pennsylvania’s vote, which took place on Tuesday when Gov. Tom Wolf signed off on the slate of 20 electors and solidified President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory there. Georgia certified its vote last week after a hand-recount of its five million ballots left Mr. Biden’s victory intact. But Mr. Trump’s lawyers stopped short of formally requesting such a move.

Still, the appeals court shot down that suggestion too, saying the campaign’s arguments for effectively undoing Pennsylvania’s election had “no merit” and would be “drastic and unprecedented.”

“That remedy would be grossly disproportionate to the procedural challenges raised,” the judges wrote.

In the initial complaint, the campaign’s lawyers had argued there were widespread improprieties with mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania and that Mr. Trump’s poll challengers were not allowed proper access to observe the vote and vote count.

But the appeals court dismissed these arguments as “vague and conclusory.”

Mr. Trump’s lawyers never alleged “that anyone treated the Trump campaign or Trump votes worse than it treated the Biden campaign or Biden votes,” the court wrote. “And federal law does not require poll watchers or specify how they may observe.”

The underlying lawsuit has been beset by legal snafus almost from the moment it began on Nov. 9.

One week after it was filed, the Trump campaign was already on its third set of lawyers. On Nov. 17, Mr. Giuliani, rushing into the matter, personally appeared at a hearing in front of Judge Brann and gave a disjointed opening statement that mentioned Mickey Mouse, former Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago and the Philadelphia mafia.

Mr. Giuliani also contradicted Mr. Trump — and his own public statements — by admitting at the hearing that no one was accusing Pennsylvania elections officials of committing fraud.

“This is not a fraud case,” he said.

The appeals court seemed to throw that statement back in Mr. Giuliani’s face in its decision.

“The Trump presidential campaign asserts that Pennsylvania’s 2020 election was unfair,” it wrote. “But as lawyer Rudolph Giuliani stressed, the campaign ‘doesn’t plead fraud.’”





No.4 article:
Gunmen Assassinate Iran’s Top Nuclear Scientist in Ambush, Provoking New Crisis

Iran expressed fury over the killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, blaming it on Israel and the United States. His death may complicate President-elect Biden’s intention to restore the Iranian nuclear deal.

Iran’s top nuclear scientist, long identified by American and Israeli intelligence as the guiding figure behind a covert effort to design an atomic warhead, was shot and killed Friday in what the Iranian media called a roadside ambush as he and his bodyguards traveled outside Tehran.

For two decades, the scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, was the driving force behind what American and Israeli officials describe as Iran’s secretive nuclear weapons program. His work continued after Iran’s push to develop a bomb was formally disbanded in 2003, according to American intelligence assessments and Iranian nuclear documents stolen by Israel nearly three years ago.

One American official — along with two other intelligence officials — said that Israel was behind the attack on the scientist. It was unclear how much the United States may have known about the operation in advance, but the two nations are the closest of allies and have long shared intelligence regarding Iran, which Israel considers its most potent threat.

Iranian officials, who have always maintained that their nuclear ambitions are for peaceful purposes, not weapons, expressed fury and vowed revenge over the assassination, calling it an act of terrorism and warmongering that they quickly blamed on Israeli assassins and the United States. 

The White House, C.I.A. and Israeli officials declined to comment. But Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s assassination — only 10 months after the United States killed the powerful spymaster at the head of Iran’s security machinery in a drone attack in Iraq — could greatly complicate President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s plans to reactivate the 2015 nuclear agreement between Tehran and six other nations, which curtailed Iran’s nuclear activities.

Mr. Biden’s transition team had no immediate comment on the assassination.

President Trump withdrew the United States from the nuclear accord in 2018, unraveling the signature foreign policy achievement of his predecessor, Barack Obama, and isolating the United States from Western allies who tried to keep the agreement intact. Since then, Iran has begun to increase its nuclear capacities once again, arguing that it is not bound by the nuclear accord because the United States reneged on its commitments.

The assassination of Mr. Fakhrizadeh had the hallmarks of a precisely timed operation. The Iranian state news media said that gunmen waited along the road and attacked as his car was driving through the countryside town of Absard, an area known as a bucolic escape with majestic mountains about 40 miles east of Tehran.

Pictures posted by state and social media of the attack aftermath showed the scientist’s vehicle, a black S.U.V., with its windshield shattered from bullets and the side windows blown out. Blood streaks and shards of glass and metal were scattered on the road. 

Protests erupted outside government buildings in Tehran to demand revenge, much as they did after the Jan. 3 attack that killed Qassim Suleimani, the Iranian major general who ran the elite Quds force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.

“Terrorists murdered an eminent Iranian scientist today,” Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, wrote on Twitter. “This cowardice — with serious indications of Israeli role — shows desperate warmongering of perpetrators.”

Mr. Zarif, who negotiated the Iran nuclear deal and remains one of Iran’s most recognizable figures, said in the post that the international community should “end their shameful double standards &amp; condemn this act of state terror.”

Brig. Gen. Mohammad Bagheri, the chief of staff for Iran’s armed forces, said in a statement that “we will not rest until we track down and take revenge on those responsible for the assassination of martyr Fakhrizadeh.”

On Friday night, Iran sent a letter to U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, condemning what it called “a terrorist attack” and warning that the country “reserves its rights to take all necessary measures to defend its people and secure its interests.” 

It is difficult to predict the precise fallout from the killing. A weakened Iran, having lost two of its most celebrated military and nuclear figures in the last year alone, may be eager for new negotiations with the Biden administration.

Yet the twin assassinations may have poisoned the well. Hard-liners in Iran may win the argument that they cannot bend to outside pressure and should redouble their efforts to resist the West in memory of Mr. Fakhrizadeh, who they declared had been martyred. 

John Brennan, who was the C.I.A. director under Mr. Obama, called the killing “a criminal act &amp; highly reckless” in a tweet. “It risks lethal retaliation &amp; a new round of regional conflict,’’ he wrote, urging Iran to “wait for the return of responsible American leadership” and resist temptations to strike back.

The Pentagon’s former top Middle East policy official, Michael P. Mulroy, said Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s death was “a setback to Iran’s nuclear program.” He noted that the scientist “was also a senior officer in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, and that will magnify Iran’s desire to respond by force.” 

It was unclear whether Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, one of the most vocal Iran hawks in the administration, had been given any advance warning of Israel’s plans when he visited Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel last week.

But some American officials argued that Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s death, the latest in a string of such killings of Iran’s top nuclear scientists that date back a dozen years, amplifies the chilling message to the country’s other top scientists working on that program: If the well-guarded head cannot be protected, neither can anyone else.

It also remains unclear how much the killing will set back the Iranian program. Mr. Fakhrizadeh had the background and oversight to understand the challenges of physics and politics the Iran nuclear program faced. But Iran recovered from the assassinations of lower-level scientists, and from the cyberattacks from 2007 to 2010 on the nuclear fuel production site at Natanz, a joint Israeli-American operation code-named “Olympic Games.” That operation set Iran back by a year or so.

The killing of Mr. Fakhrizadeh comes just two weeks after intelligence officials confirmed that Al Qaeda’s second-highest leader was gunned down on the streets of Tehran by Israeli assassins on a motorcycle on Aug. 7, at the behest of the United States.

The Qaeda figure, Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, went by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri and was accused of being one of the masterminds of the deadly 1998 attacks on two U.S. embassies in East Africa. He was killed along with his daughter, Miriam, the widow of Osama bin Laden’s son Hamza bin Laden.

But the Qaeda official was a foreigner; Mr. Fakhrizadeh was a national hero, a figure of resistance to the West and its insistence that Iran could not have its own nuclear technology. 

Iran never agreed to demands from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations’ nuclear monitor, to let U.N. inspectors question Mr. Fakhrizadeh, saying he was an academic who lectured at the Imam Hussein University in Tehran. 

Mr. Fakhrizadeh was an academic, but a series of classified reports, notably a lengthy 2007 assessment done by the C.I.A. for the George W. Bush administration, said the academic role was a cover story. In 2008, his name was added to a list of Iranian officials whose assets were ordered frozen by the United States.

That same year, his activities were disclosed in an unclassified briefing by the I.A.E.A.’s chief inspector. Later, it became clear that he ran what the Iranians called Projects 110 and 111 — an effort to tackle the most difficult problems bomb designers face in creating a warhead small enough to fit atop a missile and make it survive the rigors of re-entry into the atmosphere.

He stayed out of sight for years. But an Israeli operation in early 2018 that stole a warehouse full of Iranian documents about “Project Amad,” what the Iranians called the nuclear weapons effort 20 years ago, included documents about Mr. Fakhrizadeh, and at least one handwritten by him, the Israelis contended.

Shortly thereafter, Mr. Netanyahu singled out Mr. Fakhrizadeh in a televised presentation, when he described the secret Israeli operation to seize the archive. Iran had lied about the purpose of its nuclear research, he charged, and he identified Mr. Fakhrizadeh as the leader of the Amad program.

Iran said Mr. Netanyahu’s presentation was fiction.

Israeli officials, later backed up by American intelligence officials who reviewed the archive, said the scientist had kept elements of the program alive even after it was ostensibly abandoned. It was now being run covertly, Mr. Netanyahu argued, by an organization within Iran’s defense ministry known as S.P.N.D. He added: “You will not be surprised to hear that S.P.N.D. is led by the same person who led Project Amad, Dr. Fakhrizadeh.”

The assassination comes at a time of greatly heightened tensions between Iran and the Trump administration. Mr. Trump was dissuaded from striking Iran just two weeks ago, after his aides warned that it could escalate into a broader conflict during his last weeks in office.

Mr. Trump had asked senior advisers in an Oval Office meeting on Nov. 12 whether he had options to take action against Iran’s main nuclear site at Natanz in the coming weeks. Days later, Mr. Pompeo visited Israel on what could be his last trip there in office.

Such a strike on the eve of a new administration could poison relations with Tehran to such an extent that negotiating a restoration of the nuclear deal, or toughening its terms, could be impossible.

Since Mr. Trump dismissed the secretary of defense, Mark T. Esper, and other top Pentagon aides this month, Defense Department and other national security officials have privately expressed worries that the president might initiate operations, overt or secret, against Iran or other adversaries at the end of his term. Others have said that Mr. Netanyahu, who at various moments has been on the edge of attacking Iran’s nuclear facilities, might seek to act while Mr. Trump is still in office.

While Mr. Trump’s top advisers — including Mr. Pompeo and Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — argued against a military strike against Iran, top American officials and commanders still warn of what they call Iran’s malign activities. 

In Iran, some officials and commentators acknowledged that Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s loss had created a significant void in the country’s pursuit of nuclear science, but vowed that it would not be halted. Others also voiced concern over what apparently was a yawning security hole that they said had allowed Israeli operatives to infiltrate Iran.

“Israel has camped out here in a bad way. The recent events of this year make this clear,” a former vice president, Mohammad Ali Abtahi, said on Twitter. “Iran’s security strategy should be to find Mossad’s spies and informants.”





No.5 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.6 article:
McKinsey Proposed Paying Pharmacy Companies Rebates for OxyContin Overdoses

Court filings reveal consultants’ talk of a records purge during the opioid crisis, and shed new light on sales advice given to members of the billionaire Sackler family and their drug company, Purdue Pharma.

When Purdue Pharma agreed last month to plead guilty to criminal charges involving OxyContin, the Justice Department noted the role an unidentified consulting company had played in driving sales of the addictive painkiller even as public outrage grew over widespread overdoses.

Documents released last week in a federal bankruptcy court in New York show that the adviser was McKinsey &amp; Company, the world’s most prestigious consulting firm. The 160 pages include emails and slides revealing new details about McKinsey’s advice to members the Sackler family, Purdue’s billionaire owners, and the firm’s now notorious plan to “turbocharge” OxyContin sales at a time when opioid abuse had already killed hundreds of thousands of Americans.

In a 2017 presentation, according to the records, which were filed in court on behalf of multiple state attorneys general, McKinsey laid out several options to shore up sales. One was to give Purdue’s distributors a rebate for every OxyContin overdose attributable to pills they sold.

The presentation estimated how many customers of companies including CVS and Anthem might overdose. It projected that in 2019, for example, 2,484 CVS customers would either have an overdose or develop an opioid use disorder. A rebate of $14,810 per “event” meant that Purdue would pay CVS $36.8 million that year.

CVS and Anthem have recently been among McKinsey’s biggest clients. Press officers for the two companies said they had never received rebates from Purdue for customers who had overdosed on OxyContin.

Though McKinsey has not been charged by the federal government or sued, it began to worry about legal repercussions in 2018, according to the documents. After Massachusetts filed a lawsuit against Purdue, Martin Elling, a leader for McKinsey’s North American pharmaceutical practice, wrote to another senior partner, Arnab Ghatak: “It probably makes sense to have a quick conversation with the risk committee to see if we should be doing anything” other than “eliminating all our documents and emails. Suspect not but as things get tougher there someone might turn to us.”

Mr. Ghatak, who also advised Purdue, replied: “Thanks for the heads up. Will do.”

It is not known whether consultants at the firm went on to destroy any records.

The two men were among the highest-ranking consultants at McKinsey. Five years earlier, the documents show, they emailed colleagues about a meeting in which McKinsey persuaded the Sacklers to aggressively market OxyContin.

The meeting “went very well — the room was filled with only family, including the elder statesman Dr. Raymond,” wrote Mr. Ghatak, referring to Purdue’s co-founder, the physician Raymond Sackler, who would die in 2017.

Mr. Elling concurred. “By the end of the meeting,” he wrote, “the findings were crystal clear to everyone and they gave a ringing endorsement of moving forward fast.”

McKinsey’s plan was accepted, even though Russell Gasdia, then Purdue’s vice president of sales and marketing, questioned the firm’s approach, writing Mr. Ghatak the night before the meeting to say that he had real concerns “on the need to turbocharge sales” of OxyContin.

Another Purdue executive, David Lundie, agreed with the strategy, however. Mr. Lundie said the proposal would catch the Sacklers’ attention, according to the documents. It did.

By 2017, Purdue’s chief executive, Craig Landau, wrote that the crisis was caused by “too many Rxs being written” at “too high a dose” and “for too long.” The drugs, he said, were being prescribed “for conditions that often don’t require them” by physicians who lacked “the requisite training in how to use them appropriately.”

When McKinsey was later called on to “disassemble” the aggressive sales campaign, according to the court filings, Mr. Landau was quoted as saying that it was something “we should have done five years ago.”

A press officer for McKinsey on Wednesday said the firm had been “cooperating fully with the opioid-related investigations” and had announced in 2019 that it “would not advise any clients worldwide on opioid-specific business.”

In a statement last month, the Sacklers said that family members “who served on Purdue’s board of directors acted ethically and lawfully.”

McKinsey’s involvement in the opioid crisis came to light early last year, with the release of documents from Massachusetts, which is among the states suing Purdue. Those records show that McKinsey was helping Purdue find a way “to counter the emotional messages from mothers with teenagers that overdosed” from OxyContin.

On Tuesday, Purdue pleaded guilty to criminal charges, including defrauding federal health agencies and paying illegal kickbacks to doctors. The company also faces roughly $8.3 billion in penalties. As part of the settlement, members of the Sackler family will pay $225 million in civil penalties.

In a statement issued after the announcement of the settlement in October, Purdue said it “deeply regrets and accepts responsibility” for misconduct involving its marketing of OxyContin.

The federal settlement with Purdue comes as states and municipalities seek compensation from opioid makers for helping fuel a health crisis that has killed more than 450,000 Americans since 1999. Purdue is now seeking bankruptcy protection, as are other manufacturers.

“This is the banality of evil, M.B.A. edition,” Anand Giridharadas, a former McKinsey consultant who reviewed the documents, said of the firm’s work with Purdue. “They knew what was going on. And they found a way to look past it, through it, around it, so as to answer the only questions they cared about: how to make the client money and, when the walls closed in, how to protect themselves.”

Mr. Giridharadas is a New York Times contributor who wrote a 2018 book that examined the power of elites, including those at McKinsey, for how they evade responsibility for social harm.

In recent years, McKinsey has attracted criticism and unwanted attention for its dealings around the world, including in authoritarian countries such as China, Russia and Saudi Arabia. Its business in South Africa was decimated after McKinsey worked with companies tied to a corruption scandal that led to the ouster of the country’s president. In the United States, McKinsey worked with Immigration and Customs Enforcement under President Trump, proposing ways to cut spending on food and housing for detainees.

The documents released last week detail McKinsey’s work with Purdue going back to 2008, the year after the drugmaker pleaded guilty to misleading regulators. The Food and Drug Administration had previously told Purdue that OxyContin would face sales restrictions and that doctors prescribing it would require specialized training.

The Sacklers saw those rules as a threat and, joining with McKinsey, made a plan to “band together” with other opioid makers to push back, according to one email. McKinsey prepped Purdue executives for a vital meeting before an F.D.A. advisory committee reviewing its proposed reformulation of OxyContin to make it less prone to abuse. The reformulation went on the market in 2010.

McKinsey put together briefing materials that anticipated questions Purdue would receive. One possible question: “Who at Purdue takes personal responsibility for these deaths?”

The proposed answer: “We all feel responsible.”

Dr. Richard Sackler, now the family patriarch, was pleased with the preparations, writing to his daughter in a January 2009 email: “Marianna, I am writing to tell you how impressed I was by the preparation for the F.D.A. meeting. Both the method and process as well as the content was excellent and a major departure from efforts like this in the past.”

Purdue’s F.D.A. meeting appeared to be at least partly successful. “Even to this day, the F.D.A. has never required specialized training for OxyContin prescribers,” wrote the state lawyers who filed the documents last week.





No.7 article:
Sometimes, It’s OK to Bark in Meetings

Some of our favorite new colleagues are four-legged and furry.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

Judging from their appearances together during work videoconferences, Andrea Zagata and her puppy, Rosalie, can seem inseparable. Ms. Zagata, a staff editor for the Print Hub, which produces the print edition of The New York Times, adopted the dog from a Manhattan rescue organization in September. Since then, Rosalie, with her big brown eyes and an ear that sits permanently perked up, has been a constant presence at Ms. Zagata’s side (or in her lap).

Ms. Zagata and her husband, Josh Crutchmer, the print planning editor for the Print Hub, had been casually looking for a new companion since losing their beloved dog, Abby, earlier in the year. “I was so sad after we lost Abby,” Ms. Zagata said. “It was hard to make myself go outside. There wasn’t a reason. I did not realize that I’m the kind of person who really just needs to have a dog.”

Rosalie, part Rottweiler and part chow chow, among a multitude of other breeds, is one of many pets who have found homes this year, part of a surge in animal adoptions all over the country during the pandemic. And staff members at The Times seem to have contributed in their own way to this increase, with employees from all parts of the newsroom bringing home their own fluffy (or scaled or feathered) friends in recent months.

These additions have brought comfort in an anxiety-filled year and company in a time when office colleagues are visible only on a screen.

Some staff members, like the sports reporter Sopan Deb, had never prioritized having a pet, but ample time at home (and his fiancée’s birthday) provided the perfect opportunity for Mr. Deb to finally start searching for one. Within a day, the couple had found and fallen in love with Koko, a cavalier King Charles spaniel and bichon frisé mix. Her name was inspired by Kolkata, the Indian city formerly known as Calcutta, where Mr. Deb’s family is from.

“I adore her in a way that is incalculable to me,” Mr. Deb said. “This dog is part of our family.”

Not only have these pets quickly become a part of their households — Mr. Deb likens himself to a “pushover parent” — but in some ways, they have also been like new co-workers, frequently emerging as guests, whether intentional or not, during meetings.

Lana Porter, the creative director for the research and development team, has had her pandemic puppy, a miniature Australian shepherd named Stevie, make multiple appearances during videoconferences. When another employee on her team acquired a pet, meetings resembled a virtual dog park.

“At one point we had his dog on the feed, my dog was on the feed, and everyone was watching our dogs,” Ms. Porter said. “We’ve almost created a whole new type of event where people just watch each other’s pets.”

Several staff members also take to Slack, the messaging platform, to share photos of their four-legged friends, either in a channel designated specially for pet picture swapping or among their own teams. Sara Bonisteel, a senior staff editor on the Food desk, made a family announcement to colleagues on Slack when she adopted two tuxedo cats named Astra and Diomedes.

“We’re so far into this pandemic that I feel like you get set in your pandemic ways,” Ms. Bonisteel said, adding of the adjustment to her new cats: “It will break up that structure, and that’s a good thing. It provides a little lift.”

And in a year filled with sadness and physical and emotional distance, seeing a cute creature onscreen can help bring co-workers just a little bit closer.

“Sometimes we have a little bit of a rough close on Saturday mornings, especially when news is happening,” Ms. Zagata said of meeting the Print Hub deadlines on that day. “Every now and again, someone will say, ‘Hey, can you put that puppy on?’ She’s been kind of a reward.”





No.8 article:
He Once Trafficked in Rare Birds. Now, He Tells How It’s Done.

After a chance encounter in Brazil, Johann Zillinger became one of the world’s most prolific wildlife smugglers. Three decades and two prison stints later, he says he has gone straight.

WEIDEN AN DER MARCH, Austria — On a humid evening at the airport in Fortaleza, in northern Brazil, Johann Zillinger, a wildlife trafficker, was keeping a close eye on his new hire. He had recruited the 24-year-old farmhand as a smuggler a few days earlier, promising him a free trip to Europe and $2,000 in cash.

But the young man was sweating profusely, and Mr. Zillinger worried that he might raise suspicions. At length, he decided to go ahead. “I gave him two lines of coke and said, ‘Let’s go.’”

Mr. Zillinger himself had no need of drugs. Always dressed like a businessman, he had sauntered through security and passport checks scores of times, the thousands of exotic birds he was trafficking undetected.

But on that evening in 2002, customs agents in Fortaleza, acting on a tip, found 47 eggs of endangered parrots stuffed in nylon stockings and wrapped around the two men’s midsections. The agents also discovered 20 live birds in the bag of a third accomplice.

A photo in a local newspaper shows the young hire covering his face. Mr. Zillinger stares straight into the camera. In the accompanying article, Interpol agents describe him as one of the world’s biggest wildlife traffickers, a wiry Austrian who, on that day alone, admitted to smuggling wildlife worth more than $350,000.

The multi-billion-dollar wildlife trade is the primary reason for species extinction, according to a study by U.S. and British scientists. But Mr. Zillinger said that for him, it was never about the money. Rather, he wanted to breed some of the world’s most elusive birds. The birds are an addiction, “like smoking, like drinking coffee or alcohol,” he said.

His drive was undeterred by the four months he spent in a rural Brazilian jail cell after his arrest, his amenities reduced to a bucket. He returned to the infamous trade and said he had stopped only recently and was now busying himself with breeding rare species and building a zoo.

The first time we met at his modest house in the Austrian countryside, Mr. Zillinger reached for a small teacup in a glass cabinet, an improvised nest for a featherless chick. It was screaming to be hand-fed. Caring for birds was instilled in him by his father, a roofer and avid breeder of messenger pigeons, who gave him two white cockatoos when he was a teenager.

“They are pickier than humans,” Mr. Zillinger said as he pushed a syringe with bird formula down the chick’s beak. Parrots are sensitive animals, particularly about their lifelong partners. In captivity, many never raise offspring.

But Mr. Zillinger’s cockatoos were a match. The moment the first chick broke through its shell, he was hooked. “It was like winning the lottery,” he said, beaming.

He fell into trafficking rare birds by chance. Adventurous and in his late teens, he was eager to meet sun-tanned women on Rio de Janeiro’s Copacabana Beach when an encounter with a fellow parrot aficionado from Switzerland changed his path.

Mr. Zillinger recalled the proposal: Smuggle birds back to Europe, your trips will be paid for and you can keep some to breed. They struck a deal.

He climbed to the nests of hyacinth macaws in the Pantanal wetlands and persuaded Indigenous communities of the arid caatinga region of northeastern Brazil to show him the world’s last Lear’s macaws. Sometimes, he dug a hole and climbed in, covering it with bamboo, leaves and sweet fruit. “When the bird landed on it, you grabbed it and pulled it down.”

In the early years, Mr. Zillinger was able to get the birds through customs in Brazil by greasing some palms. Over time, though, airport officials’ demands rose too high, Mr. Zillinger said, and he focused on eggs. Strapped to his body, the eggs would keep warm crossing the ocean to Portugal, where he would transfer them from human to conventional incubator. The hardest part, he said, was not cracking them. “That’s the 10 percent we lost, but other than that, it was foolproof.”

Over the years, Mr. Zillinger grew estranged from his three biological children and their mothers, and even his four siblings. Following the Fortaleza arrest, he moved his Brazilian wife and her two children to Austria. She left him shortly after. They have since divorced.

Around that time, Brazilians and Portuguese were dominating the egg smuggling routes to Europe. But once the eggs were hatched, the traffickers still had the problem of proving the birds had not been smuggled into Europe.

The key to laundering animals, Mr. Zillinger said without irony, is the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), a treaty adopted in 1975 to ensure that the legal trade in wildlife does not drive threatened species to extinction. Those can be traded only if they fall under one of many exceptions. The crucial exception for traffickers was captive breeding.

Mr. Zillinger and other traffickers found that they could obtain a valid CITES document to disguise smuggled animals as captive bred. They simply needed to claim that they were, and, after all but the most incredible claims, officials would issue paperwork declaring wild, trafficked birds to be born in captivity. CITES officials have admitted that such documents were wrongfully issued.

Together with Europe’s removal of borders beginning in 1995, Mr. Zillinger said, “that opened the floodgates.”

He says his work was largely financed by a well-to-do Viennese doctor with a love for palm cockatoos and hyacinth macaws, while he served as a courier for customers and middlemen across Europe, all willing to pay tens of thousands of dollars for rare parrots.

He laughed at comparisons to other smuggling crimes. “Why would anyone traffic drugs or weapons? They’re idiots. With wildlife, the profits are much higher, and there’s no risk.”

Almost no risk, that is. Five years ago, on a two-lane highway in Portugal, Mr. Zillinger was pulled over for what appeared to be a random traffic stop but was in fact the climax of a monthslong investigation.

From surveillance, the police knew he was transporting two Lear’s macaws, crouched in a box hooked to his sedan’s cigarette lighter, the temperature set to a tropical 100 degrees Fahrenheit. As few as 250 of these parrots remain in the wild, leaving the market price up to the highest bidder. Mr. Zillinger bought them for about $8,000 each, but said they would resell for several times that.

In wiretapped calls to his then-girlfriend that emerged in the subsequent trial, Mr. Zillinger displayed a range of emotions, from flustered and annoyed to a solemn realization that he was “definitely finished.” He gave instructions to alert his associates, then ended the last call from the back of a police car. “Kisses, and goodbye,” he said, humbled and dispirited.

The court in Lisbon found him guilty of trafficking, along with three Portuguese associates. After almost a year in prison there, he decided to quit the business. But, Mr. Zillinger says, that turned out to be harder than he thought. His financier, demanded he return to work or pay back $35,000 in operational costs.

That’s when Mr. Zillinger became a whistle-blower.

“He was in too deep, and he wanted to get out,” said Thomas Engel, a Harley-riding Austrian customs agent. It took him six hours to write down Mr. Zillinger’s testimony, which launched multiple, extensive investigations — search warrants for several properties; almost 100 confiscated, highly valuable parrots; wiretaps; and more than 50 binders of case files.

His former financier, who did not respond to requests for comment, was convicted under Austrian law of wildlife trafficking and trafficking in protected species and fined $43,200. “Do you think that matters to someone who makes half a million a year?” Mr. Zillinger asked.

On appeal, the fine was reduced to $41,000, but the ruling stood.

Most days, Mr. Zillinger keeps busy with his latest endeavor, the construction of a small zoo.

“These capuchinbirds,” he said, pointing at a bird with a bare, dull blue head, “I’ve got four males. And what can you breed with four males?” But if he gets a zoo license, he would have access to animals that individual breeders can’t get legally, like female capuchinbirds.

Through a corridor, he passed a trophy-like row of enclosures with his birds — all legal, he stressed — stopping to show his most prized possession, three young cassowaries, large, flightless birds, capable of slicing open predators — or humans — with their thick, four-inch-long claws.

“This isn’t a bird, it’s a dinosaur,” Mr. Zillinger said. “It’s something very, very special.” From his hand, the bird picked a blue grape. Mr. Zillinger beamed.





No.9 article:
Empowered by an Odds-Defying Win, Susan Collins Is Ready to Deal

The senator from Maine has emerged from the toughest re-election battle of her career more influential than ever, and ready to play a crucial deal-making role in a divided Senate.

WASHINGTON — The calls began pouring in even before Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, bounded onto a makeshift stage in a snowy parking lot in Bangor to declare victory in a race she was supposed to have lost.

Republicans who had privately fretted about her demise offered hearty congratulations, professing to have always known she would survive. Senator Joe Manchin III, the centrist Democrat from West Virginia, reached out wanting to know how soon he could get a meeting with his fellow moderate to begin breaking through the impasse on a coronavirus relief package. And President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. made a brief call to congratulate a former Senate colleague and legislative ally whose vote he will badly need to push through his agenda and staff his administration.

The ring-kissing reflected the prime perch of Ms. Collins, who, after having survived the steepest re-election challenge of her career with a comfortable margin, has emerged more powerful than ever, poised for a fifth term in which her brand of bipartisan deal-making will be crucial.

The question is how Ms. Collins, who has long held sway as one of the few swing votes in a narrowly divided Senate, will use that power. She has drawn brutal criticism in the past from Democrats who say she courts compromise, only to ultimately side with the Republican Party line. Now with Republicans bent on blocking any policy accomplishments by a Biden administration, Ms. Collins will be under immense pressure from both sides for her pivotal vote.

“We will be able to encourage the president not to be drawn to the far left,” Ms. Collins said in an interview in Washington, calling her election and Mr. Biden’s an endorsement of divided government that vindicated her moderate approach.

“I think that’s a message the American people were sending, that they want more centrist politics pursued, and they don’t want to go to the far left, so that too provides me with an opportunity,” Ms. Collins said.

Ms. Collins, 67, has a strong relationship with Mr. Biden, who has called her “a woman of incredible character, integrity, and grace.” And now, she has the battle scars and enhanced credibility that comes with having accomplished a feat many Republicans readily concede they never could have: win a resounding victory in a state that President Trump lost. She has also surpassed a more enduring milestone, having now outlasted Margaret Chase Smith, the first woman to represent Maine in the Senate, to become the longest-serving Republican woman in the chamber’s history.

“She’s the greatest that’s ever been,” Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas and one of the most conservative members of the Senate, declared in the aftermath, noticing Ms. Collins in conversation with a reporter in the Capitol. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, effectively declared her the queen of the Senate, posting on Instagram a depiction of Ms. Collins seated on a throne of skulls.

Her success in Maine, where she prevailed over the Democrat, Sara Gideon, despite polls showing her on track to lose, has vindicated Ms. Collins’s signature brand of New England moderation, cultivated over the last two decades. Come January, whether Mr. Biden oversees a divided government or a narrow Democratic hold on both chambers, she is positioned to play a crucial role in confirming administration nominations, approving spending agreements and negotiating legislative priorities like coronavirus relief or prescription drug legislation.

“My winning shows that a moderate can prevail in this highly polarized environment,” Ms. Collins said. “My victory in Maine shows that you can be an independent voice and take some breaths, do what you think is right, and the voters, in some states at least, will reward you.”

Ms. Collins said she was open to working with former political foes in order to achieve legislative accomplishments. But having survived a brutal campaign in which Democrats savaged her, Ms. Collins has reason to hold some grudges. She pointedly noted that Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the minority leader, presented “a challenge” given “the millions of dollars in blatantly false ads he ran against me.”

Though the precise balance of the power in the Senate will remain unknown until two Georgia runoff races are decided in early January, Republicans are favored to win both seats, likely leaving Mr. Biden as the first Democratic president since Grover Cleveland in 1885 to take office without Democrats in control of both congressional chambers. A fraction of Republican support — likely, that of Ms. Collins and Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who faces re-election in 2022 — will be needed to advance both his legislative and political ambitions.

“It puts her in a very strong position to get things done in the Senate,” said Steve Abbott, her campaign manager and a longtime adviser. He described “a special self-confidence that comes” from “beating the odds,” one that, he added, “strengthens her to the core, to do what she thinks is right.”

In a signal of where the power could rest in the 117th Congress, Mr. Biden has yet to speak to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. But he made a point of calling Ms. Collins before his own victory was cemented. (Mr. Biden formally endorsed Ms. Gideon during the campaign, but did not appear in person with her.)

“I know we come technically from political backgrounds that are different, but they’re not that different,” Mr. Biden said in a 2017 video filmed in honor of Ms. Collins receiving an Irish Heritage Center award. “We’ve become fast and good friends, and I look forward to you continuing to lead in the United States Senate, Susan.”

“We Irish are the only ones who are nostalgic about the future,” Mr. Biden mused in the video, which the Collins campaign provided ahead of the November election. “Well, I’m nostalgic about your future. A long way to go, and you’ve got a lot more to give.”

By no means will the Senate of 2021 resemble the courtly chamber where both Mr. Biden and Ms. Collins forged their respective careers. The civility that dominated back then has been left in tatters by partisan warfare over judicial confirmations and legislative obstruction. But the pair both steered their respective campaigns to victory based in part on their legislative prowess and the longstanding relationships they had built over decades in Washington.

Ms. Collins, who is in line to lead the powerful Appropriations Committee, ran a classic retail campaign, popping into business after business — sometimes purchasing a pair of earrings, or cans of food for a local food drive — and emphasizing the importance to Maine of her clout in the Senate.

The argument resonated for many of the voters who flocked to her flurry of campaign stops across the state, including a woman who brought a Tupperware full of the senator’s favorite cookies to a Fourth of July parade in rural Jackman, the business owners and town leaders grateful for the federal dollars she had steered their way, and the Postal Service worker who thanked her for pushing for funding for the embattled mail-delivery agency.

“There needs to be a balance,” said Liz Wisecup, a retired registered nurse, who said she voted for both Mr. Biden and Ms. Collins. Without Ms. Collins, she added, she feared that “Maine will be lost forever” in the partisan shuffle.

Ms. Collins and her allies are quick to note that her gentility and penchant for deal-making has not wavered in more than two decades, even as liberal critics have grown scornful of what they say is a seemingly perpetual pattern of condemning the extreme elements of her own party, but then siding with them on crucial votes. Her record also has plenty of notable moments of having defied the will of the Republican Party, including in declining to vote to confirm Justice Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court the week before the election.

Having taken careful note of at least eight Democrats who have reached out and expressed interest in negotiating on big issues — Mr. Schumer was not among them, she noted — Ms. Collins has already begun to push for compromise.

In recent days, she has held court in the Senate basement, chastising the administration for denying Mr. Biden critical intelligence briefings and urging her colleagues to reconcile their differences on the pandemic aid measure and a funding package for the entire government.

“We work so well together,” Mr. Manchin said of Ms. Collins. “We look at the issues and we look at the problems and how we might fix them. I just can’t see losing good people like that just because they have a ‘D’ or an ‘R’ by their name.”





No.10 article:
Pictures of a Thanksgiving That No One Pictured

Whether they carved turkeys at outdoor picnic tables, connected with family through video calls or ate stuffing in the break room of a hospital coronavirus ward, many Americans found themselves marking this Thanksgiving in ways they hardly could have foreseen a year ago.

The holes that Covid-19 has torn so viciously in millions of lives were glaring on Thursday: Houses sat quiet, dinner tables were nearly empty, even the Macy’s parade route in New York was nearly devoid of spectators. And in too many cases, loved ones were irrevocably missing.

Even so, laughter and holiday cheer still spilled from behind many a face mask, or through the boxes on digital screens. In Mississippi, a brother and sister’s hunting tradition lived on. Nurses in Houston ate from paper plates between work shifts keeping virus patients breathing.

And a 93-year-old retired toymaker in California seemed to speak for many when he described his pandemic-altered Thanksgiving: “We adapt.”

— Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs

LOS ANGELES — Edgar Burns, 93, has long been accustomed to a big family dinner on Thanksgiving surrounded by 13 relatives. But that was not going to work this year.

Born in Germany, Mr. Burns survived the Holocaust, immigrated to the United States in 1947 and spent a long career designing toys for Mattel. In retirement he has led an active life of writing, gardening and exercising. Though he lives alone, he feels fortunate that all three of his children live nearby; before the pandemic, he would usually see one of them every day.

“The family is everything,” he said.

To stay safe this year, instead of a big dinner for the holiday, the family opted for a small socially distanced lunch on the patio at Mr. Burns’s son Ken’s house. Mr. Burns wondered what Thanksgiving would look like out in broad daylight, instead of under artificial bulbs in the evening. But the change didn’t worry him.

“I’m pretty malleable,” he said. “We adapt.”

Later on, Mr. Burns saw his two daughters and their children using Portal, a video device that his grandson set up for him recently. “Sure, I would like to do more things with my grandkids, but I can’t, so I don’t,” he said. “It’s just a few more months.”

— Isadora Kosofsky

HOUSTON — On a wall at the United Memorial Medical Center in Houston is a sign that tracks how many days the medical team has been “fighting Covid-19.” Thanksgiving was Day 252 in the battle.

Located on Houston’s North Side, the hospital serves some of the city’s most vulnerable populations. Most patients are Black or Hispanic, and many are uninsured. The hospital also recently began receiving virus patients transferred from El Paso, one of the nation’s hardest-hit cities.

Many nurses and other workers at the hospital saw more patients on Thanksgiving Day than they did family members or friends. On breaks between shifts, groups of three or four staff members would sneak away to the employee break area to inhale a paper plateful of turkey and casserole and a slice of pumpkin pie.

Even as they fought to keep patients alive, this unconventional family still managed to crack jokes and lift one another up between bites. Thursday was another busy day on the Covid-19 ward: One patient died in the early morning, two patients needed percutaneous tracheostomy procedures to help them breathe, and toward the end of the day, two new patients were admitted. The doctors and nurses rarely had time to look back; they were focused on getting to Day 253. — Christopher Lee

LOS ANGELES — Ericke Tan, 30, spent last Thanksgiving with her large extended family at her grandmother’s house, but this year they avoided a large gathering and came up with a different way to share a meal.

Ms. Tan, a digital marketing manager, bought a lechón, a slowly roasted suckling pig dish popular in the Philippines, and cut it in half. She delivered one half to her parents and her two younger siblings at their home on Thursday, and brought the other half to her studio apartment in the Koreatown neighborhood of Los Angeles.

Later that night, she used FaceTime to chat with her four siblings; three live in the United States and one in the Philippines. — Rozette Rago

NATCHEZ, Miss. — Jimmy Riley and his sister, Alyce Riley-Reames, rose before dawn, loaded up Mr. Riley’s Ford truck and drove out to the family’s 300 acres of woodland south of Natchez to hunt.

“It’s not just about meat,” said Mr. Riley, the manager at the Giles Island Hunting Club. “I get to share something in common with my family.”

The siblings have done the same every Thanksgiving for more than a decade. For all that has changed this year, he said, “Covid has not shut that part of our life down.”

Around 11 a.m., he lowered his bow from the wild sweet pecan tree where he had been perched, and went to pick up his sister from her spot. They packed their gear and drove to their mother’s house for Thanksgiving dinner, where only five family members — instead of the usual 15 — gathered for the meal. Afterward, they headed back out again to finish the day hunting.

Neither of the siblings wound up killing a deer on Thursday, but that wasn’t the point.

“Hunting ain’t just about killing,” Mr. Riley said, walking back to his car in the rain after sunset. “This is where I go to contemplate everything that is going on in my life.” — Annie Flanagan

DETROIT — Cherri Harris, 47, celebrated Thanksgiving with her daughter, Reanna Williams, 20, at her home in Detroit. They could not hold hands with extended family in a prayer circle as they usually do, but they were joined by family and friends on a Zoom call in their kitchen.

The holiday was noticeably quieter without Ms. Harris’s mother, the Rev. Darla Swint, who died of Covid-19 in April, a month and a few days shy of her 70th birthday. Ms. Harris, a former nurse, cared for her mother at home for nearly two weeks after she fell ill, until she had to be admitted to the hospital.

“It’s a little lonely, but I thank God my daughter is home from college to be there for me,” Ms. Harris said. “That meant more to me than she’ll probably ever realize.” — Sylvia Jarrus

LUPTON, Ariz. — The coronavirus has gripped the Navajo Nation and shown no sign of letting go, as the number of cases and deaths continued to rise this week. Trying to stem the spread, the Navajo Nation’s vice president urged everyone to stay home for Thanksgiving, and its health director issued a stay-at-home order earlier this month that lasts until Dec. 6, limiting trips out of the home to “essential activities.”

“We wish all of our Navajo people a Happy Thanksgiving holiday, and we encourage you to remain home with your loved ones throughout the weekend,” Myron Lizer, the vice president, said in a statement. “The safest place to be during this pandemic is at home here on the Navajo Nation.”

President Jonathan Nez urged people to stay home on the day after Thanksgiving as well, and to forgo Black Friday shopping trips, saying, “The risks are far too high and not worth your life.”

Lorencita Murphy, an Army veteran, cooked and baked for her family on Thursday and assembled to-go trays to hand out to relatives in their cars outside of her home, a celebration that she described as “very different&quot; from her usual festivities.

“A few family members, friends, and no buffet,” she said. “Kind of sad.” — Sharon Chischilly

BENNINGTON, Neb. — Bundled up on a sunny, wind-swept prairie, Barbi Hayes found a way for her family to celebrate Thanksgiving together safely. Each household prepared dishes and then exchanged the food in containers to be opened and eaten after the gathering.

Though the family’s holidays typically bring together as many as 40 people, this year there were just 10.

“You forget how important just your immediate family is when you’re trying to host for a lot of people,” Ms. Hayes said. “It really brought family back home.”

In the open air, they enjoyed each other’s company and then set off on a hike through the golden fields.

“You know, we have to have optimism,” Ms. Hayes said. “And even in the darkest times, you need hope. The year is almost over, which is good.” — Calla Kessler





No.11 article:
Royal Watchers Wonder: Do the Royals Watch ‘The Crown’?

A lack of hard facts has not prevented plenty of speculation as to whether Queen Elizabeth and the other members of the royal family ever watch their fictionalized selves.

If there were a TV show that portrayed your family as a clueless bunch of snobs and philanderers who helped drive a mentally fragile young princess to despair, would you watch it?

“Frankly, think about it,” said Valentine Low, who writes about royal affairs for The Times of London. (Yes, we’re talking about “The Crown” and the British royal family here.) “If you were a member of the royal family, there’s no upside to watching it at all. All it’s going to do is annoy you. The idea of them sitting down and having a laugh and watching it — nothing has ever convinced me that that is plausible.”

The latest “Crown” season, which sets out the origin story of the doomed marriage between Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales, has upset the British news media (and possibly the British public, though it is unclear how much one speaks for the other) by stirring up messy old controversies and raising tantalizing new questions.

These questions include: How accurate is it? (Somewhat accurate, but also quite inaccurate.) Is there really an asinine drinking game called Ibble Dibble that may or may not be beloved by the British upper classes? (Yes.) And perhaps most unanswerable of all: Are the royal family themselves consumers of “The Crown”?

Anyone who knows the answer to that could not possibly comment.

“I am sorry but we never comment on ‘The Crown,’” Donal McCabe, Queen Elizabeth’s communications secretary, said via email.

The very thing that makes “The Crown” such catnip to viewers — that it imagines in vivid detail what the members of the pathologically private Windsor family say to each other behind closed doors — is the same thing that makes attempting to discover what the family thinks about the series an exercise in futility.

So tight-lipped and aggressively discreet are the royals about their personal lives, so loath are they to exhibit any hint of public self-examination, that the idea of them willingly adding oxygen to the conversation around “The Crown” is inconceivable.

Jonny Dymond, the BBC’s royal correspondent, said that whenever reporters ask royal sources — unnamed staff and household members authorized to “talk to mere mortals,” i.e. members of the news media — about “The Crown,” the answer is always: “I don’t know, and if I did, I wouldn’t tell you.”

He went on: “We know that the household and the senior staff watches it, and we know that they are concerned about it. But do the family watch it? We simply don’t know.”

That hasn’t stopped people from asking. It’s become something of an exercise in competitive royal Kremlinology, in fact, to track down any inkling of any remark that any Windsor, however minor, may or may not have made about “The Crown” at one time or another.

Let’s start with Queen Elizabeth, who generally limits her unscripted public comments to such topics as the weather and is famous for saying, when meeting new people at social occasions, “Have you come far?”

“She is bound to have heard of ‘The Crown,’ but the Queen has never confirmed whether she actually watches it,” The Express reported. However, the paper added, “a senior royal source told the Sunday Express in 2017 the Queen has watched ‘The Crown’ before.”

According to the 2017 account, the queen’s son Edward and his wife, Sophie, often join the queen “for an informal supper while watching TV or a film” and happen to be fans of the program. “They have a Netflix account and urged her to watch it with them,” the paper said. “Happily, she really liked it, although obviously there were some depictions of events that she found too heavily dramatized.”

Meanwhile, the actress Vanessa Kirby, who plays Princess Margaret in the first two seasons, told Vanity Fair a few years ago that a friend of hers had once “met one of Queen Elizabeth’s granddaughters: Princess Eugenie — or was it Beatrice? — who said that her granny loved it.”

Hmm, said Richard Palmer, who writes about the royals for The Daily Express. “I’m pretty sure that the queen, Prince Philip and Prince Charles don’t watch ‘The Crown,’” he said via email.

The arrival of the current season, at a moment when much of Britain is in Covid-related lockdown, has meant that “The Crown” is an even bigger topic than it might be otherwise. Without much of substance to report, many papers are producing conditionally tensed articles about what the royals would think, if they were to watch the show.

“If the Duke of Edinburgh could bring himself to watch ‘The Crown,’ he would doubtless be most shocked by the spectacle of the man impersonating him shooting pheasants in August,” Simon Heffer wrote in The Daily Telegraph, saying that the series had caused “unintentional hilarity” among the cognoscenti. (Another of his objections: The queen would say “field sports” — not “blood sports,” as she says in the series — to describe hunting.)

Some royals are apparently being performatively anti-“Crown,” making their views (if in fact they have views) known via a network of “friends.” This is especially true of Prince Charles, who has spent years trying to live down the battering his reputation took after he and Diana divorced and then, not long afterward, she was killed in a car crash. The current series reminds us that his relationship with his current wife, the former Camilla Parker-Bowles, overlapped with his relationship with Diana, and that Diana was not happy about it.

Does Charles watch “The Crown”? No way, say his friends — or his “friends.”

“The Prince of Wales has refused to watch ‘The Crown’ and is purposely distancing himself from it,” Victoria Ward wrote in The Daily Telegraph. She went on to quote unnamed Charles supporters as saying it was “terrible” that his name was being “dragged through the mud.”

Does Prince William, the son of Charles and Diana, watch “The Crown”?

If he did, he would not like it, either, The Daily Mail reported.

Images of his parents’ unhappy marriage “will no doubt also irritate Prince William,” the paper said, citing “one insider.”

The “insider” continued: “The Duke of Cambridge is none too pleased with it. He feels that both his parents are being exploited and being presented in a false, simplistic way to make money.”

For what it’s worth, Olivia Colman, who plays the queen, said she once sat next to Prince William at a dinner, and that while he was charming and gracious, their exchange “didn’t go very well” when “The Crown” came up.

“He asked what I was doing at the moment before he quickly added, ‘Actually, I know what you’re doing,’” she told an interviewer. I was so excited and asked, ‘Have you watched it?’ His answer was a firm ‘No.’”

And Matt Smith, who played Prince Philip in the first two seasons, told The Observer that a “man of prominence in the film world” whom he knows was once asked by Prince Philip, also at a dinner, whether he was “involved in this ‘Crown’ thing.”

No, the man replied.

But after a bit, unable to contain his curiosity, the man said: “Philip, I’m just wondering, because I have some friends who made “The Crown,” have you watched any?”

Philip glowered at him. “Don’t be ridiculous,” he said.





No.12 article:
India’s Economy Shrinks Sharply as Covid-19 Slams Small Businesses

The latest data firmly establishes India’s position among the worst-performing major economies, despite government spending meant to blunt the pandemic’s impact.

NEW DELHI — China has come roaring back from the devastation of Covid-19, and the United States, Europe and Japan are finding their feet. But the hundreds of millions of laborers and shopkeepers who keep India’s economy running still can’t find relief.

India’s economy shrank 7.5 percent in the three months that ended in September compared with a year earlier, government figures showed on Friday. The data reflects the deepening of India’s severest recession since at least 1996, when the country first began publishing its gross domestic product numbers.

The new figures firmly ensconced India’s position among the world’s worst-performing major economies, despite expansive government spending designed to rescue the thousands of small businesses severely battered by its long, hastily imposed lockdown. 

Nikhil Das, a 62-year-old manufacturer of silk ties and scarves in New Delhi, says his business is teetering on the edge of collapse. His sales, which depend on demand from luxury shops and airport retailers, have fallen by four-fifths. He needs payments from customers to make up for his manufacturing costs, but retailers who can’t move his wares still owe him more than $50,000.

He has idled six workers he once paid for each tie and scarf they made, and he has been treated for stomach pain that his doctor has attributed to stress.

“The money supply chain is broken,” Mr. Das said. “It is a constant source of tension to me.”

The Indian government has committed $50 billion, roughly 2 percent of India’s annual economic output, to help small businesses, as well as cash transfers to low-income workers as part of a $266 billion economic package. 

For the average Indian worker and entrepreneur, it hasn’t been enough. 

An estimated 140 million people lost their jobs after India locked down its economy in March to stop the outbreak, while many others saw their salaries drastically reduced, the Mumbai-based Center for Monitoring Indian Economy said. As the lockdown was eased, many went back to work, but more than six million people who lost jobs haven’t found new employment.

In a June survey by the All India Manufacturers Organization, about one-third of small and medium-sized enterprises indicated that their businesses were beyond saving. The industry group said that such a “mass destruction of business” was unprecedented.

Businesses like Mr. Das’s form the backbone of India’s still-developing economy. Small and medium-size enterprises employ about four-fifths of the labor force.

India’s textile factories, leather tanneries, brick kilns, foundries and other small enterprises form “part of the country’s social fabric, bringing local wealth and local employment,” said Venkatachalam Anbumozhi, an economist who focuses on South and East Asia.

Just a few years ago, India, with a population of 1.3 billion people, was one of the world’s fastest-growing large economies. It regularly clocked growth of 8 percent or more. 

Global businesses began to warm to the idea of India as a potential substitute to China, both as a place to make goods and to sell them. China’s costs are rising, and its trade war with the United States has complicated doing business there. The Chinese Communist Party is increasingly intruding into business matters, and local Chinese competitors have upped their game against international brands. 

But India’s economy was facing headwinds well before the pandemic. Between April and December 2019, G.D.P. grew only 4.6 percent.

“India was expected to really step into China’s shoes and give that additional boost to globalization that was missing,” said Priyanka Kishore, head of South Asia at Oxford Economics. “And that’s where India didn’t really play out the role it was largely expected to play, and that role seems to be diminishing more and more.” 

Since coming to power in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shaken the economy with policies meant to boost government revenues and help India’s transition to digital banking. Some of the efforts have been embraced by business, such as Mr. Modi’s pledges to slash the country’s vast and tangled web of red tape. 

But other Modi initiatives meant to bring India’s informal, off-the-books economy into the open proved disruptive for many small businesses, which don’t have the resources that big companies can deploy to overhaul how they make payments and keep their books. 

One of Mr. Modi’s policies, called demonetization, banned large currency notes overnight in an effort to crack down on tax avoidance and money laundering. Under another, India replaced its welter of national and state taxes with a single value-added tax, in part to cut down on corruption among tax collectors. 

Mr. Modi also increasingly turned India’s industrial policy inward, which many economists say has hurt overall growth. The country has long nurtured some of the steepest trade barriers of any major economy, to help its domestic industries develop. Mr. Modi added to that in areas like electronics. His government has also tightened rules around e-commerce, to assist Indian businesses that compete with companies like Amazon and Wal-Mart.  

“The slowdown,” said Ms. Kishore, “is almost homegrown.” 

That stumbling economy was dealt a sharp shock by the coronavirus. 

The near-total nationwide lockdown in March brought the economy to a halt, instantly stripping many Indians who rely on daily wages of any prospect of earning money. Millions of workers who over the years had been drawn to India’s urban centers for jobs started returning home to rural areas. 

The economic problems are by no means over. Officials desperate to stimulate business lifted some of the lockdown restrictions, allowing more movement — and further spreading the coronavirus. The country is recording a sharp decline in infections from a September high, but experts fear it is only a lull.

Even after the pandemic wanes, Ms. Kishore projects, India will be the worst-affected among the world’s major economies. Debt-laden companies will have to borrow even more. Growth could fall to 4.5 percent annually over the next five years, well below the 6.5 percent growth that had been projected before Covid-19.

“The worst,” said Dr. Anbumozhi, the economist, citing the potential impact to small business in particular, “is yet to come for India.”





No.13 article:
Covid Overload: U.S. Hospitals Are Running Out of Beds for Patients

As the coronavirus pandemic surges across the country, hospitals are facing a crisis-level shortage of beds and staff to provide adequate care for patients.

In excruciating pain with lesions on her face and scalp, Tracey Fine lay for 13 hours on a gurney in an emergency room hallway.

All around her, Covid-19 patients filled the beds of the hospital in Madison, Wis. Her nurse was so harried that she could not remember Ms. Fine’s condition, and the staff was slow to bring her pain medicine or food.

In a small rural hospital in Missouri, Shain Zundel’s severe headache turned out to be a brain abscess. His condition would typically have required an operation within a few hours, but he was forced to wait a day while doctors struggled to find a neurosurgeon and a bed — finally at a hospital 375 miles away in Iowa.

From New Mexico to Minnesota to Florida, hospitals are teeming with record numbers of Covid patients. Staff members at smaller hospitals have had to beg larger medical centers repeatedly to take one more, just one more patient, but many of the bigger hospitals have sharply limited the transfers they will accept, their own halls and wards overflowing.

In the spring, the pandemic was concentrated mainly in hard-hit regions like New York, which offered lessons to hospitals in other states anticipating the spread of the coronavirus. Despite months of planning, though, many of the nation’s hospital systems are now slammed with a staggering swell of patients, no available beds and widening shortages of nurses and doctors. On any single day, some hospitals have had to turn away transfer requests for patients needing urgent care or incoming emergencies.

And rising infection rates among nurses and other frontline workers have doubled the patient load on those left standing.

There is no end in sight for the nation’s hospitals as the pandemic continues to hammer cities and rural areas across the country, totaling 13 million cases so far this year. And public health experts warn that the holidays may speed the already fast-moving pace of infection, driving the demand for hospital beds and medical care ever higher.

A record number of Americans — 90,000 — are now hospitalized with Covid, and new cases of infection had been climbing to nearly 200,000 daily.

Health care systems “are verging on the edge of breaking,” Dr. Michael Osterholm, a member of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s Covid-19 advisory council, said in a podcast this month.

The public does not realize how dire the situation is, Dr. Osterholm said, and may respond only “when people are dying, sitting in chairs in waiting rooms in emergency rooms for 10 hours to get a bed, and they can’t find one, and then they die.”

When Ms. Fine went to UW Health’s University Hospital in Madison, she found doctors there overwhelmed and distracted. “They just parked me in a hallway because there was no place for me to go,” said Ms. Fine, 61, who was eventually found to have a severe bout of shingles that threatened her eyes.

She had missed her annual checkup or a shingles vaccination because of the pandemic.

Admitted to a makeshift room with curtains separating the beds, Ms. Fine watched the chaos around her. A nurse did not know who she was, asking if she had trouble walking or heard whooshing in her ears. She “was just completely frazzled,” Ms. Fine recalled, though she added that staff members were “kind and caring and did their best under horrifying conditions.”

Workers at the hospital issued a plea last Sunday, published as a two-page ad in The Wisconsin State Journal, asking state residents to help prevent further spread of the virus.

“Without immediate change, our hospitals will be too full to treat all of those with the virus and those with other illnesses or injuries,” they warned. “Soon you or someone you love may need us, but we won’t be able to provide the lifesaving care you need, whether for Covid-19, cancer, heart disease or other urgent conditions. As health care providers, we are terrified of that becoming reality.”

UW Health declined to comment directly on Ms. Fine’s experience, but acknowledged the strains the pandemic has imposed. While patients were sometimes boarded in the emergency room even before the new coronavirus surge, occupancy is now “super high,” said Dr. Jeff Pothof, the group’s chief quality officer.

UW Health is “starting to do things it hasn’t done before,” he said, including enlisting primary care and family doctors to work in the hospital treating seriously ill patients. “It works, but it’s not great,” he said.

Hospitals in St. Louis have been particularly hard-hit in recent weeks, said Dr. Alexander Garza, the chief community health officer for SSM Health, a Catholic hospital group, who also serves as the head of the area task force on the virus. Over the last month, SSM Health turned away about 50 patients that it could not immediately care for.

And nurses — already one of the groups most vulnerable to infection — are adding more and more hours to their shifts.

Hospitals are reassigning nurses to adult intensive care units from pediatric ones, doubling up patients in a single room, and asking nurses, who typically care for two critically ill patients at a time, to cover three or more, he said.

“If you’re not able to dedicate as much time and resources to them, obviously they’re not getting optimal care,” Dr. Garza said.

Consuelo Vargas, an emergency room nurse in Chicago, says patients linger for days in emergency rooms because I.C.U.s are full. The nursing shortage has a cascading effect. It “leads to an increase in patient falls, this leads to bedsores, this leads to delays in patient care,” she said.

Personnel, available beds and protective equipment are fundamentally scarce. At a news conference held by National Nurses United, a union, Ms. Vargas said there was still not enough protective equipment like N95 masks, forcing her to buy her own.

Some hospitals have joined in sounding the alarm: Supplies of testing kits, masks and gloves are running low.

The country never quite caught up from the earlier shortages, Dr. Osterholm said. “We’re just going to run into a wall in terms of P.P.E.,” he said.

Even if hospitals in some cities appear to have enough physical space, or can quickly build new units or set up field hospitals, staff shortages offset any benefit of expansion.

“Beds don’t take care of people; people take care of people,” said Dr. Marc Harrison, the chief executive of Intermountain Healthcare, a sprawling system of hospitals and clinics based in Salt Lake City.

At any given time in recent weeks, a quarter of Intermountain’s nurses were out — sick, quarantining or taking care of a family member felled by the virus. Nursing students have been granted temporary licenses by the state to fill gaps, and the hospital system is scrambling to latch onto travel nurses who are in high demand across many states and expensive to hire.

To relieve pressure on its big hospitals, Intermountain is keeping more patients at its smaller centers, monitored virtually by specialists at the larger hospitals who consult with the local doctors via remote links.

Smaller hospitals are under significant stress. “We don’t have intensive care units,” said Tony Keene, the chief executive of Sullivan County Memorial Hospital, a rural hospital licensed for 25 beds in Milan, Mo. “We don’t perform surgeries or anything like that here. When we have Covid cases, it very much taxes our ability.”

His tiny hospital usually has no more than a half-dozen patients on a busy day, but may now treat twice that number. About a fourth of the hospital’s 100 employees, including Mr. Keene, have come down with the virus since March.

“It is sometimes a daily and hourly struggle to make sure we have adequate staff in the hospital,” he said. The hospital’s nurses, who typically work three 12-hour shifts a week, are taking as many as five or six shifts each week.

“We’re out here by ourselves,” Mr. Keene said. “We don’t have a larger system pumping money into us or something like that.” The hospital used federal Covid aid to invest in medical gas lines so patients could be given oxygen.

The sickest patients still must be transferred, but the larger hospital 35 miles away is awash in its own heavy volume of Covid patients and is reducing staff levels.

Even when hospitals in a community are talking weekly, if not daily, to discuss how to handle the overall spikes in admissions, few have room to spare in areas where numbers keep climbing. Many have reduced or even stopped providing elective surgeries and procedures.

“We’re all concerned about the surges we’re seeing now,” said Nancy Foster, vice president of quality and patient safety policy for the American Hospital Association. Patients who need special medical attention normally can be sent to a nearby urban area, but “many times those referral centers are full or nearly full,” she said.

Mr. Zundel’s case was a matter of life or death. He had a debilitating headache and “was not able to function at all,” he said. A larger hospital nearby was inundated with patients, so his wife, Tessa, took him to a small hospital in rural Missouri to be seen quickly. The doctors there recognized that he had a brain abscess, but could not immediately find a medical center to treat him.

“He was dying,” his wife said. Some hospitals had beds, but no available neurosurgeon. Staff members spent a full day trying to find somewhere he could get an operation.

“They just worked the phone until they found a solution,” she said. “They didn’t give up.”

Mr. Zundel, 48, was finally flown to the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, where Dr. Matthew Howard, a neurosurgeon, performed an operation.

But Iowa is also turning away patients, Dr. Howard said. “Early in the crisis, we were being hammered by limitations in P.P.E. Now, the problem is the beds are full,” he said.

Dr. Dixie Harris, a critical care specialist at Intermountain, had volunteered in New York City during the height of the pandemic last spring. Doctors are now better able to treat the virus and predict the course of the disease, she said.

But they are also stretched very thin, caring for Covid patients in addition to their regular patients. “Almost nobody has had a real vacation,” she said. “People are really tired.”

And readmissions or the lingering health problems of Covid “long haulers” have compounded the intensified regimen for medical care. “Not only are we seeing the tsunami coming, we have that back wave coming,” Dr. Harris said.

Some health care workers say they feel abandoned. “Nurses have been crying out for months and months that this has been a problem, and we really have not gotten rescued,” said Leslie McKamey, a nurse in Bismarck, N.D., and a member of National Nurses United.

“We’re working overtime. We’re working several different jobs,” she said. “We’re really feeling the strain of it.”





No.14 article:
Immanuel Quickley’s Path to the Knicks Started at the Foul Line

Quickley, a guard out of Kentucky, is an exceptional free-throw shooter, a skill he learned from his mother. He had the third highest free-throw percentage in Division I last season.

Even with all of the basketball skills that are hyped and parsed at an N.B.A. draft — scoring, 3-point shooting, rebounding, rim protection, playmaking — it was striking to hear television analysts so focused on Immanuel Quickley’s free-throw shooting last week.

John Calipari, Quickley’s college coach at Kentucky, also mentioned it in a telephone interview the day after the Oklahoma City Thunder took Quickley with the 25th pick. The Thunder had already agreed to send him to the Knicks.

“The kid can flat-out stretch the court,” Calipari said of Quickley’s shooting ability, “score in all kinds of different ways and is a great free-throw shooter.”

Quickley led Kentucky, and was third in Division I last season, with a 92.3 percent rate from the free-throw line. He missed more than one free throw in a game only once last season.

But free throws? Are teams actually picking players because of their free-throw shooting?

Not exactly. After all, Calvin Murphy shot over 90 percent from the line in six different seasons — leading the league twice — in his Hall of Fame N.B.A. career and could still probably make nine of 10 today. But he is 72 and unlikely to make a comeback. Moreover, you don’t win the Southeastern Conference Player of the Year Award, as Quickley did in 2020, just for shooting free throws well.

But good free-throw shooting is often an indication of good overall shooting ability.

A 6-foot-3 guard from Havre de Grace, Md., Quickley was recruited to Kentucky as a point guard, and did some quarterbacking of the offense there. He also played off the ball and led the team in scoring with 16.1 points per game in 2019-20. An average of 4.8 of those points came from the foul line.

Quickley inherited his impeccable free-throw shooting from his mother, Nitrease Quickley, who played at Morgan State in Baltimore. Nitrease Hamilton, as she was known then, led Morgan State in free-throw shooting in both seasons she played for the Bears, shooting 72 percent in her junior season in 1995-96 and 80.3 percent in her senior year. When it came time for a technical foul, she was the one sent to the line.

A teacher for 22 years and now a vice principal in Harford County, Md., Nitrease said that she coached her son’s recreation league team from the time he was 6 and that he still had a trophy in their basement for leading the league in free-throw shooting. Nitrease said she had to talk her son out of going to the gym the night he was drafted.

“He said it was time to get to work,” she said in a telephone interview.

Nitrease taught Immanuel to pick out the “W” shape in the net under the rim as a target, to get his arm into the proper 90-degree angle, keep his feet balanced and follow through. She also emphasized the need to have a piercing mental focus.

“You have to learn to block out the crowd,” she said. “Immanuel made it clear that he did not hear us cheering in the stands, and when it was time to shoot those free throws, he was focused, and that is one of the biggest keys to his success.”

Indeed, a good deal of pressure can be exerted on shooters standing at the line with ample time for overthinking and for gnawing insecurities to bubble to the surface as an entire arena zeros in on them. But Quickley proved he could handle it.

In February, Kentucky was embroiled in an SEC battle against Mississippi State, but Quickley drilled eight consecutive free throws in the final 47 seconds to help the Wildcats hold off the Bulldogs (he made all 14 of his free-throw attempts that night).

There is at least one recent example of a good free-throw shooter from Kentucky going on to later success. Quickley’s free-throw percentage last season was the second best in Kentucky history, behind only Tyler Herro, who shot 93.5 percent from the line in 2018-19. A year later, Herro was the breakout star of last season’s N.B.A. finals run for the Miami Heat, providing 3-point shooting.

Quickley’s percentage at the foul line last season was higher than the best college seasons from the best free-throw shooters in N.B.A. history. At the top of that list was Golden State’s Stephen Curry, who shot 89.4 percent in his best year at Davidson.

Missing free throws is like flushing away easy points. If Shaquille O’Neal had shot 70 percent from the line over his career instead of 52.7 percent, he would have averaged 25.3 points per game instead of 23.7.

The Houston Rockets’ James Harden has led the N.B.A. in free-throw attempts in seven of the past eight seasons. If he shot them as well as Quickley last year, he would have averaged 35 points per game instead of 34.3.

To get to the line consistently like Harden, a player must be an offensive threat and draw contact. Quickley did it as a sophomore after a disappointing freshman year, and then a slow start to the most recent season.

“I was able to get through that in Kentucky,” he said in a video news conference, “so I feel like I can accomplish anything that comes my way.”

As for the N.B.A., Quickley does the things that are most coveted in today’s league, Calipari said, particularly driving into the lane without needing the help of a screen. Quickley also led the Wildcats with a 42.8 percent 3-point rate, so teams will have to honor his shooting, which is what Calipari meant by stretching the court.

The Knicks could use the help, too. They ranked 27th out of 30 N.B.A. teams in 3-point shooting and were dead last in free-throw percentage.

Calipari also said that whatever the Knicks project for Quickley as a professional, he will eventually exceed it because of his persistence and maturity, which Calipari attributed to Quickley’s family.

“If you have a good enough base, when things go wrong you don’t let it rock your world,” Calipari said. “He’s going to be able, even with setbacks, to keep climbing.”





No.15 article:
Churches Step In Where Politicians Will Not

Why do we need acts of charity to rescue Americans from crushing medical bills?

Vanessa Matos couldn’t believe what she was reading. “I was like, OK, this is a scam,” she recalled of the letter she received in February. Her husband, she said, had the same reaction: “Yeah, this isn’t real.”

But it was. Ms. Matos’s medical debt — more than $900 owed because of complications from surgery at the Massachusetts hospital where she had worked as a nurse — had been forgiven by strangers at a church she had never been to.

Adam Mabry, the lead pastor of that congregation, Aletheia Church, a multiethnic, 1,400-member Boston-area Christian community, doesn’t know Ms. Matos, and she doesn’t know him; the two have never spoken. But he told me: “It doesn’t take a theologian to connect the dots. Jesus paid my debt at unbelievable cost to himself, so it probably makes sense for me to pay another person’s debt at some degree of cost to myself.”

Aletheia worked through RIP Medical Debt, a charitable organization founded in 2014 by two former debt collection executives, Craig Antico and Jerry Ashton. It uses donations to buy portfolios of medical debt at a fraction of their value — and then forgives it.

Debt is a particularly destructive consequence of an American health care system that treats medical care as a consumer good. A Kaiser Family Foundation survey in 2018 found that 67 percent of Americans worry about paying for unexpected medical bills. By way of comparison, only 43 percent expressed similar concern about paying monthly utility bills, and just 41 percent cited rent or mortgage payments.

In 2019, the foundation found that 26 percent of adults have either struggled to pay medical bills or live with someone who has. Unpaid medical bills become medical debt, which destroys credit ratings, attracts harassment from collections agencies and postpones or precludes important purchases, including additional care.

In just societies, these debts do not exist. But in our society, charity must stand in for justice so long as the latter is in short supply.

One of RIP Medical Debt’s early fund-raising partners was NBC Universal, which ran a segment about the company’s campaign on its Dallas station in February 2018. The story caught the attention of Covenant Church, an enormous network based in North Texas. That Easter, Covenant donated $100,000 to relieve local families’ medical debt. RIP Medical Debt said since then it has worked with 465 congregations and religious groups to relieve about $820 million in medical debt across the country.

Partners of RIP Medical Debt need not raise the actual amount of money they intend to relieve in debt, because the price of debt reflects what collectors could recover — far less than is owed. That means a buyer can eliminate the debt for much less money than the debtor could.

RIP Medical Debt estimates that just one dollar can purchase, and relieve, $100 in medical debt. So with a series of relatively moderate fund-raising efforts and donations from corporations, nonprofit and religious groups, and individuals, RIP Medical Debt said, it has been able to eliminate almost $2.7 billion in medical debt.

Some religious congregations have donated money from cash reserves, and others from fund-raising drives. But all of them grasp what our legislators can’t: The cost of survival in this country is unconscionable, and we all share a moral obligation to do something about it.

And yet there is still something remarkable — almost miraculous — about this faith-driven debt relief. Although American Christianity is as malformed by the harsh tug of political poles as any other realm, forgiving medical debt has managed to ally very different Christians behind the same cause.

Mr. Mabry, for example, cheekily described his theological stance as “historically boring and orthodox,” even evangelical. Most people “would associate social concern with progressivism and maybe theological liberalism,” he said, but “the great majority of actual social programs are funded and executed by really frustratingly conservative, boring, historic, orthodox people, I think we would find.”

The Rev. Traci Blackmon is associate general minister of justice and local church ministries for the United Church of Christ, a fairly liberal denomination. “The U.C.C. has no rigid formulation of doctrine or attachment to creeds or structures,” the church’s website says. “Its overarching creed is love.”

A recent campaign led by the church abolished more than $26 million in medical debt throughout New England, and the church plans to expand efforts to include the entire country.

Ms. Blackmon, like her denomination, is committed to social justice, having organized protests in Ferguson, Mo., after the police killed Michael Brown, and led an interfaith worship service in Charlottesville, Va., to oppose the 2017 Unite the Right rally. She sees this work as a natural extension of the U.C.C.’s interest in justice. “We’re buying somewhere close to $100 worth of debt for a dollar,” she told me, “and when you think about how many people’s credit is being ruined, how much access is being denied people because they can’t pay that bill, and I can come and pay your $5,000 bill with $12 — that’s not just.”

Mr. Mabry said a similar thing in our conversation. But if Christians so different in creed can agree on the necessity of relieving medical debt, why can’t Democrats?

The trouble with medical debt is that it is a consequence of the way our health care system is structured, with individuals owing, even in the best case, some out-of-pocket costs for their care. Debt may be eliminated today, but more will begin accumulating tomorrow unless drastic changes are made.

Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation, said that while 45 percent of the uninsured have medical bills they can’t pay, one in five people in employer-sponsored coverage do, too.

In 2018, Kaiser asked people with high-deductible employer-sponsored insurance plans how they would pay if a medical procedure cost as much as their full deductible. Only 33 percent felt confident they could pay in full; the rest mentioned credit cards, payment plans, borrowing money — incurring medical debt, in other words.

It’s a reality many may soon face. Covid-19 can be an expensive illness to survive. Health System Tracker, a partnership between Kaiser and the Peterson Center on Healthcare, estimates that out-of-pocket costs for patients with private health insurance hospitalized for Covid-19 treatment can average about $1,300; those who require ventilator support or particularly long hospital stays can face even higher costs.

During his 2020 presidential bid, Senator Bernie Sanders proposed eliminating medical debt and then instituting a universal health care system that would prevent similar costs from building up again.

But President-elect Joe Biden’s record on helping Americans survive crushing debt is not promising. As a senator, he declined to vote for or he voted against measures that would have offered some protection to people suffering from medical debt. And he enthusiastically championed the 2005 bankruptcy bill that made it more difficult for families deep in debt to seek relief through the courts, touching off a feud with Senator Elizabeth Warren.

So far, his health care plan consists of protecting the Affordable Care Act and expanding tax credits and insurance options — better than nothing, but far less than needed.

There is an apocryphal statement often attributed to Saint Augustine, who helped lay the foundations of modern Christian theology: “Charity is no substitute for justice withheld.” Augustine was a proponent of both justice and charity, each with its place in the order of things. It is unfortunate that in the United States — a country so rich, so suffuse with every possible luxury — so many people receive justice only in the form of charity, and only after they have lost so much.





No.16 article:
Pregnant, Exhausted and Turned Back at the Border

MATAMOROS, Mexico — Griselda was 38 weeks pregnant when she sneaked across the Rio Grande into the United States late one night last year. She started having contractions in a Border Patrol facility in McAllen, Texas, and was taken to a hospital where the medical staff gave her an injection to calm her pain and stop her from going into early labor.

Two days later, she was on a crowded bus back to Mexico, moving into a tent camp with hundreds of other migrants who were waiting for permission to enter the United States. When she finally gave birth 10 days later, her tiny daughter joined her there until a local shelter made room for them.

The wide-ranging new controls on immigration put into place under the Trump administration have made it harder for migrants of all kinds to cross the Southern border, but they have been particularly difficult for pregnant women, who often arrive at the border after arduous journeys, in a state of exhaustion.

Previously, many such women would be allowed to petition for asylum and give birth in safety in the United States while their cases were being considered. But most now, like Griselda, are sent swiftly back to Mexico to take their chances in crowded shelters and filthy tent camps. Some are held in U.S. detention facilities for months.

In a petition to the federal courts last year, the American Civil Liberties Union said it had interviewed 18 migrant women who had been detained by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and returned to Mexico. All were facing serious worries over how to give birth safely and keep their babies healthy.

One woman said she was told by a C.B.P. agent that “Trump didn’t want there to be any more pregnant people here,” according to the A.C.L.U.’s court complaint.

When reports of what was happening with women on the border began to emerge, I traveled there to document it. In my work as a photojournalist, I had spent a decade investigating maternal health around the world. It was clear that a potential health crisis, of a kind I had seen in much less-developed countries, was unfolding directly at America’s door.

I was joined by Caitlin Dickerson, a national immigration writer for The Times. We met Griselda in a shelter in Matamoros, in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas, on one of several trips we would take to the region over the coming year.

Our work led to a report on the plight of undocumented women living in the United States who are forgoing prenatal care and giving birth at home because of fears that they could be deported. But our reporting revealed a much wider range of problems faced by pregnant women on the border. Most of the women asked that their last names not be published to avoid jeopardizing their chances of winning legal residence in the United States. Their faces, though, spoke volumes.

Xiomara Quintanilla, 26, was seven months pregnant when she arrived at the border near McAllen, Texas, with her two small children, Brianna, 3, and Dylan, 1. The family had fled El Salvador, crossing the Rio Grande into the United States and asking for asylum. She had spent $9,000 on the 15-day journey, paying smugglers along the way.

Families were often being separated by U.S. immigration authorities at the border at that time, but Ms. Quintanilla decided to endure the risk of traveling while heavily pregnant, and the possibility of being separated from her children. “I came because of the lack of security in El Salvador, and the gangs,” she said. “There is no work there. I have to think about the future of my children.”

In Austin, Texas, Ms. Addario photographed Lisbeth, 29, who had fled the MS13 gang in El Salvador after her husband was targeted. She arrived in the United States near Tijuana and surrendered herself to the Border Patrol.

She had been held in a detention center in Otay Mesa, Calif., for two months — all while in her second trimester of pregnancy. She never received a prenatal exam. She recounted harrowing stories of other pregnant women who had serious health problems at the detention facility. “I watched so many pregnant women having miscarriages and I tried to be strong, because I didn’t want that to happen to me,” she said. She eventually made her way to Austin, where she got an apartment and found a job at a pizza restaurant, earning $13 an hour.

At the tent camp in Matamoros where Griselda was initially staying, Gabriela Maria Hernandez Mendez, 25, was waiting along with her two children for permission to enter the United States as an asylum applicant. She was six months pregnant with a third child.

Gabriela had traveled from Choluteca, Honduras, and was waiting out her pregnancy in a state of purgatory. She had undergone a prenatal exam with a midwife in the customs building in Matamoros, but had no idea what would happen to her growing family.

“I am worried for my kids,” she said. “What if they get sick? Where will we sleep? Eat?”

Among the hundreds of asylum seekers waiting at the camp in Matamoros to present their cases in the United States, more than a dozen were, like Gabriela, expecting children. Many had been living there for months, with little possibility of returning home, either because their money had run out or because it was even more dangerous where they came from.

The conditions at the camp were dismal, sometimes freezing at night and sweltering in the day. There was an outbreak of Covid-19 over the summer.

Some of the expectant mothers, like Griselda, have been able to find a space in a shelter, with warm beds and protection from the elements.

But some of the women have grown tired of waiting, and have tried to cross the river. A few of them are lucky enough to be picked up by Border Patrol agents and released to a migrant shelter in the United States.

But for many others, the verdict is quick and harsh: a bus ride back to Mexico.





No.17 article:
A Job for Life, or Not? A Class Divide Deepens in Japan

Two court rulings threaten to further entrench distinctions in Japan between “regular” workers and the growing ranks of nonregular employees, many of whom are women.

TOKYO — For more than a decade, Setsuko Hikita spent her working days selling snacks and newspapers in the bowels of Tokyo’s bustling metro system.

Amid the chaos of morning commutes and the scramble to catch the last train home, she kept her employers’ tiny kiosks a haven of well-ordered commerce. Her company once awarded her a citation for her dedication and hard work.

What it did not give her was equal pay.

Over a 10-year period, Ms. Hikita earned about $90,000 less than many of her co-workers, and she was denied benefits like a retirement allowance. It wasn’t because they had more experience or were more competent. It was just that they had lifetime employment status and she did not.

So Ms. Hikita sued. Last month, after more than six years, the country’s Supreme Court rendered a verdict: Her employer was under no obligation to provide her with the same retirement allowance — a lump-sum payment on leaving the company — it gave colleagues who did identical work.

The ruling is one of two recent court decisions that threaten to further entrench the longstanding divide in Japan between so-called regular workers, who have lifetime employment and attendant benefits, and the growing ranks of nonregular workers, many of whom are women.

The effects of these divisions have been especially pronounced during the coronavirus pandemic. When Japan’s economy faced its worst months in late spring and early summer, companies cut loose tens of thousands of nonregular workers, with women bearing the brunt of the job losses. Many regular employees were put on furlough, retaining their positions.

Concerns about the precarious state of nonregular workers long predate the pandemic.

Employers have for years chipped away at the system of lifetime employment that evolved in Japan after World War II, arguing that increased flexibility to hire and fire employees will increase economic efficiency. Now, nearly 37 percent of the country’s labor force, or more than 20.6 million workers, are nonregular employees, according to the latest government statistics, up from around 16 percent in the early 1980s.

Among Japanese women in the work force, more than half are nonregular employees — an example of the limits of Japan’s push in recent years to elevate women in the workplace, a program known as womenomics.

Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, addressing Parliament this month, emphasized the need to fight rising unemployment among nonregular workers, and women in particular, pledging to “firmly take necessary measures.”

Promises like these sound all too familiar to labor activists. They fear that the Supreme Court’s decisions have “thrown cold water” on such vows to reform the system, said Shigeru Wakita, professor emeritus of labor law at Ryukoku University.

Japanese law mandates that companies avoid “unreasonable” differences in how they treat employees, but the meaning of the term is ill-defined. In the case of Ms. Hikita’s lawsuit and a separate suit brought by a female employee at a medical school in Osaka, judges ruled that the organizations had not violated that standard despite vast gaps in compensation and other benefits.

“If the courts don’t recognize this case as unreasonable, then what on earth is unreasonable?” asked Mitsuteru Suda, chairman of a labor union in Tokyo.

A tentative answer to that question came when the court issued a third ruling last month on conditions for nonregular workers. The judges ruled in favor of plaintiffs who had sued their employer, Japan Post, after it refused to pay them overtime to help with the spike in deliveries around New Year’s, Japan’s most important holiday.

But even that ruling is likely to further legitimize the prevailing employment system, Mr. Suda said. While the ruling will force the company to reassess its employment practices, it found fault only with the degree of discrimination, not the practice itself.

“The ruling stands on the side of the employers, giving a stamp of approval of discrimination,” he said. “That is unacceptable.”

In the Japanese employment system, the line between regular and nonregular workers is drawn early, and the result is a sharp class divide.

Each fall, companies across the country hold recruitment drives for high school and college students who will graduate in the spring. For many, the monthslong process is the most important period of their lives.

Those who find jobs will win employment for life. Those who do not are cast into the wilderness of irregular employment.

Regular workers, known as seishain, receive two annual bonuses, each typically worth at least one month’s salary and sometimes much more. They have benefits, which can include housing. They are nearly impossible to fire. And they get a generous pension plan.

By contrast, nonregular workers can be fired much more easily. They are paid less, and employers are not required to provide them with the same level of benefits that their regularly employed colleagues receive.

Midcareer hiring that brings nonregular workers into the regular work force has increased in recent years, said Andrew Gordon, a professor at Harvard who specializes in the history of labor in Japan. But it remains rare.

Businesses employing regular workers right out of school like to argue, he said, that “we’re not hiring people with specialized knowledge and experience, but we’re hiring human capital that can be formed.”

“They fear that somebody from the outside won’t be able to adjust to their particular company’s way of doing things even though, functionally speaking, it might not be that different,” he added.

Lifetime employment is an artifact of the postwar era. As Japan tried to rebuild its devastated economy and demand for labor skyrocketed, the country’s companies made a pact with its workers: They would guarantee that their material needs would be met until the day they died. In exchange, employees would stay with their company for life and devote themselves entirely to its success.

The jobs went mostly to men. Their wives were expected to stay home and support their husbands’ grueling schedules.

Through the 1980s, Japan’s humming economy meant that most employees landed in lifetime employment. But the system began to change in the 1990s, after the country’s economic bubble popped and companies demanded more freedom in labor decisions.

In the following years, laws began changing to favor employers. By the end of the 2008 financial crisis, the number of nonregular workers had risen drastically.

A 2013 law attempted to address this disparity, mandating that employers convert nonregular workers to seishain after five years and that differences in their employment conditions should not be “unreasonable.”

But the law has had little impact because of loopholes and its loose definition of what constitutes “unreasonable” differences.

Those weak points became the basis for the lawsuit filed by Ms. Hikita and three others against their employer, Metro Commerce.

Several decades ago, the company routinely hired 20 to 30 lifetime employees annually. Now, it adds only two or three each year.

For Ms. Hikita, her life as a nonregular employee began at the age of 54, when she moved back to Tokyo after a divorce. Her starting wage at Metro Commerce was 1,000 yen an hour, or less than $10 an hour at current exchange rates. Ten years later, she was making only 1,050.

“When I started at the company, I thought everyone was equal,” she said. But she quickly discovered that “there was a difference between contract employees and lifetime employees.”

She decided to sue in 2014 after learning that her co-workers were getting annual bonuses four to five times as large as hers.

After she left the company the next year, she was working three jobs to cover the payments on her home, she said. She worked every day that year.

Since filing her suit, Ms. Hikita said, she has learned that “there are an incredible number of us across the country” facing employment discrimination. The message from the Supreme Court, she added, is clear: “We’re all disposable.”





No.18 article:
Should Trump Be Prosecuted?

Being president should mean you are more accountable, not less, to the rule of law.

When the Biden administration takes office in 2021, it will face a unique, fraught decision: Should Donald Trump be criminally investigated and prosecuted?

Any renewed investigative activity or a criminal prosecution would further divide the country and stoke claims that the Justice Department was merely exacting revenge. An investigation and trial would be a spectacle that would surely consume the administration’s energy.

But as painful and hard as it may be for the country, I believe the next attorney general should investigate Mr. Trump and, if warranted, prosecute him for potential federal crimes.

I do not come to this position lightly. Indeed, we have witnessed two U.S. presidential elections in which large crowds have found it acceptable to chant with fervent zeal that the nominee of the opposing party should be jailed. We do not want to turn into an autocratic state, where law enforcement authorities are political weapons of the reigning party.

But that is not sufficient reason to let Mr. Trump off the hook.

Mr. Trump’s criminal exposure is clear. I was a senior member of the investigation led by the former special counsel Robert Mueller to determine whether Russia attempted to subvert our fundamental democratic source of political legitimacy: our electoral system. Among other things, he was tasked with determining whether Mr. Trump interfered with our fact-finding into this issue.

We amassed ample evidence to support a charge that Mr. Trump obstructed justice. That view is widely shared. Shortly after our report was issued, hundreds of former prosecutors concluded that the evidence supported such a charge.

What precedent is set if obstructing such an investigation is allowed to go unpunished and undeterred? It is hard enough for the executive branch to investigate a sitting president, who has the power to fire a special counsel (if needed, through the attorney general) and to thwart cooperation with an investigation by use of the clemency power. We saw Mr. Trump use his clemency power to do just that with, for example, his ally Roger Stone. He commuted Mr. Stone’s sentence, who was duly convicted by a jury but never spent a day in jail for crimes that a federal judge found were committed for the president. The same judge found that Paul Manafort, a former Trump campaign chairman, lied to us repeatedly, breaching his cooperation agreement. He, too, was surely holding out hope for a dangled pardon.

Mr. Trump can’t point to what the special counsel investigation did not find (e.g., “collusion”) when he obstructed that very investigation. The evidence against Mr. Trump includes the testimony of Don McGahn, Mr. Trump’s former White House counsel, who detailed how the president ordered the firing of the special counsel and how when that effort was reported in the press, Mr. Trump beseeched Mr. McGahn to deny publicly the truth and, for safe measure, memorialize that falsity in a written memorandum.

The evidence includes Mr. Trump’s efforts to influence the outcome of a deliberating jury in the Manafort trial and his holding out the hope for a pardon to thwart witnesses from cooperating with our investigation. Can anyone even fathom a legitimate reason to dangle a pardon?

His potential criminal liability goes further, to actions before taking office. The Manhattan district attorney is by all appearances conducting a classic white-collar investigation into tax and bank fraud, and the New York attorney general is engaged in a civil investigation into similar allegations, which could quickly turn into a criminal inquiry.

These state matters may well reveal evidence warranting additional federal charges. Such potential financial crimes were not explored by the special counsel investigation and could reveal criminal evidence. Any evidence that was not produced to Congress in its inquiries, like internal State Department and White House communications, is another potential trove to which the new administration should have access.

The matters already set out by the special counsel and under investigation are not trivial; they should not raise concerns that Mr. Trump is being singled out for something that would not be investigated or prosecuted if committed by anyone else.

Because some of the activities in question predated his presidency, it would be untenable to permit Mr. Trump’s winning a federal election to immunize him from consequences for earlier crimes. We would not countenance that result if a former president was found to have committed a serious violent crime.

Sweeping under the rug Mr. Trump’s federal obstruction would be worse still. The precedent set for not deterring a president’s obstruction of a special counsel investigation would be too costly: It would make any future special counsel investigation toothless and set the presidency de facto above the law. For those who point to the pardon of Richard Nixon by Gerald Ford as precedent for simply looking forward, that is not analogous: Mr. Nixon paid a very heavy price by resigning from the presidency in disgrace for his conduct.

Mr. Trump may very well choose to pardon not just his family and friends before leaving office but also himself in order to avoid federal criminal liability. This historic turn of events would have no effect on his potential criminal exposure at the state level. If Mr. Trump bestows such pardons, states like New York should take up the mantle to see that the rule of law is upheld. And pardons would not preclude the new attorney general challenging a self-pardon or the state calling the pardoned friends and family before the grand jury to advance its investigation of Mr. Trump after he leaves office (where, if they lied, they would still risk charges of perjury and obstruction).

In short, being president should mean you are more accountable, not less, to the rule of law.





No.19 article:
Geoffrey Palmer, Judi Dench’s Sitcom Co-Star, Is Dead at 93

Their show “As Time Goes By” was a hit in Britain and had a following in the U.S. “When you acted with him,” Ms. Dench said, “you’d just feel very safe.”

Geoffrey Palmer, a British character actor whose career peaked during the long run of “As Time Goes By,” the romantic BBC sitcom in which he and Judi Dench played lovers reunited after 38 years apart, died on Nov. 5 at his home in Buckinghamshire, near London. He was 93.

His agent, Deborah Charlton, confirmed the death.

Mr. Palmer, worked in films and theater but was best known for his work in television, including comedies like “The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin” and “Butterflies” as well as several episodes of “Doctor Who.”

His hangdog expression and grumpy demeanor also made a memorable appearance on a 1979 episode of the sitcom “Fawlty Towers,” in which he played a guest who finds it difficult to get his breakfast order while Basil Fawlty (John Cleese), the hapless proprietor of a run-down hotel, is hiding a corpse.

“I’m a doctor,” Mr. Palmer says to a waiter, with great exasperation. “I want my sausages!”

Over 67 episodes between 1992 and 2005, “As Time Goes By” became popular in Britain (and on PBS stations in the United States) largely because of the chemistry between Mr. Palmer and Ms. Dench.

“When you acted with him, you’d just feel very safe,” she told Radio Times, the British television and radio magazine, after Mr. Palmer’s death. “Geoffers was so sure on comedy that you could be pretty secure knowing he would get you through it and make it funny.”

Mr. Palmer’s character on “As Time Goes By,” Lionel Hardcastle, had been a coffee planter in Kenya. Ms. Dench portrayed Jean Pargetter, the owner of a secretarial agency. They fell in love in 1953, before the British Army sent Lionel to serve in Korea. A letter he had written to Jean with his military address never arrived, and they went about their lives.

They reunite in a bar in England.

“Why didn’t you write?” she asks in that scene.

“Let’s not play games,” he says. “Why didn’t you write?”

“Where to?” she asks. “Second Lieutenant Hardcastle, somewhere in Korea?”

“I sent you the full address as soon as I had one,” he says.

“I didn’t get a letter,” she says firmly.

“Well, I sent it,” he says with finality, then quickly realizes all they had missed.

“As ridiculously simple as that?” he asks, with a chuckle. “A lost letter?”

Mr. Palmer and Ms. Dench appeared in two films together in 1997: the James Bond movie “Tomorrow Never Dies” and “Mrs. Brown,” in which Mr. Palmer played the private secretary to Ms. Dench’s Queen Victoria.

Mr. Palmer told The Chicago Tribune in 1999 that Ms. Dench “is an actress who anyone would give their eyeteeth to work with.”

“She drags you up to her standards,” he added. “She’s extraordinary.”

Geoffrey Dyson Palmer was born on June 4, 1927, in London. His father was a surveyor, his mother a homemaker.

After serving in the Royal Marines as World War II was ending, Mr. Palmer joined an amateur theater group while working as an accountant. After becoming the assistant stage manager of the Grand Theater in Croydon, he began acting in regional theater.

He got his first television roles in the mid-1950s. Early in the ’60s he appeared on “The Saint,” with Roger Moore, and in three episodes of “The Avengers,” in three different roles.

He mixed television, film and stage roles for the rest of his career; did voice-over work for commercials; and narrated “Grumpy Old Men,” a BBC talk show on which men aired their gripes about modern life, from 2003 to 2006.

His recent film roles included a geographer in “Paddington” (2015), about a bear looking for a home in London, and Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin in “W.E” (2011), which was inspired by the romance between King Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson.

His survivors include his wife, Sally (Green) Palmer; a son, Charles; and a daughter, Harriet.

The last season of “As Time Goes By” consisted of two episodes in 2005, sort of a Christmas reunion, to wrap up the series. Mr. Palmer said that the impetus for the revival, two years after the previous episodes had aired, came from the United States.

“It is ludicrously popular over there,” he told The Times of London. “I think it’s because it’s rather understated, English and well mannered, and nobody is seen in full-frontal nudity.”





No.20 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.21 article:
How Democrats Suffered Crushing Down-Ballot Losses Across America

In statehouse races, suburban voters’ disgust with President Trump failed to translate into a rebuke of other Republicans, ensuring the party’s grip on partisan mapmaking.

WEXFORD, Pa. — Just a few seats shy of a majority in the State House of Representatives, Democrats in Pennsylvania this year zeroed in on Republican-held suburban districts, where disdain for President Trump ran hot.

One of their prime targets was in the North Hills suburbs outside Pittsburgh, which are home to big brick houses, excellent public schools and “the fastest-trending Democratic district in the state,” according to Emily Skopov, the Democratic nominee for an open seat there, who gamely knocked on the doors of Republican voters in the days before Nov. 3.

She was half right. Joseph R. Biden Jr. carried Pennsylvania’s House District 28, after Mr. Trump had won it by nine percentage points in 2016.

But Ms. Skopov, the founder of a nonprofit group who positioned herself as a moderate, was defeated.

Across the country, suburban voters’ disgust with Mr. Trump — the key to Mr. Biden’s election — did not translate into a wide rebuke of other Republicans, as Democrats had expected after the party made significant gains in suburban areas in the 2018 midterm elections. From the top of the party down to the state level, Democratic officials are awakening to the reality that voters may have delivered a one-time verdict on Mr. Trump that does not equal ongoing support for center-left policies.

“There’s a significant difference between a referendum on a clown show, which is what we had at the top of the ticket, and embracing the values of the Democratic ticket,” said Nichole Remmert, Ms. Skopov’s campaign manager. “People bought into Joe Biden to stop the insanity in the White House. They did not suddenly become Democrats.”

That dawning truth is evident in the narrower majority that House Democrats will hold in Congress next year, and especially in the blood bath that the party suffered in legislative races in key states around the country, despite directing hundreds of millions of dollars and deploying top party figures like former President Barack Obama to obscure down-ballot elections.

This year, Democrats targeted a dozen state legislative chambers where Republicans held tenuous majorities, including in Pennsylvania, Texas, Arizona, North Carolina and Minnesota. Their goal was to check the power of Republicans to redraw congressional and legislative districts in 2021, and to curb the rightward drift of policies from abortion to gun safety to voting rights.

But in all cases, Democrats came up short. None of their targeted legislative chambers flipped, even though Mr. Biden carried many of the districts that down-ballot Democrats did not. It could make it harder for Democrats to retain a House majority in 2022.

“In 2018 in the Philadelphia suburbs, you had rage voting against Trump,” said Senator Bob Casey Jr. of Pennsylvania, a Democrat. But this year, with Mr. Trump on the ballot, the president brought out many more supporters who are occasional voters, diluting what Democrats had widely anticipated would be another wave election for them. “It may be suburban voters are still ticket splitters,” Mr. Casey said.

In the aftermath, moderate Democrats are feuding with progressives over whether policies that excite the party’s base, such as higher taxes to pay for social programs, policing overhauls and a rapid move away from fossil fuels, are a losing message with swing voters. Progressives have responded that moderate candidates aren’t offering voters an affirmative program to improve their lives.

Ms. Skopov echoed a Virginia congresswoman, Abigail Spanberger, who heatedly told House Democrats on a private call after the election that the party must banish the words “socialism” and “defund the police,” after Republicans defeated moderate Democrats tagged with those positions, often inaccurately, in swing House districts across the country.

On Twitter, Ms. Skopov wrote that she had been “a casualty/collateral damage of this offensively poor messaging.” 

Mr. Biden’s winning margin of over six million in the popular vote obscured how narrow his Electoral College victory was: He carried three battleground states — Arizona, Georgia and Wisconsin — by fewer than 44,000 total votes.

“One of the big questions is whether a Trumpist 2024 candidate can be a little bit milder so as to not alienate the suburbs, yet still inspire the low-propensity Republicans to vote at 2020 levels,” said J.J. Balaban, a Democratic strategist in Pennsylvania. “If they can pull that off, it’s going to be a very hard environment for Democrats.”

In the run-up to Election Day, the major legislative campaign committees for each party, along with independent groups, poured record sums of money into races. For Democrats, the aim was to take electoral districting power away from Republicans, who after a red wave in 2010, drew gerrymandered maps that favored the party’s candidates.

The blue wave of 2018 left Democrats just a few seats away from a majority in a dozen chambers, including Arizona’s House and Senate; statehouses in Iowa, Michigan, Texas and Pennsylvania; and both the North Carolina House and Senate.

Democrats’ failure to flip any of their targeted chambers means that Republicans will have control next year of 20 state governments that will collectively draw 188 congressional districts, according to one analysis. In a bright spot for Democrats, the party is closing in on a supermajority in the New York Senate. That outcome would help give Democrats control of mapmaking in states with a total of 73 House districts.

(An additional 167 districts will be in states with divided governments or where independent commissions draw electoral maps.)

Republican mapmakers will seek to dilute the emerging Democratic strength in the nation’s suburbs by packing some of those voters into urban districts while joining others to conservative rural districts.

“The most important consequence of the elections is that Republicans prevented a decade of liberal gerrymandering and gave Republicans the chance to take back the House in 2022,” said David Abrams, the deputy executive director of the Republican State Leadership Committee, which raised money for state races.

Texas was Democrats’ biggest failure. After flipping a dozen seats in the Statehouse two years ago, the party was just nine seats shy of a majority.

Its most likely opportunities were nine Republican-held districts where former Representative Beto O’Rourke surpassed Senator Ted Cruz in their 2018 Senate race.

Most of these districts were in the suburbs of Dallas and Houston. Yet Democrats failed in all but one of the nine races, although Mr. Biden carried many of the districts. With majorities in both legislative chambers and a Republican governor, Greg Abbott, Republicans will control the drawing of as many as 39 congressional seats next year, when Texas is projected to gain three House seats after the 2020 census, more than any other state.

“I think that there were voters out there who were disgusted with Donald Trump and saw Joe Biden as an alternative,” said State Representative Chris Turner, the chair of the Texas House Democratic Caucus. “They said, ‘You know what, I’m not a Democrat — maybe I’m an independent, maybe I’m a moderate Republican — I’m going to vote for Republicans down-ballot.’”

Mr. Turner said Republicans successfully nationalized the races by accusing down-ballot Democrats of seeking to defund the police, favoring socialism and aiming to ban fossil fuels, even though none backed that agenda.

“I do think the Republican attacks, false as they were, made voters question whether we could be trusted in terms of public safety or the energy industry,” he said.

In Arizona, a state that Mr. Biden won by about 10,500 votes in the latest count, the president-elect became only the second Democratic presidential candidate to win the state since 1948, largely by carrying the demographically evolving Phoenix suburbs.

But Democrats hoping to gain majorities in the State Legislature — where they needed just three seats in the Senate and two in the House — came up short. Republicans retained control.

In the Phoenix suburb of Chandler, a Democrat won a Statehouse seat in 2018, in a district no Republican had ever lost.

This year, outside groups spent $1.3 million trying to unseat the Republican state senator from Chandler, J.D. Mesnard. Although Mr. Biden carried the district, Mr. Mesnard won by an even larger margin than two years ago.

“Those voters, it seems like they registered their protest at the top of the ticket and then reverted back to their typical voting behavior down-ballot,” said Charlie Fisher, the executive director of the Arizona Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee.

Although the State Democratic Party encouraged candidates to run on local issues, Republican messaging in Arizona, too, succeeded in tarring moderate Democrats with threatening public safety.

But Mr. Fisher disagreed that Democrats needed to back off progressive policies.

“I always reject this notion — it’s either we’re all in on progressive policies or on trying to persuade independents and moderates to join us,” he said. “That’s a false choice. What we need to do is both those things. The energy of our party is coming from the progressives. We absolutely need to grow those numbers. But in Arizona we still need to communicate with independent voters.”

Pennsylvania may have been the most frustrating state for Democrats down-ballot.

Two years ago, its candidates flipped a net of five Senate seats and 11 in the House. All of the House pickups came in the Philadelphia suburbs, which were also the key to Mr. Biden’s victory this month.

But Republicans retained their majorities in both chambers. Ms. Skopov, the losing candidate in suburban Pittsburgh, was quick to tell voters while knocking on doors before the election: “I’m a fan of our police. I’m not looking to defund police.”

Still, she was hammered in mailings by Republicans who portrayed her as having an anti-law-enforcement position, which her campaign manager, Ms. Remmert, said did great damage.

Ms. Remmert cautioned that if Democrats hoped to cement their 2020 suburban gains in a presidential race in which Republicans put up someone less divisive than Mr. Trump, they would need to recalibrate their messaging.

“A lot of the suburban districts that you’re trying to flip, you can’t win by just turning out your base,” she said. “We could get every Democratic vote in those districts and you’re still not going to win. You have to be able to turn out independents and Republican voters for your message.”





No.22 article:
It’s 2020, So of Course Mike Tyson Is Boxing Again

The return offers started coming when videos of Tyson sparring at age 54 gained steam online. They landed on a bout with Roy Jones Jr., another champion from long ago.

Mike Tyson is back for a pay-per-view fight. Well, not exactly a fight. (“It’s an exhibition bout between two former champions,” said a seemingly exasperated Andy Foster, the California State Athletic Commission executive officer. “I don’t know another way to put it.”)

Somehow, Tyson’s being back in the ring is a natural cap to 2020. A documentary series in the spring allowed millions to watch Michael Jordan’s Chicago Bulls run it back. The Fresh Prince recently returned to Bel-Air alongside the original Aunt Viv. Prince Akeem will soon be coming back to America from Zamunda, courtesy of Eddie Murphy.

We reside in an era saturated in nostalgia, rampant with reruns in service of our need for safe, constant pandemic entertainment.

Relentless news cycles make it difficult to imagine a hopeful tomorrow. We hug the familiarity of what we know.

None of those previous revivals, of course, required much physicality. Jordan only had to lace up his shoes to sit down for interviews.

Tyson is 54. Ronald Reagan worked from the Oval Office when Tyson destroyed Trevor Berbick in 1986 to become the youngest heavyweight champion at the age of 20. George W. Bush was president during Tyson’s final official boxing match, a biting loss to a journeyman, Kevin McBride, which made clear that at 39, Tyson was no longer “Iron Mike” to serious pugilists.

On Saturday, he will fight Roy Jones Jr., 51, another once-skilled boxer long past being past his prime. (“This exhibition, I can understand the appeal for it,” said Steve Farhood, a Showtime boxing analyst, adding: “You can’t expect much. You can train your body as much as you want, you’re still 50-something years old.”)

But nostalgia sells, and Tyson always proved a draw.

And if you’re thinking that Tyson needs the money, no, that is apparently not the case. His cannabis company appears lucrative. The fight (“If you know anything about his fighting career, he’s been done for a while; a long time,” said Louis Moore, a boxing historian and professor at Grand Valley State University) will earn funds for several charities under the umbrella of the Mike Tyson Cares foundation.

“Why can’t I do something bigger than me?” Tyson said during a recent telephone call, while acknowledging that he is known to be selfish. “Like I said: ‘Why do I always have to think about me? Why can’t I think about somebody else for once in my life?’”

The roots of the exhibition, scheduled at Staples Center in Los Angeles, began with the same catalyst that has caused many a man to fall.

“Ego,” Tyson said — not “temporary insanity,” as the former champion George Foreman claimed.

“Everything is a reason in my life,” Tyson said. “I do everything for a reason.”

He said he was more than 100 pounds overweight, felt labored walking a block and didn’t like how he looked in the mirror. He started eating vegan and training again inside the ring when he felt something familiar.

“The first time I ever boxed, boom, I get hit to the side, my ribs crack,” Tyson said of his return. “Boom, I get hit in the jaw a couple times. And you know what? It never once came to my mind to say, ‘What the hell am I doing here?’ I sort of said, ‘I’m in the right place.’”

He posted a couple of sparring videos that quickly went viral.

“I had no idea that I was going to get like 2.5 billion impressions,” Tyson said. “I didn’t think it was that important. To me, what is that about? I’m not much of the internet kind of guy. I don’t understand that world. You know what I’m talking about?”

Yes.

“I have no idea about it. I don’t look at YouTube. I mean, I’m starting to look at YouTube for music. I didn’t know it had so many stories.”

Opportunities and offers poured in. “Oh listen,” Tyson said. “At first, it was the M.M.A. fight with Bob Sapp. Then it was Tyson Fury. Then it was Shannon Briggs, and now it’s Roy Jones. So I don’t know how we got from Mr. Sapp to Roy Jones Jr., but that was the route we went.”

The World Boxing Council announced the creation of yet another belt for Saturday night’s bout, the Frontline Battle Belt. The main event is scheduled for eight rounds of two minutes each. The night will be presented not by a legacy boxing network but by Triller, a social video app that raised money from entertainers with the elevator pitch of establishing a U.S.-based TikTok alternative.

The Tyson-Jones matchup is the calculated culmination of an evening of spectacle from beginning to end. Rappers including DaBaby, Lil Wayne and French Montana are scheduled to perform live. Ne-Yo will sing the national anthem. There is merchandise on sale.

Tyson and Jones may not even be the most improbable bout. The undercard features a match between the YouTube personality Jake Paul and the former Knicks player and dunk specialist Nate Robinson.

The event is the first of an envisioned series produced under a new venture called Mike Tyson’s Legends Only League, owned by Tyson and the media executive Sophie Watts’s Eros Innovations, which hopes to feature notable retired athletes from a litany of sports — Formula One, tennis, basketball — competing again.

“It was Mike’s idea to kick off the league with his own fight,” said Watts, adding that she is planning four calendar events in 2021.

During the interview, Tyson imagined other boxers participating in bouts for charity, like Fury, Deontay Wilder, Floyd Mayweather and Oscar De La Hoya. “That would be powerful,” he said. “My ego would mean nothing. That would do off my ego, if we all got together.”

This is another act in Tyson’s winding life, with the seniority of someone who perhaps did not envision making it this far. “I know it seems different, me being who I was before and who I’m becoming and trying to become in life, but that’s just what it is,” Tyson said. “I didn’t choose this route. I wasn’t navigating. I’m very grateful to be alive. I learned a lot of gratitude.”

Tyson’s boxing debut introduced him as “the hunter, the pressure fighter who will try to push his opponent’s nose bone into his brain, as he once famously said,” Farhood said.

A rape conviction and prison stint marked a steep downfall. Three decades later, an environment of tolerant silence has changed with regard to abuse in the world of sports and entertainment.

“During the time when this happened, it was fairly rampant but just underreported” among many famous men in sports, said Miki Turner, a former sports columnist who is an assistant professor at the University of Southern California teaching journalism. She added: “I’m glad that this movement has really emerged and really sort of shaken all the nuts from the trees.”

Tyson said that until his downfall he was too self-centered. “I didn’t want to be humble. I got humbled. Life beat me into submission,” he said. “I lost my babies, I lost people I loved and it just — I had to get it together and found my head. And it could be me. I could be gone tomorrow or 10 minutes from now. You know what I mean? I’m not no religious freak, man, don’t get me wrong, OK?”

Tyson’s career ended after he was knocked out by journeymen in consecutive matches and encountered financial issues. Then came a memorable cameo in 2009’s bro-comedy, “The Hangover”; a book; a documentary; a live one-man show; and his role as an often introspective, entertaining podcast co-host.

“I just know there’s something greater than me,” he said. “It’s up there somewhere, you know. Some kind of way.”

Tyson believes today’s heavyweight division would have the potential for more excitement if the premier boxers fought more frequently.

“Boxing will always have superstars and megastars,” Tyson said. “But don’t matter how big they are, they’re still not bigger than boxing. Boxing will survive.”

In an ideal world, Tyson said, he would be journeying with his son, Miguel, who visited Haiti with a missionary.

“He was in these earthquake-ridden, war-ridden countries, and he feeds people and builds them dams with the missionary,” he said. “A perfect world, that’s where I would be in a perfect world.”

This being 2020, it is not that perfect world. But Saturday should at least be an interesting night.

Mike Tyson is again scheduled to fight. (“We expect it to be a spirited exhibition, a good exhibition of boxing skills, but it’s an exhibition,” Foster said.)

His goal is as it was 30 years ago: to land as many punches as hard as he can.

“No one,” he said, “is going to be disappointed.”





No.23 article:
Edward J. Perkins, 92, Dies; First Black U.S. Envoy to South Africa

He also held ambassadorial postings in Liberia and Australia and, as director general, helped diversify the elite, mostly white Foreign Service.

When Edward J. Perkins was a student at a segregated school in Pine Bluff, Ark., his history teacher taught the class about the brutal racial oppression in South Africa. It was even worse, the students were told, than what they as Black people were experiencing in the American South.

The teacher urged her students to donate what little change they had to the African National Congress, in support of its struggle against white minority rule.

Dr. Perkins recalled that lesson often when he became the United States’ first Black ambassador to South Africa, serving during the last bitter decade of the system that had come to be called apartheid.

“We were Black teenagers in the middle of Arkansas, young people discriminated against ourselves, Black boys and girls who could barely find South Africa on a map,” he recalled in a memoir, “Mr. Ambassador: Warrior for Peace,” written with Connie Cronley and published in 2006.

“But,” he added, “we contributed our pennies and nickels for this noble fight.”

Ambassador Perkins died on Nov. 7 at a hospital in Washington. He was 92. His daughter Katherine Perkins said the cause was complications of a stroke.

Dr. Perkins, whose grandparents had been born into slavery, rose to the upper reaches of the State Department.

In addition to his ambassadorial postings, which also included Liberia and Australia, he became director general of the Foreign Service and helped recruit young officers from beyond the Ivy League. He became U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and in 1992 served as U.S. representative to the United Nations Security Council.

After he retired from the Foreign Service in 1996, he spent a dozen years at the University of Oklahoma, directing its International Programs Center and teaching geopolitics.

“We just lost a giant of diplomacy,” Susan Rice, who served as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in the Obama administration, wrote on Twitter after Dr. Perkins’s death. “Pioneer among African Americans, champion of a diverse Foreign Service.”

In addition to recruiting people of color, women and people from places like Appalachia, Ambassador Perkins oversaw the hiring of Avraham Rabby, the first blind person in the diplomatic corps. (Mr. Rabby died in May at 77.)

His most challenging assignment was South Africa, where he was appointed ambassador by President Ronald Reagan in 1986.

The United States, like much of the world, was embroiled in a fierce debate over how to try bringing an end to apartheid. Congress had overridden a Reagan veto and imposed stringent economic sanctions.

Reagan had tried to fend off the vote by promising to impose sanctions on his own — and by appointing Dr. Perkins the first Black ambassador to South Africa.

Concerned that Reagan was naming a Black ambassador as a symbolic gesture because he did not want to confront South Africa in a substantive way, some Black leaders urged Dr. Perkins to refuse the appointment. Among them was the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader, who told reporters that having Dr. Perkins serve as the intermediary between Reagan and President P.W. Botha of South Africa would put him in “the same humiliating posture of asking a Jewish person to be a messenger between Hitler and a reactionary administration.”

But Dr. Perkins’s wife reminded him that as a member of the Foreign Service he had vowed to go wherever he was needed. He accepted the posting.

“Apartheid South Africa was on fire around me,” he wrote in his memoir.

When he presented his credentials to President Botha, the two instantly engaged in a test of wills.

“President Botha was standing one step above me,” Dr. Perkins, an imposing 6-foot-3 figure, wrote.

“I suspect that the ceremony was choreographed so that he would tower over me and I would look up at him,” he added, “but he is a short man and we stood looking one another straight in the eye. I was determined not to avert my gaze until he did.”

As the ambassador handed over his credentials, Mr. Botha had to look down, at which point he lost the staring contest.

Their relationship remained icy for the duration of Ambassador Perkins’s tour. He had made it clear that he intended to visit South African townships, attend church services and meet both white and Black people. Mr. Botha regarded this as interference.

“He stuck his finger in my face,” Dr. Perkins recalled of one meeting, which he said “was like putting his finger in Reagan’s face.” Mr. Botha “ranted on,” Dr. Perkins said, before storming out of the room. Despite Mr. Botha’s objections, the ambassador met with Black and white South Africans and even held integrated receptions.

He stayed in South Africa until 1989, by which time cracks were beginning to show in the country’s repressive regime. Nelson Mandela was released from prison the next year, and in 1994 he was elected the nation’s first Black president, bringing the curtain down on apartheid.

Edward Joseph Perkins Jr. was born on June 8, 1928, in Sterlington, La. His father was an evangelical minister who traveled from church to church to lead revivals. His mother, Tiny Estelle (Noble) Perkins, was a schoolteacher.

His parents divorced when he was a toddler, and he lived for a time with his maternal grandparents, who had been born into slavery and had not learned to read. In their town of Pleasant Grove, La., school ended for Black students in the sixth grade, so he moved with his mother and her new husband, who was also a minister, to Pine Bluff. They later moved to Portland, Ore., where he finished high school.

He decided to become a diplomat after attending lectures by former diplomats at a local international relations club. After high school, he was determined to see the world and joined the Army for three years. After returning to civilian life, he still longed to see the world and was eager to become more disciplined, so he joined the Marine Corps, serving for four years in Korea, Hawaii and Japan.

When he left the Marines, he took a civilian job with the Army and Air Forces Exchange Services in Taiwan, where he met Lucy Ching-mei Liu. They wanted to marry, but her parents objected to her marrying a man who was not Chinese. They eloped to Taiwan and married in 1962.

In addition to his daughter Katherine, Dr. Perkins is survived by another daughter, Sarah Perkins, and four grandchildren. His wife died in 2009.

While stationed in Taipei and Okinawa, Dr. Perkins enrolled in a program through the University of Maryland that allowed him to earn a bachelor’s degree in public administration and political science in 1967.

After a stint at the Agency for International Development, he passed the rigorous Foreign Service exam in 1971. While working in administrative jobs at the State Department, he studied at a satellite campus of the University of Southern California in Washington and earned his master’s degree in 1972 and his doctorate in 1978, both in public administration.

He always maintained that he was not bitter, despite facing hardships in the segregated South and racial obstacles along the way. In a 2007 interview with the University of Southern California, he recalled the words of his grandmother:

“You take what you’ve got and you keep on walking,” he said she had told him. “If you stop in the middle of the road, you won’t go anywhere.”





No.24 article:
They Beat Back the Virus (Again and Again and Again)

Hard-to-trace clusters, along with pandemic fatigue, have forced officials in Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan to keep recalibrating their responses.  

HONG KONG — First, it was travelers and university students bringing the coronavirus back to Hong Kong from Europe and the United States. Then, sea crews and bar patrons were the ones spreading infections. 

In the latest wave, a large cluster appears to have started in ballroom dancing halls that are popular with older women, then progressed to other dancing venues and banquet-style restaurants.

For much of the year, every time Hong Kong beat back a surge of coronavirus cases, new problems would pop up weeks later, in other places and among other populations.  

Similar patterns hold true in other parts of Asia that are still fighting day-by-day battles to keep their Covid-19 rates from spiraling out of control. And the latest waves of infection are proving harder to trace than earlier ones were — just as winter forces more people indoors and raises the risks of transmission.

Japan and South Korea are experiencing some of their highest single-day tallies since the pandemic began, driven largely by diffuse clusters in the Tokyo and Seoul metropolitan areas. Although still below its peak for the year, Hong Kong is facing a surge on par with its summer wave, driven in large part by what experts call untraceable “silent” transmissions. 

“We’re getting better at having a large testing capacity, and we have a lot of resources for contact tracing, but the cycle repeats,” said Kwok Kin-on, an epidemiologist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Compared with the United States and Europe, much of East Asia still has the virus relatively in check. Hong Kong, with a population of around 7.5 million, has had a total of 5,947 cases and 108 deaths, a low rate for any city. 

But the recent setbacks underscore the challenges that the world will continue to face until there is a widely available vaccine. As cases have soared back to alarming levels in recent weeks, South Korea, Japan and Hong Kong have had to quickly recalibrate their strategies.

Travel bubbles that were announced with great fanfare are now on hold. Weeks after reopening, schools have been shut again. Bars and restaurants are closing early or shifting to takeaway menus. 

“We need solidarity in this kind of situation, but as everyone knows, it’s not easy,” said Dr. Kim Woo-joo, an infectious disease specialist at Korea University in Seoul.

Complicating their efforts is the nature of the current outbreaks. Transmission is occurring not only in crowded venues like nightclubs, but also in settings like homes and workplaces where governments have fewer options to control people’s behavior. 

On Thursday, South Korea recorded more than 500 new cases for the first time in about eight months. Experts say there doesn’t seem to be a single major cluster, as there was when churches and antigovernment protests drove earlier outbreaks.

Pandemic fatigue hasn’t helped. Medical personnel are exhausted, young people are bored because they can’t travel, and business owners are frustrated because they have to scale back or close early.

Kim Ill-soon, who owns a tea shop in a residential neighborhood of Seoul, said that her business had dropped off after the government this week barred people from dwelling inside cafes. Takeout is still an option, but for many people, chatting over tea in person is part of the draw.

“I’ve been busy apologizing to my customers for the last two days,” she said. 

In Japan, the authorities have been reporting about 2,000 infections a day. Cases are spreading rapidly in Tokyo, which reported a record 570 infections on Friday, and around Osaka, Sapporo and other cities. Compared with summer waves, which mainly affected young people, the current one has hit many people in their 40s and older.

In a sign of the country’s alarm, Japan’s Imperial Household Agency said on Friday that it had decided to cancel Emperor Naruhito’s annual New Year event at the Imperial Palace in January — the first such cancellation since 1990, when the country was mourning the death of his grandfather.

“Please don’t underestimate coronavirus,” Dr. Toshio Nakagawa, president of the Japan Medical Association, told reporters on Wednesday in Tokyo. “We cannot let Japan become like the U.S. or Europe.”

The hope is that coronavirus vaccines will soon hand health officials around the globe a new weapon to beat the pandemic. But they won’t be widely available until the spring at the earliest. 

Until then, and as winter approaches and caseloads soar, medical officials across much of East Asia are pleading for vigilance — and rethinking their pandemic policies. 

In the spring and summer, the focus was mainly on fighting clusters at their source. Officials in Tokyo and Seoul, for example, responded to ones that had spread mainly from night clubs by temporarily closing down the venues. Hong Kong imposed restrictions on sea crews after a cluster was traced to cargo ships.

This time around, officials seem determined to take a more nuanced approach, apparently driven by concerns about the economic wreckage the pandemic has already caused. But doing so in face of such a pernicious pathogen can open up new challenges.

Hong Kong is rolling out a new contact-tracing app that would allow people to voluntarily scan QR codes on their smartphones when they visit a location, enabling officials to better tackle any clusters that emerge. But such apps have had limited success in South Korea, Britain and elsewhere. 

It may be difficult to persuade many people to download the app unless the government provides more details about how personal information will be analyzed. The issue of data privacy is particularly sensitive in Hong Kong because the Chinese government has been tightening its grip on the territory. 

“Hong Kongers are the most proactive in protecting themselves and their families, but they need to see proof of how the app would benefit them and ensure their privacy,” said Leung Chi-chiu, a respiratory specialist with the Hong Kong Medical Association. 

The latest waves of infection have also forced governments to slow down their tentative efforts to open up. 

Hong Kongers rushed to buy airline tickets to take advantage of a planned travel bubble with Singapore, even before the details were fully known. The special flights would have allowed residents in both places to avoid 14-day quarantines upon arrival. 

The travel bubble was supposed to start this week. Then Hong Kong’s cases spiked, and officials postponed the start to Dec. 6. 

In Japan, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has scaled back a roughly $16 billion campaign designed to encourage domestic tourism during the pandemic. But he has not scrapped it entirely, saying it helps to support local economies.

For people like Noriko Hashida, who sells cosmetics in Osaka, taking a vacation last week with eight of her work colleagues was worth the risk of infection.

Ms. Hashida said that a tourism subsidy from the government allowed them to spring for a luxury hotel that would have ordinarily been out of their price range. “We enjoyed it so much,” she said.

Still, they decided to cancel a sightseeing tour of the island because the optics were a little awkward.

“We thought that the local residents wouldn’t feel comfortable seeing visitors from Osaka, where infections are spreading rapidly,” she said.

Advertisement





No.25 article:
In a Holiday Lesbian Rom-Com, Kristen Stewart Saw Herself

The actress stars opposite Mackenzie Davis for a bit of Christmas comfort, with a queer twist, from director Clea DuVall and her “Veep” pal Mary Holland.

No one imagines that a Christmas rom-com can be renegade. And yet “Happiest Season,” about a couple played by Kristen Stewart and Mackenzie Davis, manages to be at once deeply, warmingly conventional and surprisingly radical, simply by focusing on a pair of women.

“I just wanted it to feel very, very relatable — but then also completely new,” said Clea DuVall, the director and co-writer with Mary Holland, who also stars as a loopy sister.

DuVall, who is an actress too (“Veep”), has said her own role in the seminal 2000 comedy “But I’m a Cheerleader,” in which she played a gay teenager sent to conversion camp, helped her out of the closet. She came out to her own mother on Christmas Day and modeled Stewart’s character, Abby, after herself. The production included other L.G.B.T.Q. stars, with Daniel Levy as Abby’s scene-stealing bestie and a soundtrack, courtesy of the producer Justin Tranter, performed by queer artists.

They shot in the cold in Pittsburgh — DuVall adamantly wanted that winter light — wrapping just two weeks before Covid-19 upended life.

In a recent video interview, DuVall, Stewart, Davis and Holland — beaming in from different locations, with Stewart’s dogs occasionally barking in the background — spoke about missing each other and somehow not yet getting the hang of Zoom interviews. (“Yesterday I had it on Gallery View, but then I just was looking at my own face the whole time,” Davis admitted.) 

“Happiest Season,” which premieres on Hulu on Thanksgiving, was the last big project for all of them — a time capsule and a holiday rolled into one. “Christmas movies are so specific and they become a part of our lives in a way that other movies don’t,” DuVall said. “None of us had any idea just how much we would all need that comfort when the movie came out.”

These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Kristen and Mackenzie, your characters at the beginning have such a sweet relationship and real chemistry. Did you build their back story to create that intimacy?

STEWART Right before we started shooting, you and I maybe had a couple of conversations. Do we meet in college? Are you older?

DAVIS We talked so much about our own current or past relationship experiences, what we like, things that felt really specific to our own lives. That’s for me more relevant than the checklist of, OK, we met then, what were our friend groups like when they merged? That stuff is important to a degree but it doesn’t show up in the same way as, like —

STEWART How do you catch a person’s eye.

DAVIS Exactly.

STEWART I always felt as long as we felt solid going in, we could be like an aspirational, really self-assured couple in a way that strips any kind of discomfort or internalized homophobia that is undeniably applied to same-sex couples in commercial projects. Like, did we seem like lesbians? Or were we just two women in love, and then we do a Christmas movie?

Tell me more about characterizing queer characters onscreen vs. what has historically been represented.

STEWART I’ve had a lot of experience with confusing people and having it be misconstrued as my confusion. It’s like, I’m sorry, you need to catch up. Sometimes I didn’t wear heels when I was younger [and that was commented on]. Wardrobe choices — it became more and more evident that optics really matter, because they’ve been violently used against me.

You know, the word “lesbian” has a negative connotation to me that I have now tried to strip because I grew up being like oh, I’m not a lesbian. Because I hadn’t dated girls yet. But, like, that was violent. In retrospect — just because I have so much of pretty much every other type of privilege — that doesn’t mean that I have to not acknowledge that sucked and felt physical.

So it was important for me in this movie to acknowledge it and be like hey, I’m going to nicely invite you towards me, rather than feel like I’m feeding into an alienation that I have been sucked into my whole life.

DuVALL I think people don’t even realize how rampant homophobia is and how casual it is. And that it does really have a lasting impact.

I so appreciated making this movie with Kristen, because I felt she could understand it in a way that not a lot of people can. I was very lucky early in my career to be in “But I’m a Cheerleader” and play a character that felt like me for the first time, and also seeing that for the first time [onscreen] — it was so major. Creating Abby was really wanting to bring that kind of specificity back into movies.

Mary, you and Clea were co-stars on “Veep.” How did you go from that to writing a Christmas rom-com together?

HOLLAND Our characters on “Veep” never had scenes together, so we never got to be together on set. But I would go to the cast table reads and right away, we sort of locked in with each other and had this chemistry. She told me about this idea, and I was a thousand percent on board. Clea really took a shot in the dark with me. We were pretty much strangers when she asked me to write with her.

Did you have a list of Christmas movie must-haves, like that image of a door with a giant wreath on it opening, which seems like a staple of all holiday movies?

STEWART I’ve seen the movie like three times now — [jokingly] because I’m obsessed with myself. But when the door opens, I feel like the movie gets up and starts to run. And you’re like oh, my God, wait, I’m supposed to run with you? I love it.

DuVALL In the writing we didn’t really watch stuff — we built the world on our own. But once I got into working with our production designer, Theresa Guleserian, and our [director of photography], John Guleserian, that’s when we started creating those iconic images and [making] them feel like Christmas without just putting up a bunch of tinsel and lights.

The soundtrack is also totally Christmas-y. But why no Mariah?

DuVALL Because Mariah’s Christmas song is very expensive.

Kristen and Mackenzie, how do you balance being funny with the movie’s big emotional arcs?

DAVIS Clea would tell us this all the time — don’t try and make it something that it’s not. Don’t shy away from the big romance and don’t shy away from the slapstick and the big emotional moments, because all those things together are part of this genre. So even though your instinct as an actor might be to make it a little quieter, all of those things actually thrive if you invest the most into each of those elements.

STEWART Going back and forth from the comedy to being emotional or hurt was, like, traumatic for me. I would be mad at Mackenzie in the morning.

Dan Levy has a memorable scene talking about the coming out process. How did that develop?

DuVALL His speech was actually almost an afterthought. I was needing to create sides for auditions to see if this actor can do drama.

And then when I got into it I was like oh, this is maybe the most important part of the movie. And it was something that I hadn’t ever really articulated for myself. Because I came out and I think I just brushed it off. Then when I thought about it and that came out — he delivered that so beautifully, I would watch it in the tent and just cry.

STEWART Also Dan, I was so nervous. He’s so funny. I didn’t know him before. I was like, dude, is he going to think I’m like a dumb loser? Are we going to like each other? Because I’ve had experiences with comedians that at first you go, oh, this is going to be really fun, and then you’re like actually, I kind of just feel dumber around this person. And also there is a sort of one-uppy thing some really funny people have.

Dan is the most warm and welcoming and truly observational and neurotic funny person, without ever taking anyone down or being weird and negative. I was like oh, man, it’s going to be so easy to love this guy.

This movie made me realize that there’s a certain amount of tension and release that can be good, but really you do your best work when you’re supported and feel seen. Rather than fighting to feel that — which I have also loved doing, but I’m growing out of. I don’t have the energy for it.

Also, it feels so good to watch a movie where the jokes are so familiar to me and my friends, with relationships between two girls. It feels amazing to take the piss out of stuff that hurts, because that means you can release it.





No.26 article:
Did John McCracken Make That Monolith in Utah?

It is a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, buried in the desert: His dealer says yes. His son says maybe. His artist buddies, like Ed Ruscha, say, no way the sculptor created this tall, silvery object.  

At first it sounded like a plot twist from a science-fiction novel by Philip K. Dick. A tall, silvery slice of metal, about 10 feet high with an aura of strangeness about it, is spotted in the red-rock canyons of the Utah desert. State employees who found it while surveying the land for bighorn sheep say they have no idea who drove the slab of metal into the rock floor. And in the days since, the riddle of what it is and how it got there has proved irresistible.

Some cheekily wondered if it was planted there by aliens. Others thought it might be a tribute to the monolith in “2001: A Space Odyssey.” But the most tantalizing speculation was that it might be the work of John McCracken, a Minimalist sculptor with an affinity for science fiction who died in 2011.

The David Zwirner gallery, which has exhibited the artist’s work since 1997 and represents his estate, has asserted that the mystery monolith is a bona fide McCracken.

Just one problem: If that indeed is the case, McCracken pulled it off without ever mentioning a word to his dealer or his friends. Now most everyone in the art world is divided over whether the story is plausible or a larksome prank.

The artist’s son, Patrick McCracken, remains completely puzzled by the monolith. But when he heard the news, he thought back to an evening in May 2002, when his father was living in Medanales, N.M., in a small adobe house overlooking a mesa. “We were standing outside looking at the stars and he said something to the effect of that he would like to leave his artwork in remote places to be discovered later,” he recalled in a phone interview.

Did he think his father was joking?

“No, I thought it was something that he would do,” he said. “He was inspired by the idea of alien visitors leaving objects that resembled his work, or that his work resembled. This discovery of a monolith piece — that’s very much in line with his artistic vision.”

A photographer who lives in San Francisco, the younger McCracken added: “He wasn’t your average sort of dad. He believed in advance alien races that were able to visit earth. To his mind, these aliens had been visiting Earth for a very long time and they were not malevolent. They wanted to help humanity to get past this time of our evolution where all we do is fight each other.”

McCracken, who was born in Berkeley, Calif., the son of a rancher, was a memorable character, a tall, rangy man with weathered features and eyes that appeared to have stared too long at the sun. His interests were decidedly galactic. An avid reader of science fiction, he believed in time travel and extraterrestrial life. He was a friend of the actor Leonard Nimoy, the pointy-eared hero of “Star Trek” and a collector of McCracken’s work.

McCracken, who died of a brain tumor at age 76, is known best for his glossy, resin-covered “planks,” geometric sculptures that imbue the products of the humble lumberyard with the hard surface sheen of California car culture.

His otherworldly passions are hardly a guarantee of the authorship of the sculpture, and it is possible the piece was created by a non-sculptor. You can narrow the pool of candidates to, at the very least, the millions of viewers enamored of “2001: A Space Odyssey,” Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 classic. The film, of course, features its own heroic monolith, a gleaming black structure that spawns evolutionary leaps. When apes encounter it and see their first straight lines and right angles, they begin using tools and undergo a transformation into intelligent beings.

Ed Ruscha, who is known for his text-inscribed paintings and is probably the dean of the California art scene, befriended McCracken during the years when he was living in Los Angeles. “I don’t think that’s a John McCracken,” he said of the sculpture. “It’s unlike him to be a trickster of someone. A monolith in the desert? It’s so universal that it could be anybody. It’s very sci-fi to come across something like that. I like the idea of someone’s having fun.”

The artist James Hayward, a close friend of McCracken and former assistant of his, agrees. “It’s a giant hoax, as far as I am concerned,” Mr. Hayward said. “The object in the photos I have seen is crudely made. I looked at the corners as much as I could; they are made by a machine called a brake, which bends metal. When you bend metal with a machine, the corners are not sharp and crisp. They’re rounded.”

Compared to a classical Minimalist like Donald Judd, McCracken was an anomaly, in part because he resisted machines and industrial fabrication. He preferred to make his sculptures by hand, in a spirit of patient, painstaking craftsmanship. Truth be told, the piece in Utah differs from the planks he pioneered in 1966 and continued to think about until the end of his life.

They consist of rectangular boards of plywood covered in Fiberglas, painted a single color and leaned against a wall, as if a workman had rested them while assembling, say, a platform bed. Done in a range of strong, saturated colors, including bubble-gum pink, sunflower yellow and piano-key black, they lend color an independent material life. But the high polish of their surfaces makes them so reflective they appear to dissolve in front of your eyes into something that feels less like sculptural mass than pure Platonic metaphor.

McCracken liked to say that the planks inhabited a zone between painting and sculpture. With one end resting on the floor and the other touching the wall, a plank connects the earth beneath our feet with the higher realm of the wall, the surface on which painting, and thus illusion, first began.

But there was more to his career than the planks. The monolith in Utah, a standing non-wood column, is consistent with McCracken’s lesser-known sculptures in stainless steel, for which he relied on various fabricators, including Arnold AG. “We introduced him to this incredible company that works with Jeff Koons,” Mr. Zwirner said of the German fabricator.

Mr. Zwirner, by his own admission, was late in discovering McCracken’s work. In 1992, he was visiting the artist Mike Kelley at his home in Los Angeles, when he noticed a pink-hued plinth in the living room. The dealer asked who the artist was. “Mike said, ‘You must be the world’s biggest goofball. You don’t know John McCracken? He is one of the greatest artists alive.’ So I got a real dressing-down for not knowing John McCracken.”

In coming months, Mr. Zwirner sought out the sculptor’s work and telephoned him to ask if he belonged to a gallery in New York. McCracken hesitated before replying: “Gee, David, I don’t know.”

In fact, McCracken had been represented by the prestigious Sonnabend Gallery since 1970, but apparently was feeling disconsolate over the state of his career. Although he had earned his first fame in the now-historic 1966 survey at the Jewish Museum, “Primary Structures,” that helped launch the Minimalist movement, his initial momentum had evaporated. He signed on to Zwirner, where he had his first show in 1997 and has continued to hold his own as a respected if idiosyncratic Minimalist. His tenth show at the gallery will open next March, and Mr. Zwirner has decided to devote it to the “plank” sculptures which, he says, have never been shown by themselves before.

In a Zoom call on Wednesday with Mr. Zwirner and Hanna Schouwink, a partner at the gallery who worked closely with McCracken over the years, it was clear the disagreement over the authorship of the Utah monolith extends even to the gallery staff. While Ms. Schouwink remains unconvinced (“I really don’t know anymore,” she said with a sigh), Mr. Zwirner said confidently, “Of course the piece is by McCracken! He’s come back to help us with the transition,” referring to events in Washington.

(A few days earlier, a gallery spokesperson was quoted in the press saying that the sculpture was not a McCracken but probably a touching homage to him done in his style and created by an unknown acolyte.)

Some online sleuths, using Google Earth to determine when the sculpture materialized in the desert, are still asserting that it was placed there around 2016, well after McCracken’s death.

How do you prove that a chunk of metal in the desert is in fact the work of McCracken? In matters of art authentication, gut aesthetic opinions and the power of “the eye” are considered relevant — never mind that no one besides Utah public-safety agents has seen the monolith in person. A more relevant and reliable form of authentication must await the gathering of information about the sculpture’s installation. It would be useful to learn who, exactly, transported this metal object to Utah, drilled through red rock to plant it in the ground, and perhaps laid a cement foundation beneath it. If you happen to be the person who did that, well, speak up, please!

Mr. Zwirner, by his own admission, has no idea who installed the sculpture and seems unfazed by the question. And perhaps it is not surprising that now, toward the close of this plague year, when so many people have been besieged by varying degrees of isolation and illness and the numbness bred by television news, it is soothing indeed to contemplate a beautiful apparition rising out of desert rock, a moving affirmation of the triumph of the imagination over workaday reality.

But beware. As Spock himself famously admonished, “Insufficient facts always invite danger.&quot;





No.27 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.28 article:
Jailed, Exiled and Silenced: Smothering East Africa’s Political Opposition

In several countries, entrenched leaders are taking advantage of coronavirus restrictions and a world distracted by the pandemic to clamp down hard on prominent political opponents.

NAIROBI, Kenya — Since the presidential campaign kicked off in Uganda in early November, the most prominent opposition candidate, Bobi Wine, has been tear-gassed, arrested and beaten by the police, held in solitary confinement, and charged in court for holding campaign events in violation of coronavirus restrictions.

“I know they want me dead as soon as yesterday,” Mr. Wine, a musician-turned-lawmaker whose real name is Robert Ssentamu Kyagulanyi, said in a telephone interview. “We are campaigning every day as if it’s the last.”

Mr. Wine is one of several high-profile opposition leaders in East Africa who have recently been jailed, exiled or silenced as they challenge entrenched leaders and political parties. Heads of state have used the coronavirus as a pretext to strengthen their grip on power and have introduced laws to smother dissent, analysts say.

There has been less international attention and outcry than usual, with many countries that traditionally serve as watchdogs preoccupied with the pandemic and domestic concerns. While some have issued statements of concern, they have not threatened sanctions over the violence, or offered to mediate, as they might once have.

And the United States, under the isolationist leadership of President Trump, has been far less engaged in defending human rights globally. The country has also lost credibility to intervene internationally as the world saw American police forces caught on video violating human rights at home.

The repercussions have been felt in elections in several East African nations.

In Uganda, which votes in January, Mr. Wine has faced intense intimidation in his bid to unseat President Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled the country with an iron grip since 1986.

In Tanzania, Tundu Lissu, a lawyer and former lawmaker, received death threats as he campaigned for president, and was hounded out of the country after an October election that some international observers said was undermined by fraud.

And in Ethiopia, the media mogul and opposition figure Jawar Mohammed has been lingering in prison for almost five months on charges of terrorism.

“Opposition movements are facing some of the most dire challenges to their existence since this era of democratization first took hold in the region in the early 1990s,” said Zachariah Mampilly, co-author of the book “Africa Uprising: Popular Protest and Political Change,” and a professor of international affairs at the City University of New York.

As opposition leaders face off with powerful establishments, these “regimes are revealing the violent sides that have always undergirded their power,” Mr. Mampilly said.

The challenge has been acute in Uganda in recent weeks, where Mr. Wine’s arrest on Nov. 19 sparked violent protests that led to the death of at least 45 people and the arrest of almost 600 others, according to the police.

The authorities have accused Mr. Wine of holding political gatherings that flout coronavirus guidelines, which stipulate that campaign rallies be limited to 200 people. But security forces, he said, have not clamped down on rallies supporting Mr. Museveni and the ruling National Resistance Movement, despite drawing campaign crowds exceeding the 200-person limit.

“There’s an absolute double-standard in operating procedures when it comes to enforcing the rules,” Mr. Wine said. “It’s like the coronavirus is only affecting the opposition.”

Although Uganda’s electoral commission has encouraged candidates to campaign on radio and television instead of holding rallies, Mr. Wine said the authorities have raided studios to stop his appearances or ordered hosts to cancel them.

A Ugandan police spokesman did not immediately respond to questions about the treatment of Mr. Wine.

Mr. Wine, 38, said he is riding on the frustrations of the country’s young, who make up a significant majority of the nation’s 45 million people. Mr. Museveni, 76, was initially credited for bringing stability to his nation, but has been accused of brooking no criticism, overseeing widespread online surveillance and censorship, and introducing punitive anti-gay laws. In order to run for an unprecedented sixth term, he approved a law that ended presidential age limits.

As he has campaigned countrywide, Mr. Museveni has accused the opposition of working with outsiders and “homosexuals” to destabilize the country. At a recent rally, he struck an ominous note, saying, “They will discover what they are looking for.”

In Tanzania, observers said the elections on Oct. 28 were marred with violence, the arrest of opposition leaders and widespread allegations of fraud and irregularities. In the hours after President John Magufuli won a second term, the main opposition contender, Mr. Lissu, said he started receiving death threats. Mr. Lissu had already survived one assassination attempt in 2017, went into exile and returned this year to run for president.

Hassan Abbas, a spokesman for the Tanzanian government, denied the allegations of threats.

After the election, Mr. Lissu went into hiding but was soon arrested outside the German embassy in the port city of Dar es Salaam, where he had sought protection. He said the police questioned him about trying to “overthrow the government.” After German diplomats got involved, Mr. Lissu was released and decided to immediately leave the country.

“It’s sad the way things have turned out,” Mr. Lissu said in a phone interview from Tienen, Belgium, where he is now living.

Mr. Lissu, 52, said that “it was going to be a mountain climb” to unseat the government of Mr. Magufuli, which has curbed political and civil liberties and placed restrictions on media and human rights organizations. Mr. Magufuli has declared the country coronavirus-free, but has not released any data since April about the pandemic. 

In Ethiopia, Mr. Jawar, the most formidable political challenger to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, was arrested in July and later charged with terrorism, after being linked to a wave of unrest that followed the killing of the popular singer Hachalu Hundessa in June.

Mr. Jawar, 34, hails from the same Oromo ethnic group as Mr. Abiy and helped propel him to power in 2018. Mr. Jawar runs the Oromia Media Network and has a large following on social media. But the two have since clashed over their vision for Ethiopia’s future.

The country has now plunged into crisis since Mr. Abiy, who won the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize, started a military operation to subdue the northernmost Tigray region in early November. The sweeping assault has pushed more than 40,000 people to flee the Tigray region into Sudan, drawing concerns from the United Nations as well as regional and global leaders.

Ken O. Opalo, an assistant professor at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, said that even with Mr. Jawar and many other government critics in prison, it will be hard to silence opposition movements in Ethiopia or “go back to the old closed” system of rule, given how much the country has opened up in the past few years.

Two other countries in the region — Burundi and Djibouti — also persecute the political opposition. In Burundi, officials from rival parties were targeted ahead of May elections. Under the new president, Évariste Ndayishimiye, who replaced the longtime ruler Pierre Nkurunziza, there has been an increase in opposition detentions and disappearances, said Thierry Uwamahoro, a Burundian democracy activist who is now based overseas.

In Djibouti, where Ismail Omar Guelleh has been president since 1999, the authorities have stamped out public protests and arrested journalists and opposition members. As the country prepares for presidential elections in April, opponents of Mr. Guelleh doubt they can mount a successful challenge.

“When it comes to politics, Djibouti is a black hole,” Daher Ahmed Farah, the head of the opposition Movement for Democratic Renewal and Development party, said in a phone interview from exile in Belgium.

The struggles in all these countries attest to the yearning among many in East Africa for genuine political transformation, said Mr. Mampilly of the City University of New York.

“As with all such periods of transformation, there will be continued setbacks, and hopefully, progress as well,” he said.





No.29 article:
Families Have Been Torn Apart by Politics. What Happens to Them Now?

Unlike 2016, when conflicts emerged over political choices, this time many are centered on the legitimacy of the result itself.

Tho Nguyen’s parents, who immigrated from Vietnam, were always Republican. They are Catholic and oppose abortion. Four years ago they voted for Donald Trump.

But nothing prepared Ms. Nguyen, 25, a medical student in Kansas, for how much politics would divide her family over the next four years, as her parents became increasingly passionate about the president.

In recent weeks, as the election drew nearer, Ms. Nguyen said she has had screaming fights with her parents — very unusual for her family. Her mother threatened to stop cooking if she and her sisters voted for Mr. Biden. She had to look up the word ‘brainwashed’ in Vietnamese. But when she used it to describe her parents, her father said it applied to her.

She said her parents did not believe Mr. Biden could have won, and it was hard to convince them otherwise, because that is not what they were hearing from Vietnamese sources on Facebook.

“In my dad’s mind, more than half of the votes for Biden were illegal,” said Ms. Nguyen, who lives with her parents and was spending Thanksgiving with them. “It’s just wild.”

The shock of Donald J. Trump’s election in 2016, just before the holiday season, tested many American families who had to confront — or avoid altogether — political disagreements over Thanksgiving dinners. Many Democrats said they were angry at family members who voted for him. Republicans rejected the notion that their votes were referendums on whether they were good people.

But four years later, for some families, those differences have mutated into something deeper — a divide over basic facts and visions for America’s future. That rift feels even harder to mend after the 2020 election, as Mr. Trump stoked conspiracy theories questioning the legitimacy of Mr. Biden’s win.

In interviews during and after the election, Americans talked about the differences that had emerged in their families over politics and how they had changed over the past four years. Some had learned to live with them, and were trying hard to focus on the things they had in common. Others had not spoken since 2016.

Many were in a stressful, messy place in between — trying to manage with loved ones who saw the world differently than they did. Several asked that their last names not be published because they did not want to lose the diminished relationships they still had. In most cases relatives with whom there was conflict — and who may have offered different accounts of the disagreements — were not contacted.

Unlike 2016, when conflicts emerged over political choices, this time they centered on the result itself, even though officials have not seen any evidence of fraud. Polls since the election have found that large majorities of those who voted for Trump do not believe the election was fair. Large shares also say mail-in ballots were manipulated in favor of Joe Biden. But the situation is fluid, and interviews with voters showed substantial variation among Republicans, many of whom have their own stories of family loss.

“I believe it was all on the up and up,” said William Hill, a lawyer in the Midwest, of the election. Mr. Hill voted for Mr. Trump, but said he believed that Mr. Biden “is not a bad guy. He’s not going to do something that’s going to harm the country. He’s just not.”

But the election result has not mended the rupture in his family. He said his sister, who lives in Seattle, blew up at him after he voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and they haven’t spoken since. He said he has sent her and her wife a Christmas gift every year — a box of nuts from a local gourmet shop — but he has never heard back. The most recent news of her, he said, was a post on Facebook after the election agreeing with someone who said, “Why would we want to unify with those people?”

“It hurts,” said Mr. Hill, who is 50. He said his sister and her wife “are good people,” and it still baffles him that political differences could cost a relationship. “My daughter sees things completely differently than I do politically, but she still gives me a hug every night.”

The political divisions within families, while widespread, are far from universal. Dr. Joshua Coleman, a psychologist who specializes in estrangement, said that while he now has such cases in his practice, they are still a small share of the business, and, so far, mostly consist of millennials or other younger Americans pulling back from or cutting off their more conservative baby boomer parents.

That was the case in the Ackley family.

Danielle Ackley of North Carolina and her mother have always been different politically. But they agreed to disagree, even after Mr. Trump’s 2016 win, which Ms. Ackley said brought her son to tears.

But during a visit last month, they got into a terrible argument over politics. Ms. Ackley, 37, said she got angry when she heard her mother criticize Mr. Biden’s character. Then it escalated. It ended with her telling her mother to leave.

“This is not even a political divide, it’s a reality divide,” said Ms. Ackley, who added that she felt even more distant after seeing her mother comment approvingly on a Facebook post questioning mail-in ballots.

For Debbie Ackley, who is 59, the experience was painful and a shock. She said she remembers staring down at her phone, trying not to cry. She left the next morning, hours earlier than she had planned, and was so upset on the drive that she worried she might crash.

She said she loved her daughter, and though she did not understand her anger, she knew it came from a good place.

“Danielle has got the biggest heart,” she said. “She’s very sensitive and very loving. She takes things to heart.”

She said she was frustrated by what she saw as a growing intolerance in the country.

“It’s scary that there’s very little tolerance and respect for other people’s views and opinions — that’s what makes me sad,” she said.

As for the election, she said she has no doubt that there was fraud in the mail-in ballots, but whether it was enough to change the outcome, “I really don’t know.”

In the most extreme cases, what began as a manageable political disagreement in 2016 morphed into something much darker, as people watched family members who voted for Mr. Trump become absorbed by conspiracy theories that the president himself was spreading.

Christine, a real estate agent in Massachusetts, remembers her mother’s excitement at Mr. Trump’s win in 2016. They were on a family vacation, and no one else was happy about it, but the difference didn’t seem to matter very much.

But over the past year, she said she has seen her mother, a 75-year-old waitress, change from an enthusiastic gardener and antiques shopper to someone so obsessed with the QAnon conspiracy theory that she said she could no longer get through to her. Her mother was spending her free time staring at her iPad, and this spring, bought a necklace with a Q on it.

“I feel like I’ve been in mourning for someone who is still alive, and that’s a bizarre thing,” said Christine, 34, who shares a last name with her mother and asked that it not be used in order to protect their privacy. “The person she used to be is not here anymore. I miss her so much.”

She said this was the first Thanksgiving of her life that she would not be spending with her mother, who had been one of her closest confidants and lives 10 miles away.

For many, the key to preventing estrangement is not talking about politics in the first place. That is how Michelle, a health care worker in Arizona, has tried to manage the situation in her family. She said her sister voted for Mr. Trump, but they agreed long ago never to discuss it, and are best friends who talk every day.

“We’re both like, nope, we’re not going to do it,” she said. “I value her as my sister, we are really close.”

But she cried as she described having to block her father, a retired manager for a manufacturing firm, from her email this fall, because of what she said was a constant stream of conspiracy-laden messages that he would not stop sending even after she had asked. She asked that her last name not be used because she feared further damage to her relationship with him.

“I’m just sad,” she said, crying softly. “Just because, you know, he’s my dad, and he’s always helped me if I’ve ever needed it. He’s always been there for me.”

Still, she planned to see him on Thanksgiving, outside and masked.

A number of older voters said they grew up around family and friends who didn’t always agree with them politically, but those distinctions mattered less to a person’s identity then. They didn’t pick fights over them, because politics was not who you were.

“I really just don’t see alienating my family over this,” said Joe Wallace, 75, a retired pipe fitter in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania who voted for Joe Biden. He said that he was baffled by his sisters’ strong support for Mr. Trump, but that he never talked about it with them. “It’s not worth it.”

Will relationships heal now that Mr. Trump is no longer president? Nearly everyone interviewed for this article who had experienced a falling out said they did not think so — at least not immediately. Estelle Moore, a retired flight attendant in East Stroudsburg, Pa., said it was as if we had seen things in each other that we weren’t supposed to. But now that we had, we could not un-see them.

“It’s like frying chicken,” said Ms. Moore, 64, sitting in a lawn chair outside her small brick house. “Once you put it into that hot grease, it becomes something different.”

The Ackleys aren’t giving up. A week after the election, Danielle Ackley sent her mother a message. She had spent days composing it, sitting on her lunch break at the plant nursery where she works. Her mother wrote back that they had many things to talk about. Politics did not have to one of them.

Debbie Ackley said it reminded her of the time she took her young son to the circus and encountered her daughter, then a high schooler, protesting the treatment of the elephants.

“That’s my daughter,” she said. “I’m so proud of her. I’m so proud of the person she has become.”





No.30 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.31 article:
Britain Set to Leap Ahead in Approving Vaccines

Regulators may approve the troubled AstraZeneca vaccine and the American-made Pfizer shot weeks before the U.S. does so.

LONDON — Britain asked its drug regulator on Friday to consider AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine for emergency approval, forging ahead in the face of considerable uncertainty about the vaccine’s effectiveness as the government tries to corral a pandemic that has killed more than 66,000 people in the country.

The request was one of a series of steps that Britain has taken to put itself near the front of the pack of countries hurrying to assess coronavirus vaccine candidates. The country’s drug regulator said on Monday that it intended to decide on an emergency approval for a vaccine made by the American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and a German company, BioNTech, “in the shortest time possible.” That would potentially put it ahead of American regulators, who plan to make a ruling no sooner than Dec. 10.

In a letter last week, British health officials told hospital executives to be “ready to start vaccinating from the beginning of December.&quot; Hospital executives have already started holding vaccine information sessions with staff members and asking for data to help reassure them that the Pfizer vaccine — the apparent front-runner for approval — is safe.

And Cambridge University Hospitals told staff members that it would begin vaccinating them “from next week using the Pfizer vaccine,” according to an internal email, outlining a plan for booking appointments.

Holding the keys to Britain’s vaccination timeline is its regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, which has long played a leading role in evaluating drugs for the European Union and is now staking out a more independent role as Britain splits from the bloc.

“They’re pretty fast at the best of times, quite honestly,” Dr. Penny Ward, a visiting professor in pharmaceutical medicine at King’s College London, said of the agency. “And in this situation they’ve really been gearing up to do this as rapidly as possible.”

Still, the job of evaluating AstraZeneca’s vaccine for emergency use will place the agency in the middle of a thicket of difficult questions.

The vaccine was developed by the University of Oxford, making it Britain’s leading homegrown vaccine and the government’s foremost symbol of its scientific prowess during a pandemic that has laid bare many of the country’s weaknesses. (The prime minister’s office went so far as to explore printing the Union Jack flag on vaccine injection kits, HuffPost U.K. reported on Friday.)

After AstraZeneca announced this week that the vaccine appeared to be up to 90 percent effective, Prime Minister Boris Johnson celebrated the results.

But since then, AstraZeneca has acknowledged a key dosing error. The study participants in whom the vaccine was 90 percent effective had mistakenly been given a half dose of the vaccine, followed a month later by a full dose. Among those who received two full doses, the effectiveness dropped to 62 percent.

And the people who received the smaller dosing regimen were 55 years old or younger, making it difficult to know if the more promising results would hold among older people, who are especially vulnerable to Covid-19.

That has eroded the confidence of some scientists and created uncertainty about whether additional testing would bear out the apparently spectacular results. The company itself was unable to explain why the two dosing regimens performed so differently — a question that some scientists said needed answering before wide distribution of the vaccine.

“I can understand why they’ve taken it forward; it still works,” Stuart Neil, a professor of virology at King’s College London, said of the British regulators. “But we’ve still got no idea whether it works well enough.”

In the United States, which has ordered at least 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine, the regulatory process is at a standstill. The company said it would seek guidance from the Food and Drug Administration on whether it should formally submit its findings to apply for emergency authorization.

But Britain, which has ordered 100 million doses of the vaccine, is speeding down the regulatory path much more quickly.

That reflects its drug regulators’ close observation of AstraZeneca’s trials in Britain. After Oxford scientists discovered the dosing error months ago, Britain’s medicines agency gave them the green light to continue, the university has said.

American and British regulators also conduct their vaccine reviews differently, Dr. Ward said. American regulators ask vaccine makers for raw data, which the F.D.A. reanalyzes to validate company results. Regulators in Britain and elsewhere in Europe rely more heavily on the companies’ own reports, Dr. Ward said, though they reserve the right to verify their accuracy.

With hundreds of people still dying from the coronavirus each day in Britain and the country’s hospitals under enormous stress, Dr. Ward said that any vaccine at AstraZeneca’s level of effectiveness deserved strong consideration. It is inexpensive — only a few dollars per dose — and easy to mass-produce. Unlike vaccines made by Pfizer and another American company, Moderna, AstraZeneca’s can be stored for months in normal refrigerators.

And in using a viral vector to provoke an immune response to the coronavirus, the AstraZeneca vaccine relies on a technique with a longer track record than Pfizer’s and Moderna’s, both of which use a technology relying on sending genetic instructions through a molecule known as “messenger RNA.”

“A vaccine doesn’t need very, very, very high effectiveness in order to be useful in reducing the burden of disease, particularly more severe disease, and in relieving pressure on a backed-up health system,” Dr. Ward said, noting that seasonal flu vaccines are useful even though they vary widely in their effectiveness.

Now that Britain has decided to leave the European Union, the bloc’s regulatory agency no longer relies on Britain to take the lead in assessing new medicines and vaccines, as it did for many years. But analysts said that Britain’s drug regulator remained a bellwether, making its rulings influential in Europe and elsewhere.

For Britain, the decisions are crucial in part because the government has hedged its bets by pre-ordering a total of 355 million doses of seven different vaccine candidates, among the most ambitious hauls in the world.

“It’s like having an array of weapons in your armory,” said Gino Martini, the chief scientist at the Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

It remains unclear when British regulators will decide on either Pfizer or AstraZeneca’s vaccine. (With Moderna’s vaccine unlikely to be available in Britain until at least the spring, the government has not formally requested an emergency assessment.) The agency said on Friday that it would “rigorously assess the latest data” and that “the safety of the public will always come first.”

And temporary approval of any vaccines in Britain will not limit their availability in the United States or other wealthy countries that have also ordered many millions of doses.

But scientists have stressed that it is essential for the public’s faith in coronavirus vaccines that British regulators thoroughly vet questions about all of the candidates, and especially AstraZeneca’s, before giving temporary approval.

“I’m sure they’re feeling the pressure like everybody else that if there’s a chance of this making a difference, then they need to make a decision as soon as they can,” Professor Neil said. “But the trouble is it’s getting snarled up in a lot of financial competition and chest-beating about who’s got the best vaccine. And the error in dosing raises awkward questions that need to be fully investigated.”





No.32 article:
As Winter Arrives, Heaters Become a Survival Tool for Businesses

The must-have accessory for many businesses this winter is basic, but lately it has been hard to find: the humble space heater.

As coronavirus cases surge, and as people shun or are even barred from gathering in indoor spaces, restaurants, hotels and office buildings are installing outdoor heaters on sidewalks and terraces in a bid to retain customers and tenants.

The effort can seem like an existential quest. A rise in demand has left some products back-ordered for months, possibly jeopardizing the prospect of some businesses getting through the pandemic intact.

“Surviving this pandemic has become like jungle warfare,” said Mark Barak, the chief executive of La Pecora Bianca, a restaurant that has decked out the outside areas of its three New York locations with about 70 heaters.

“I joke with my staff that I have become an outdoor-dining general contractor. That’s how I now spend so much of my time,” Mr. Barak said.

Distributors say they are having trouble keeping up with demand.

Gas-Fired Products, a North Carolina manufacturer of heating equipment, is selling three times as many heaters as it did in 2019, said Paul Horne, the vice president of the company. Its products include $1,200 versions with enclosed flames that promise to stay lit in 40-mile-per-hour winds.

“Any opportunity that people can find to go to a restaurant or hang out with friends outside, they’re going to take advantage,” Mr. Horne said.

The profile of customers is changing, vendors say. Heaters once mostly ended up on backyard patios, but they are quickly becoming fixtures of commercial buildings.

Just a year ago, businesses made up 10 percent of the clients of Radtec, a Texas-based distributor. Today, that share is 50 percent, said Adam Minton, the sales director of the company, whose products include tabletop heaters and ones shaped like pyramids.

Interest has come from several northern cities grappling with falling temperatures, but New York in particular is a hive of activity, Mr. Minton said, adding that the city has gone from being “no market” last year to the company’s largest today.

“There is such a demand that people say, ‘I don’t care if it glows or doesn’t glow. I just need heat,’” Mr. Minton said. “They don’t even ask about cost or coverage area.”

For some businesses, like restaurants, the timing can be crucial. As states like California and Michigan move to impose business restrictions, including shutting down indoor dining, having a space outside can offer a chance to survive the pandemic.

“I think it’s going to be a very difficult winter, and a lot more restaurants will close,” said Andrew Moger, the chief executive of BCD, a restaurant consulting group whose clients have included Westville, Dinosaur Bar-b-que and Benihana.

The surge in demand has caught some stores flat-footed. Major hardware retailers like Lowe’s and Home Depot are frequently out of stock, say shoppers who have combed through aisles.

“Like all retailers, we have seen high demand for many items, and our merchants and supply chain teams have been working to replenish what they can,” a Home Depot spokeswoman said.

Many of the outdoor heaters sold in the United States are made in China, which is struggling to keep up with the heightened interest. Chinese factories used to take two months to fill Radtec’s orders, and they now take three, Mr. Minton said.

Yet prices for heaters, which come in propane, natural gas or electric versions, don’t yet seem to be climbing, possibly because the huge volume of business allows manufacturers to keep their costs down, analysts say.

Despite skyrocketing use, the cost of propane is similarly stable, said Tucker Perkins, the chief executive of the Propane Education and Research Council, an advocacy group based in Washington.

In 2019, U.S. consumers burned through 284 million gallons of propane in heaters, grills and other appliances, Mr. Perkins said. In 2020, that number is likely to nearly double to 500 million gallons.

Still, those small-scale uses are a drop in the bucket compared with consumption in the overall national market, which is about 10 billion gallons a year, he said.

New York, which mostly banned the gas for use in commercial heat lamps until reversing course in October to help struggling restaurants, “is now the epicenter of the growth,” Mr. Perkins said, with 60,000 gallons consumed a day.

Snapping up heaters this summer, well in advance of the winter season, appears to have been a smart move for business owners. Well-timed renovations also helped, said Mr. Barak of La Pecora, whose SoHo location was being remodeled when the pandemic hit.

During construction, workers upgraded gas lines and installed wiring, improvements that might have been difficult to pull off in a place that was already open, he said. The renovation included wall-mounted electric heaters as a backup and a transformer to power them.

To prepare for La Pecora’s opening late last month, Mr. Barak also added rows of mushroom-shaped free-standing heaters, powered by both natural gas and propane, along the sidewalk at his restaurant, which can accommodate 80 people outside and 40 inside. All told, the heat-related extras cost “a few hundred thousand dollars, he said, adding, “I don’t think anyone else has more heat per seat than we do.”

New York may have relaxed some heater rules, but fires remain a concern. Businesses are still not allowed to store full propane tanks on-site over fears of setting off an explosion. But heaters churn through about four gallons a day — the amount inside a 20-pound tank used for most grills — meaning restaurants with heaters burning day and night can face regular fuel shortages.

And existing propane services tended to punch out early, leaving businesses with late-night hours stranded. To meet that demand, Derek Kaye, who ran a fleet of food trucks before the pandemic stunted his business, switched gears this summer to start NYC Propane Delivery, a six-employee business that supplies tanks to restaurants daily from dawn to midnight. “Hopefully, that will continue,” Mr. Kaye said.

Offices, too, are trying to make their outdoor spaces cozier. At Industry City, a sprawling office, retail and industrial complex on the Brooklyn waterfront, its owners Jamestown and Belvedere Capital Real Estate Partners have spent $1 million on heaters and tents, purchased this summer, to encourage tenants to socialize in the alleys between the development’s repurposed brick buildings. About 70 heaters are now installed, including an electric version in an existing yurt, said Kathe Chase, Industry City’s director of leasing.

Of the 8,500 employees who worked in the complex before the pandemic, 50 percent still regularly show up for work, Ms. Chase said. At the same time, 500,000 square feet, or 12 percent of the complex, have leased since March, she added.

“Nobody has a crystal ball about what will happen,” Ms. Chase said. “But this is not just a Covid fix. We think people will live differently after this.”

But not every business can heat outdoor spaces, and some are turning to rudimentary alternatives.

Tishman Speyer, a national office landlord, is not permitted to place heaters on some high-floor terraces of its Rockefeller Center, over concerns that wind could send them flying. Portable heaters also can’t be positioned too close to walls, said Thais Galli, a Tishman Speyer managing director.

But many of the employees who do come into the office — about 15 percent of pre-pandemic totals — prefer to hold meetings on the terraces, so wind-blocking options, like Plexiglass screens, rows of evergreens and plastic igloos, are now under consideration, Ms. Galli said.

At One Federal Street, a Tishman Speyer high-rise in Boston, the landlord hands out complimentary single-use fleece blankets and wool hats for those who want to grab a breath of fresh air on the lawn-lined ninth-floor terrace, where most heaters are also verboten.

“It’s a real work in progress,” Ms. Galli said.





No.33 article:
How Parents Can Tame the Stress of Climate Crises

When pandemic parenting is topped off by wildfires, hurricanes and other extreme events, some stress-relieving measures are particularly suited to getting through the challenges.

My 3-year-old awoke recently, chirping happily in her bed while it was still dark outside, so I was surprised to see that the clock read 7:45 a.m. Normally, the autumn sun in Northern California would be fairly high by that time. But ash and smoke from raging wildfires dimmed the sun — in what the news labeled “turbulent mixing.” For four days, the sky remained a stubborn bruise of apocalyptic orange-gray.

My husband, our two young children and I remained housebound as the air swirled with particulates, reaching the worst recorded air quality levels around the globe. Television images of catastrophic wildfires burning along the Pacific corridor added a further sense of confinement and despair to the pandemic gloom.

As a psychotherapist practicing in a national mental health crisis, I knew my clients were struggling to cope with new fears on top of the existing stresses from the grinding pandemic: health risks, economic instability and the strain of distance learning, overlaying racial violence and uncertainty about the election.

Unlike the invisibility of the coronavirus, evidence of extreme weather and climate events — like wildfire smoke, trees bending and snapping in high-speed winds, flooding and flames — contribute to collective “eco-anxiety” related to the climate crisis. A recent study by the Helsinki Institute of Sustainability Science has identified a common denominator: “uncertainty, unpredictability and uncontrollability, all of which are classic ingredients in anxiety.”

No matter how functional or resilient parents are, or what kind of resources they have available, it is normal to struggle under these conditions.

While in moderation, stress can motivate us, protect us and elicit growth, stress becomes problematic when it gains traction and escalates into panic or chronic stress.

“Uncertainty poses a tremendous challenge to our well-being,” said Dr. Kenneth Ginsburg, director of the Center for Parent and Teen Communication at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and author of “Building Resilience in Children and Teens.”

“We are designed to run from tigers and know what to do. But the most uncomfortable experience is wondering if a tiger is lurking behind the bushes — and to have to be vigilant at all times.”

Dr. Robin Cooper, co-founder of the Climate Psychiatry Alliance, noted: “A flood or hurricane occurs, which is massively destructive, but then it’s over. Fires are different because they persist for months on end, shattering the foundation of stability and security that is essential for parents to instill in their children so they are able to navigate the world.”

Parents expect a lot from themselves normally. But when the world is in a state of upheaval, it’s no longer parenting-as-usual. How can overwhelmed parents keep their families afloat?

Kids take emotional cues from parents, so when parents calm themselves, they can help calm family members. Psychologists call this co-regulation.

Dr. Ginsburg said that during stressful times, the job of a parent of young children is “to look like a duck gliding on the water,” creating an atmosphere of safety and comfort. Adolescents, though, “need to know what you are doing to stay afloat,” he said. “You show them how you’re paddling your feet underwater because you want to help build their skill set.”

Classic stress relievers — getting exercise, deep breathing, spending time in nature, and creative self-expression (art, music, dance, writing)— are helpful. So are safety planning and emergency preparedness. But some additional stress-reducing behaviors are particularly suited for climate catastrophe and quarantine.

Research tells us that social isolation is an acute stressor, while connection heals. But while physical distancing limits us, we must find ways to maintain social connections.

Merritt Juliano, co-president of Climate Psychology Alliance North America, plans to offer free, virtual “Climate Cafes” for parents to exchange supportive dialogue around the climate emergency. Climate cafes — not just for parents — are happening all over the world; in the pre-Covid era, they were held at cafes or other public spaces. Typically, a facilitator is present to encourage reflectiveness and sharing thoughts and feelings around the issue of climate change. Ms. Juliano said: “The single-most important thing parents can do to build resilience is their own inner work around climate change. Having processed their emotional reactions, and accepted the situation, they can then stay present with their kids.”

Routine and predictability offset chaos. “There are so many things that we can’t do, so it is important to find things that we can do right now,” said Dr. Bonnie Goldstein, a clinical psychologist in Los Angeles. “The goal is to feel a little more in control.” Establishing daily structure and maintaining routines encourages nervous systems to settle. As Dr. Ginsburg put it: “We cannot control the outside world, but we can be intentional about creating sanctuaries within our homes.”

Using our five senses as anchors is a simple tool for focusing on the present moment. When we are stressed, our minds grow noisy, we fall out of sync with the world around us. Natural surroundings are ideal anchors, chock-full of sensory stimuli, like a scented breeze or birdsong. But if we can’t venture outside, we can anchor by finding something pleasurable inside: a painting, a soft pillow, tasty food. What emerges from this grounding is a sense of spontaneous gratitude. Dr. Goldstein suggests bringing something from nature — a plant, bark, a shell, or even fruit — inside and creating a visual display, or an altar of sorts, in a designated corner.

Channeling worries and frustrations into community action is a potent eco-stress reducer; participatory action is productive, empowering and transformative. Finding ways, as Dr. Ginsburg put it, “to uplift the vulnerable” supports others and creates meaning and purpose at times of existential crisis.

The good news is that we can all learn to be more resilient. While some research suggests there may be a possible genetic predisposition to resilience, our brain’s neuroplasticity allows us to learn and integrate new forms of resilience through practice and repetition. How we appraise a difficult situation also makes a difference. Do we feel overwhelmed, or buoyed by our own strengths and resources?

And what of the familiar trope that kids are resilient? Yes, there’s truth to it, though we’d be wrong to think that’s all they need.

Right after my youngest woke me that abnormally dark morning, my 5-year-old flung open a door and announced: “Well, the birds are OK, so it’s fine!” While there is naïveté in this response, there is also a seed of resilience. As her mother, I plan to water that seed, alongside my own.

Ariella Cook-Shonkoff is a licensed psychotherapist and art therapist based in Berkeley, Calif.





No.34 article:
As Hiking Surges During the Pandemic, So Do Injuries

Novice hikers and climbers have flocked to the outdoors, but some are unprepared for the dangers on the trails.

Outdoor activities have become a popular pastime during the coronavirus pandemic as adventure seekers and couch surfers alike take to hiking trails for a bit of a reprieve.

But while hiking might be a safe, socially distanced activity, the challenges of weather, nature and physical strain have led to a rash of injuries and some deaths on the trails. 

In September, three hikers, two who were rock climbing at the time, died in six days in the White Mountains in New Hampshire.  A hiker in Mount Rainier National Park in Washington who encountered a whiteout was revived after his heart stopped for 45 minutes. And a woman who went missing for two days on Mount Whitney in California died from her injuries after being rescued in November.

“Every year there’s at least one local who dies in mountains,” said Megan Jennings of Jackson, Wyo., who lost a friend in an avalanche this spring in the nearby Grand Tetons. “Death is something that happens frequently.”

People who hike often are aware of the associated risks. Jennings, 24, grew up in the shadow of the Grand Tetons, where visitors increased 88 percent in October compared with last October, the highest level for the month that the park has had. This summer, Jennings and Julia Olson, 23, set off before dawn on a clear Tuesday morning to run the Teton Crest Trail, the first time they had run the trails.

Within the first few miles, they encountered a bear and a mountain lion, escaping unscathed without needing to call for search and rescue. Jennings, who works in conservation, knew that they were as prepared as they could be. And lucky.

The increase in parkgoers — upward of 90 percent over the previous year in some parks — has added pressure to staff members and the authorities, who are already under financial and staffing constraints because of the pandemic.

“People need to be careful, especially now, as resources for search and rescue can be thin,” said Lisa Herron, a spokeswoman for the United States Forest Service at Lake Tahoe Basin in California.

The agency has not yet compiled data on injuries and deaths for the year, but several park rangers and rescue agency representatives say anecdotally the incidents have increased with the surge in visitors.

The trails, backcountry and camping sites around Lake Tahoe have a variety of weather conditions, including avalanches, snowstorms and, during wildfire season, smoke and poor air quality.

Despite wildfires across most of the West Coast that kept the Tahoe Rim Trail inaccessible at the end of summer, the trail has had more campers, hikers and bike and horse riders than in previous years. Morgan Steel, the executive director of the Tahoe Rim Trail Association, said visitation was not slowing down as fast as usual.

“We usually see a significant change from fall to winter around here; with several feet of snow, you have more experienced people on the trails out there,” she said. “Though we’ve had a pretty significant drop in use, there’s been a big trend in use upward over all.”

El Dorado County, one of the five counties surrounding Lake Tahoe, has backcountry and wilderness — including Desolation Wilderness, which is accessible only on foot or horseback — and has had an increase in calls this year for aid related to illness, injury and being lost, according to the sheriff’s office.

Sgt. Eric Palmberg of the El Dorado County Sheriff’s Office said many of the calls involved people “way out of their experience level and possibly taking more risks due to the pandemic and being cooped up at home.”

At Zion National Park, there has been a 5 percent increase in visitors since it reopened in May compared to last year and a 30 percent rise in October compared to October 2019. Extreme heat has made rock climbing difficult, but bike rentals have boomed. More bikers and hikers have been calling for help with minor injuries and ailments — ankle sprains, heat exhaustion and cuts and scrapes from crashes — than in previous years.

As it gets colder and coronavirus case counts have surged to record highs across the country, many states have instituted curfews, mask mandates and stricter social distancing protocols.

Though a necessity, rescuers wearing masks move slower, said David Walsh, the assistant chief of law enforcement for the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department. It has been difficult for responders to carry injured hikers down steep slopes, sometimes for over eight miles, in a mask. 

“The increased strain can sometimes delay a six-hour rescue mission; sometimes it gets to be eight hours,” he said.

At mountainous parks, changes in temperature and conditions, depending on elevation — a 60-degree swing, in some cases — often catch new visitors off guard.

Jonathan Milne, a former ranger who works in conservation in New Hampshire and Maine, said, “When you go up in altitude, it sets off a cascade of issues.”

But nature lovers will continue coming despite the cold.

“In the winter, people are still coming for hiking and photos, as well as more enthused hikers looking for a challenge,” said Susan McPartland, who oversees visitation at Zion National Park. “It’s really hard to tell if we’ll see increased visitation this winter, but we’re still a little busier than usual this November. Someone needs to find the crystal ball.”





No.35 article:
A Chilling Question Divides Europe: Open Ski Slopes or Keep Them Closed?

Leading up to the Christmas season, France, Germany and Italy will keep slopes shut, but Austria and Switzerland have vowed to reopen theirs, in Europe’s latest struggle to coordinate a pandemic response.

Weeks before the coronavirus pandemic swept across Europe in February, some of the first virus clusters on the continent appeared in ski resorts in the Alps, leading to cascading outbreaks as ski enthusiasts returned home.

Now, with the Christmas holiday season in sight, leaders in France, Germany and Italy indicated this week that ski slopes would remain closed at least until the end of the year, wary of repeating the waves of infections fueled by negligence in the early days and relaxed restrictions over summer.

Yet with Austria and Switzerland vowing to reopen their resorts, a high-altitude rivalry is once again putting to the test attempts by European countries to coordinate their response to the pandemic when it comes to tourism.

European nations have for months struggled to adopt a unified response, each imposing their own restrictions. And while many imposed new lockdowns this month, some, like France, are easing restrictions ahead of the holidays. Poland and Hungary also blocked a landmark agreement forged by the European Union to raise a 750 billion euro ($894 billion) relief fund.

European tourism has been hit hard by the pandemic, with up to 11.5 million jobs in the sector at risk, according to the European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has called for a European Union-wide ban on ski tourism, and President Emmanuel Macron of France has argued that the risks linked to the coronavirus make it impossible to allow winter sports. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy said the winter holidays would lead to a third wave of infections and called for a coordinated response by at least these three countries.

But the inconsistent restrictions across the Alps have already created tensions.

Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria has called efforts to coordinate the closing of ski resorts “exaggerated,” pointing out the European Union has no say in how member states handle sports.

On top of increased risks of widespread coronavirus infections during the winter holidays, the authorities in France fear that ski-related injuries could overwhelm health care facilities that fared better during the second wave of the pandemic than in the first.

Amid the first wave, many Alps resorts remained open until mid-March. The ski and party hub of Ischgl in western Austria did so even after the authorities in Iceland informed Austria’s health ministry that a group of returning tourists had been infected there.

A consumer group is suing the Austrian government for damages on behalf of several dozen people who said they were infected with the coronavirus in Ischgl because the authorities did not respond quickly enough.

A report commissioned by the state of Tyrol found that “grievous miscalculations” on the part of local authorities in Ischgl and “miscommunication” by Mr. Kurz contributed to the outbreak in the ski resort. Ischgl’s mayor, Werner Kurz, who is not related to the chancellor, has insisted that the authorities in the town followed all of the health authorities’ instructions.

“There was nothing more we could do,” he said.

Markus Söder, the governor of Germany’s southern region of Bavaria, which neighbors Austria, said it was vital not to overlook the risks involved. “Half of Europe was infected through Ischgl in the spring,” he said. “This is no joke.”

Yet the town has already said that its ski season will begin in mid-December with safety measures in place.

Franz Hoerl, the chairman of the Austrian cable car association and a lawmaker in the Tyrol region, where Ischgl is located, said that the major outbreaks in the spring originated not in ski lifts or on the slopes, but in post-ski parties. He said in an emailed statement that such gatherings would not be allowed this winter.

Germany’s more than seven million skiers make up an essential part of Austria’s ski industry, with many heading across the border on regular weekend day trips. But Mr. Söder said that anyone crossing even for a day would be subject to Germany’s quarantine regulations for travelers coming from high-risk areas, which includes all of Austria.

For many, the ski season is seen as a critical test. Winter tourism generated €14.9 billion for Austria last year, according to government statistics, and the authorities hope that one of the strictest lockdown in Europe, introduced this month, will drive down the number of infections enough to guarantee a safe holiday season. Austria, which currently has one of the highest infection rates in Europe, is also set to start the continent’s largest mass-testing program next week.

In France, where restrictions are being gradually lifted starting this weekend, the authorities said that ski resorts — but not ski lifts — would be allowed to open. “Everybody is free to travel to resorts to enjoy the clean air of our beautiful mountains,” Prime Minister Jean Castex said at a news conference on Thursday.

The decision to keep lifts closed has sowed anger and confusion among tourism and ski professionals, who say that the Christmas holiday season amounts to up to a quarter of the French industry’s €11 billion annual revenue.

Cyprien Durand, the head of ski instructors in the village of Megève, near the Swiss border, said professionals had worked for months to adapt their resorts. He called the government’s decision “incoherent and destabilizing.”

“Like everyone else, we’ve learned from the first wave,” Mr. Durand said in a telephone interview. “Winter sports mean open air, and for the lifts, we’ve done enough to make sure social distancing measures will be respected.”

Mr. Durand, who manages 360 ski instructors, said he and his colleagues would try to organize other activities like cross-country skiing and snowshoe hiking.

“We’ll welcome visitors who still want to come,” he said.

Across Italy’s mountainous regions, too, officials proposed guidelines, including a 50 percent capacity on cable cars and other protocols, which they say will allow facilities to reopen safely. But Mr. Conte, the prime minister, said that even if ski facilities enforced safety measures, “everything that surrounds them is uncontrollable.”

Laura Magoni, a former Olympic skier and the tourism official for Italy’s northern Lombardy region, said that the decision to close ski facilities would be the “tombstone” of many areas that rely on the mountain economy.

At the border from Switzerland — which is not part of the E.U. and said it would keep its resorts open — Italian business owners said they felt disadvantaged.

“On one side, you see people skiing,” Matteo Zanetti, the president of a cable car company in the border town of Cervinia, said in a telephone interview. “And on the other side, you see the desert.”

While Austria, France, Italy and Switzerland are home to some of Europe’s largest ski resorts, elsewhere on the continent, Spain and Bulgaria said they would let ski resorts open for the winter season. Slovenia said it was awaiting recommendations from the European Commission, which in turn said it was up to member states to decide.

Mr. Zanetti said he worried for the families of ski teachers, alpine guides and ski rental owners whose main sources of revenue will dwindle in the coming months if resorts remain closed.

“These people tied their life to the mountain,” he said.





No.36 article:
Wasn’t It Winter Just Yesterday?

The pandemic has unmoored us from time.

In September, I bought a visual timer for Bert, my 8-year-old son. It’s just like a clock, but instead of hands, it has a red plastic film that turns the hour into a kind of pie chart. Set it to 15 minutes, and it silently counts down. Three beeps when it’s done.

I ordered it when I realized that Bert and I were fighting endless battles over what time meant. As the pandemic lockdown wore on, there were demands for Minecraft sessions to be extended because the previous hour “didn’t really count.” At bedtime it was suddenly urgent to do something else. It was never the right time to walk the dog. The child who had been stuck inside all day was unaccountably tired, with the aching legs of a geriatric.

The clock brought a surprising truce, with Bert obediently turning off his iPad at the end of his allotted time. It reminded me that time is a conjuring trick, but a necessary one. Time is slipping for all of us. November is almost over and it feels like we’ve skipped from one winter to the next without the intervening summer. I sometimes jolt as if from sleep, but it’s really the thud of falling back into time, remembering that it should be binding me to the concurrent lives of other people. It always comes with a terrible shot of guilt, this experience of forgetting, of letting things slide.

My early weeks of lockdown were spent fighting my husband for the scarce resource of time to concentrate on my own work. Emails about home-schooling tasks from my son’s teacher were left unopened, at first by accident and then entirely on purpose. As spring rolled into summer, I only sometimes remembered to look at my calendar, and then panic howled in me: What am I supposed to be doing?

The answer was usually nothing.

Over the long summer, my brain gradually ground to a halt. At first I thought it would pass. It did not. A fog settled, grew thicker. I felt slow, and then slower, and then incapacitated. I couldn’t bear the thought of any more doing. I couldn’t do. When I tried to work, my attention flitted away like the soft avoidance of two magnets. I was engaged in a process of perpetual forgetting: I would try to work, and then find myself not working, and wonder, dazed, what had happened in between. In all these months since Covid arrived, while I was trying to be defiant and industrious, I was slowly winding down.

Every night, when I reached for the serum that’s supposed to fight the action of the years on my face, it seemed only seconds away from the last time I did it, and the time before that. It was startling: There went another 24 hours, all in a rush. It was as if these moments were pleated together with a single stitch, the fabric of existence gathering so tightly that my whole life could be drawn together and would pass that way, quite suddenly.

At the same time, I watched so many people around me suffer while I got off lightly. I did not, like several of my friends, lose a parent or a partner. I did not, like a family dear to me, see my teenage daughter admitted to a hospital halfway across the country at the start of lockdown, and have to wait three months to see her again. I did not lose my income or watch my business putter into nonexistence.

In the absence of these things, I felt I had to wear a brave face and make the most of it. I tried to tamp down my fears that the world was carrying on without me, while I stayed at home and succumbed to the fog. I felt a responsibility to be the one who coped. But that’s not how this works. You cannot parlay your suffering against the endurance of others. You don’t get to choose when the undertow drags you, or how.

It just comes, and comes again, and the only option is to let it take you.

The suspended anxiety of this year is not entirely unfamiliar to me. I have fallen through the cracks of life before. I’ve come to think of these times of life as wintering, a season outside the usual ebb and flow, when the comforting bustle of everyday society falls out of reach. Most of us have been to this place. We arrive there in the wake of illness, depression or bereavement; that darkness may yawn open during major life events like divorce or job loss. However we come to it, wintering is usually involuntarily, lonely and bitterly painful.

This year has brought us into close contact with loss. Many winters have come all at once. But within these winters, there is the seed of something necessary. We tend to imagine that our lives are linear, but they are in fact cyclical. As we grow older, we pass through phases of good health and ill, of optimism and deep doubt, of freedom and constraint. There are times when everything seems easy, and times when it all seems impossibly hard. Each time we endure the cycle, we learn from the previous round, and we do a few things better. This is how wisdom is made.

When the time arrives, we will be ready to go back into social spaces with a renewed sense of purpose, with compassion recharged. We will take better action because of it. We are learning something in this free-floating time. Something about the easy way that all human life can be overturned. Something about the slow heartbeat of the seasons.





No.37 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.38 article:
Black Friday: Holiday Shopping in a Pandemic 





No.39 article:
Iranian Diplomat Accused of Plotting to Bomb Dissidents Goes on Trial in Belgium

Prosecutors say the diplomat, Assadollah Assadi, was carrying out a plan organized by Iran’s intelligence services against an overseas opposition group.

BRUSSELS — The bomb was handed over at a Pizza Hut in Luxembourg. The intent, prosecutors say, was to blow up a rally in France of a prominent opposition group to the Iranian government.

An Iranian diplomat based in Vienna and three other Iranians went on trial on Friday in Antwerp, Belgium, over the alleged plot, which the Belgian and French authorities say was organized by Iran’s intelligence services and which was tipped off to them by Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency.

The prosecutors have accused the Iranian diplomat, Assadollah Assadi, 48, of bringing the bomb, a little more than a pound of TATP explosives and a detonator, to Vienna from Iran in his luggage on an Austrian Airlines flight. He then drove it to Luxembourg in a rented car and handed it over to an Iranian-Belgian couple on June 30, 2018, in the Pizza Hut, prosecutors say.

The couple, Amir Saadouni, 40, and his wife, Nassimeh Naami, 36, had been granted political asylum and later citizenship in Belgium. They were arrested two days later as they drove to Paris from Antwerp on the day of the rally. Mr. Assadi was arrested at a service station in Germany, where he had no diplomatic immunity, on his way back to Vienna.

French and Belgian officials believe the three Iranians are agents of the Iranian intelligence ministry. A fourth man, Mehrdad Arefani, 57, also Iranian-Belgian, is accused of being an accomplice of Mr. Assadi. The four are charged with attempting to carry out a terrorist attack and face sentences of up to 20 years in prison.

As the proceedings began in Antwerp on Friday, Mr. Assadi chose not to appear. His lawyer, Dimitri de Beco, said his client contested the charges and would raise procedural issues, including a claim of diplomatic immunity.

The authorities say the target of the plot was the annual convention in Villepinte, outside Paris, of the National Council of Resistance in Iran, the political wing of the Mujahedeen Khalq, or M.E.K.

The leader of the council, Maryam Rajavi, is a controversial figure who has been compared to the leader of a cult along with her husband, Massoud Rajavi, who disappeared during the Iraq war in 2003 and is believed to be dead.

Ms. Rajavi advocates a revolution in Iran and says she would act as interim president of a new government. The bomb plot, prosecutors believe, was aimed at killing her.

The 2018 convention was also attended by well-known international figures, including former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York; the former House speaker Newt Gingrich; the former F.B.I. director Louis Freeh; former Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico; former Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada; and the Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt. In the past, such figures have been paid large sums for their appearances and lobbying activities.

The M.E.K., which Ms. Rajavi also leads, has a complicated history. It began in opposition to the shah of Iran and later was declared a terrorist organization by the European Union until 2009 and by the United States until 2012.

Iran’s government has a complicated structure, with organizations like the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps often seeming to operate separately from the government.

Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif called the allegations of a bomb plot a “false flag” operation designed to embarrass Tehran just before President Hassan Rouhani traveled to Europe to rally support for the 2015 nuclear deal that President Trump abandoned about two months before the opposition group’s meeting.

But the head of Belgium’s State Security Service, Jaak Raes, said that intelligence officials had determined the planned bombing was a state-sanctioned operation, approved in Tehran.

“The plan to attack was conceived on behalf of Iran and under its leadership,” Mr. Raes wrote in a letter to law enforcement officials, including the Belgian federal prosecutor, Frédéric Van Leeuw. “It was not a personal initiative of Assadi.”

The trial comes as Mr. Zarif and Mr. Rouhani are trying to restore better relations with the United States after the election of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

In addition, elections in Iran are scheduled for June, with the government’s more hard-line opponents expected to do well, while the European Union is trying to keep the 2015 Iran nuclear deal alive until the Biden administration takes office.

The allegation of a bomb plot is not the first example of Tehran’s efforts to eliminate opposition abroad. Iran is accused of planning an assassination in Denmark, also in 2018, that embarrassed the European Union when Denmark called for sanctions against Iran.

But the Europeans have always emphasized that the 2015 deal was aimed only at Iran’s nuclear program and would not be affected by other issues, including state-sponsored terrorism.

The trial is expected to last several days, with a court judgment early next year.





No.40 article:
Quotation of the Day: Scathing Ruling Sinks President in Pennsylvania

“Voters, not lawyers, choose the president. Ballots, not briefs, decide elections.”

JUDGE STEPHANOS BIBAS, writing on behalf of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, ruling that the Trump campaign could not stop or try to reverse the certification of the voting results in Pennsylvania.





No.41 article:
Trump Gave W.H.O. a List of Demands. Hours Later, He Walked Away.

When President Trump quit the health organization, he left a list of seven demands on the table. Here they are.

GENEVA — In late May, the American ambassador in Geneva, Andrew Bremberg, went on a rescue mission to the World Health Organization headquarters. He told its director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, that despite weeks of threats that President Trump would quit the health organization, the relationship could still be salvaged.

Mr. Bremberg hand-delivered a list of seven demands that American officials saw as the beginning of discreet discussions.

Hours later, Mr. Trump took the lectern outside the White House and blew it all up, announcing that the United States would leave the W.H.O. The announcement blindsided his own diplomats and Dr. Tedros alike.

If Mr. Trump thought Dr. Tedros would relent under the pressure of an American withdrawal, he was wrong. The W.H.O. leader has refused to make concessions or counteroffers, according to American and Western officials. And Mr. Trump ultimately made good on his promise to abandon a health agency that the United States helped form a half-century ago.

With Mr. Trump’s election defeat, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. appears ready to rejoin the global health body. But he will inherit a fractured relationship, and must quickly make decisions about how to overhaul an organization that even staunch supporters say is in dire need of change.

While the Trump administration’s demands are now moot, they offer a glimpse into both the growing American frustration with the W.H.O. and Mr. Trump’s personal grievances. And as Mr. Biden signals a return to multinational diplomacy, the Trump administration’s demands offer a behind-the-scenes glimpse of the deal-making of a president who favored aggressive, unpredictable moves over more conventional negotiations.

As has often been the case during Mr. Trump’s presidency, his administration was divided, current and former officials said.

Diplomats and veteran health officials said the list contained reasonable requests that might have been easily negotiated through normal channels. (The W.H.O. has since made some changes anyway.) But it also contained politically sensitive, if not inappropriate demands. “It doesn’t seem to reveal a clear strategic vision,” said Gian Luca Burci, a former counsel to the health organization who reviewed the list for The Times.

The experts said it was easy to see why, in the face of Mr. Trump’s withdrawal and his efforts to deflect blame for the pandemic, Dr. Tedros chose not to negotiate.

“It was an enormous backfire, and it was bound to be,” added Lawrence Gostin, a Georgetown University law professor and longtime W.H.O. adviser who also reviewed the list. “It wasn’t a negotiation. It was blackmail.”

The State Department did not directly address its proposed terms but said it had acted in good faith in calling for needed changes. “At a critical moment when the W.H.O. leadership had the opportunity to rebuild trust among some of its critical member states, it chose a path that did the very opposite and demonstrated its lack of independence from the Chinese Communist Party,” Mr. Bremberg, the American ambassador in Geneva, said in a statement.

The World Health Organization did not comment. Several current and former Trump administration officials and Western diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose private conversations.

The American list was the product of months of growing irritation with Dr. Tedros, whom senior administration officials saw as too quick to praise China or frame the outbreak in ways favorable to Beijing. Dr. Tedros, for example, announced in January that China would share biological samples with the world. But he declined to speak up when China never made good on that promise.

The W.H.O. had also quietly acquiesced to Beijing’s conditions before an international mission in February and ceded control of an investigation into the virus’s origins.

Some European health officials and diplomats shared the Trump administration’s concerns, officials said. But they regarded these as minor issues in the midst of a pandemic.

Mr. Trump was particularly focused on the issue of travel. The W.H.O. had a longstanding policy of unrestricted travel. As health experts began reconsidering that policy, Mr. Trump became preoccupied with getting credit for having halted some travel from China to the United States in February.

By April, as Mr. Trump toyed with withdrawing the United States from the W.H.O., two camps emerged in his administration, current and former officials said. The first group, which included Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, wanted to leave and rally support for a health agency built around Western allies.

Others, like Mr. Bremberg; Alex M. Azar II, the health secretary; and Adam Boehler, the head of the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, argued that only the W.H.O. was backed up by a global treaty. If the United States could get the health agency to make changes, they said, it made sense to stay.

That argument prevailed into May, and Mr. Trump wrote a letter — which he released on Twitter — with an ultimatum. He would leave the W.H.O. if it did not “commit to major substantive improvements within the next 30 days.”

Exactly what changes Mr. Trump sought, however, remained unclear. The final list emerged from discussions between the White House, State Department and the Department of Health and Human Services. In Geneva, Mr. Bremberg consulted with European allies, who were eager to keep Mr. Trump from abandoning the health organization, Western diplomats said.

By late May, the list stood at seven items. The first called for investigations into the W.H.O.’s handling of the outbreak and the source of the virus. American officials said they saw this as an easy request: More than 140 countries had already endorsed these investigations.

In July, Dr. Tedros would do just that. He appointed Helen Clark, the former prime minister of New Zealand, and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the former president of Liberia, to lead an investigation into the response to the pandemic. A separate investigation into the virus’s origins is slowly getting underway.

Second, the United States asked Dr. Tedros to call on China to provide live virus samples and stop censoring Chinese doctors or journalists. This would have been a significant break for the World Health Organization, which rarely criticizes members. Dr. Tedros has told colleagues that he sees no benefit in such criticism, especially during a pandemic.

Conceding to the Trump administration’s demand would have meant allowing one country to dictate the organization’s posture toward another. But in Washington, one senior White House official recalled this as a key condition, a signal of Dr. Tedros’s independence.

The third item asked Dr. Tedros to say that countries were right to consider travel restrictions during the pandemic — a break from the longstanding advice that limiting travel would not slow the virus but would harm economies and delay medical treatment.

The W.H.O. had already begun to soften that stance by the time Mr. Bremberg delivered the list. In April, the organization called for “appropriate and proportionate restrictions” on domestic and international travel.

But Dr. Tedros interpreted the request as demanding that he apologize to Mr. Trump and say he was right to restrict travel from China, according to public health officials and diplomats who have talked to him. Dr. Tedros was wary of being drawn into the American presidential campaign, where travel restrictions were a rallying cry for the Trump campaign.

Mr. Gostin, who agrees that the W.H.O. should study and revisit its travel guidance, said it was inappropriate for the United States to try to strong-arm the change. He said the list smacked of politics, not good health policy. “It was all about my country, my politics, my election,” he said.

The fourth item on the list called for the W.H.O. to dispatch a team to Taiwan to study its successful pandemic response. Taiwan is not a member of the health organization, and Beijing, which claims the self-ruled island as its own, exerts tremendous pressure to keep the W.H.O. from engaging with Taiwan’s government.

The American requests also called for the W.H.O. to pre-qualify coronavirus drugs and vaccines for use around the world once they were authorized by major regulators in the United States, Canada, Europe or Japan. That could help fast-track important treatments, but it could also have been seen as allowing the United States to influence the health organization’s drug-approval policy.

The Trump administration also asked Dr. Tedros to ensure that countries like the United States that contribute heavily to the W.H.O. are proportionally represented on the organization’s staff. And it sought support for proposed changes put forward by the Group of 7 — the United States, Germany, Japan, France, Britain, Canada and Italy. That request is moot, as the G-7 proposal has been folded into larger overhaul efforts.

By the time Mr. Bremberg and Dr. Tedros met in Geneva, however, the political ground had shifted in Washington.

Mr. Meadows, the White House chief of staff, believed that negotiations with Dr. Tedros were a long shot. Even if they succeeded, he argued, they would take too long and yield too little, one senior administration official recalled.

Mr. Trump had already planned a news conference criticizing China. Shortly before the event, the president’s national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, joined Mr. Meadows, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Mr. Boehler in Mr. Meadows’s office in the West Wing, according to the official. From that meeting emerged a plan: Mr. Trump would withdraw the country from the World Health Organization.

Mr. Trump agreed, and added the announcement to the news conference. He had done something similar in 2018, announcing that he was quitting a United Nations postal pact, only to reverse himself after winning concessions.

Dr. Tedros showed no appetite for such deal-making. He told colleagues that he felt boxed in, stuck between China and the United States. Speaking to reporters soon after Mr. Trump’s announcement, Dr. Tedros said that American partnership had served humanity for decades.

“It has made a great difference in public health all around the world,” he said. “It is W.H.O.’s wish for this collaboration to continue.”



No.1 article:
Up to 43 slaughtered and a further six seriously injured, say anti-jihadist militia

Boko Haram fighters killed at least 43 farm workers and wounded six in rice fields near the north-east Nigerian city of Maiduguri on Saturday, anti-jihadist militia told AFP.

The assailants tied up the agricultural workers and slit their throats in the village of Koshobe, the militia said.

“We have recovered 43 dead bodies, all of them slaughtered, along with six others with serious injuries,” said militia leader Babakura Kolo, who helped the survivors.

“It is no doubt the handiwork of Boko Haram who operate in the area and frequently attack farmers.”

The victims were labourers from Sokoto state in north-west Nigeria, roughly 1,000 kilometres (600 miles) away, who had travelled to the north-east to find work, said another militiaman Ibrahim Liman who corroborated the death toll.

“There were 60 farmers who were contracted to harvest paddy in the rice fields. 43 were slaughtered, with six injured,” Liman said.

Eight others were missing, presumed to have been kidnapped by the jihadists, he said.

The bodies were taken to Zabarmari village, two kilometres away, where they would be kept ahead of burial on Sunday, said resident Mala Bunu who took part in the search and rescue operation.

The attack is one of the worst waged by the rival jihadist groups in the region since Boko Haram’s insurgency began in 2009.

Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, said through a spokesman in a tweet: “I condemn the killing of our hardworking farmers by terrorists in Borno state. The entire country is hurt by these senseless killings. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. May their souls rest in peace.”

Nigerian government officials have long insisted that jihadists were “technically defeated” and reduced to sporadic attacks. Refugees across the north-east have been urged to return home to a region the government has said is now safe.

But beyond major cities and garrison towns where military presence is strong, significant parts of north-east Nigeria remain acutely vulnerable, with people effectively occupied and governed by roaming jihadists groups. Attacks in the north-east – particularly targeting farmers, security forces and aid workers – have increased in recent years.

Last month Boko Haram militants slaughtered 22 farmers working on their irrigation fields near Maiduguri in two separate attacks.

Boko Haram and ISWAP, its IS-linked rival, have increasingly targeted loggers, herders and fishermen in their violent campaign, accusing them of spying and passing information to the military and the local militia fighting them.

At least 36,000 people have been killed in the conflict, which has displaced about two million since 2009.

The violence has also spread into neighbouring Niger, Chad and Cameroon, prompting a regional military coalition to fight the militants.

The attack took place as voters went to the polls in local elections in Borno State. The elections had been repeatedly postponed because of an increase in attacks by Boko Haram and ISWAP.

African publication HumAngle reported that the people of the village are refusing to bury the bodies of the 43 victims until the state governor has witnessed the atrocity.





No.2 article:
Angry Tory MPs turn on Gove after ‘overwhelmed NHS’ claims

On Tuesday, MPs will vote on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown in England.

The current lockdown ends on Wednesday and the new strengthened tier system, if approved, comes into force with nearly 99% of England headed for the strictest two tiers. Only the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly are set to go into tier 1, with more than 32 million people in tier 2 and more than 23 million in the toughest tier 3.

In a letter to MPs on Saturday, the prime minister explained that the joint biosecurity centre and ministers will consider data weekly throughout the tiers period, while legislation requires a formal review of tiering allocations every fortnight. The first review point is 16 December, with new tier allocations announced the following day – decided by a cabinet committee chaired by the prime minister. They will come into effect on Saturday 19 December, Boris Johnson said.

For five days over Christmas there will be a UK-wide relaxation of rules to let up to three households form a 'bubble' so they can mix socially indoors and stay overnight to enjoy the festive period together. In Scotland, a maximum of eight people will be allowed but that does not include under-12s. In Northern Ireland, the window has been extended to 22-28 December to allow for additional travel time between countries.

Johnson has announced a “sunset” clause on the tiered restrictions, meaning they will expire on 3 February and require MPs’ approval if they are to be extended into March.

Pressure grows on Covid restrictions, as ‘dingy hospitals’ remark fuels row

Pressure grows on Covid restrictions, as ‘dingy hospitals’ remark fuels row

Boris Johnson was facing a growing Tory mutiny over new Covid-19 restrictions last night as furious Conservative MPs accused the government of exaggerating capacity problems in the NHS in an attempt to win their support.

Ahead of a crucial Commons vote on the new three-tier system on Tuesday, an extraordinary row erupted over claims by Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove that the NHS, including the newly constructed Nightingale hospitals, could be “physically overwhelmed”.

Writing yesterday in the Times, Gove revealed that the earlier decision to impose a second national lockdown had been taken after ministers had been presented with a grim picture of rising Covid-19 cases and Nightingale hospitals at capacity.

“Every bed, every ward occupied,” Gove wrote. Attempting to force rebel Conservatives into line, he told elected members that they had “to take responsibility for difficult decisions” in the national interest.

In a desperate attempt to win potential rebels round, the prime minister wrote to all MPs spelling out that regulations putting areas in tiers would end on 3 February and be reviewed every fortnight until then. He also promised the analysis demanded by many MPs of the health, economic and social impact of Covid-19 and the measures taken to tackle them.

But as Tory MPs objected to Gove’s tone, the argument was stoked further as other Conservatives revealed to the Observer that health minister Nadine Dorries had told a group of them last week that the Nightingale hospitals were in fact largely unfilled because people regarded them as “dark and dingy”, and that it was proving difficult to find the staff to run them. A spokesperson for the Department of Health and Social Care denied she had used those words and said: “Each NHS Nightingale has been developing a clinical model that can be scaled up as and when additional capacity is required in the region. This model ensures that the right skill mix of staff will be available from NHS trusts in the region, NHS professionals and direct recruitment if required.” 

On Tuesday, MPs will vote on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown in England.

The current lockdown ends on Wednesday and the new strengthened tier system, if approved, comes into force with nearly 99% of England headed for the strictest two tiers. Only the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly are set to go into tier 1, with more than 32 million people in tier 2 and more than 23 million in the toughest tier 3.

In a letter to MPs on Saturday, the prime minister explained that the joint biosecurity centre and ministers will consider data weekly throughout the tiers period, while legislation requires a formal review of tiering allocations every fortnight. The first review point is 16 December, with new tier allocations announced the following day – decided by a cabinet committee chaired by the prime minister. They will come into effect on Saturday 19 December, Boris Johnson said.

For five days over Christmas there will be a UK-wide relaxation of rules to let up to three households form a 'bubble' so they can mix socially indoors and stay overnight to enjoy the festive period together. In Scotland, a maximum of eight people will be allowed but that does not include under-12s. In Northern Ireland, the window has been extended to 22-28 December to allow for additional travel time between countries.

Johnson has announced a “sunset” clause on the tiered restrictions, meaning they will expire on 3 February and require MPs’ approval if they are to be extended into March.

A spokesperson for the NHS confirmed that just two of seven Nightingales – Manchester and Exeter – had begun to admit patients.

One senior Tory said: “Ministers like Gove cannot at one and the same time be saying we are on the brink of being overwhelmed unless we adopt far tougher measures, while admitting they are not using any but a tiny number of the emergency capacity beds we have, and that, anyway, they don’t have the staff. If it is as bad as he says, what have they been doing since March?”

Tobias Ellwood, one of the Tory MPs threatening to vote against the government on Tuesday, said Gove had been “completely disingenuous because every one of our Nightingales is underused – they are largely dormant”. On Twitter, he added: “Let’s not place areas in higher tiers, due to local bed pressure when other beds lie empty.”

Johnson announced on Thursday that 99% of the population of England would enter the highest two tiers, with tight restrictions on bars and restaurants, and a ban on households mixing indoors. Only Cornwall, the Isle of Wight and the Isles of Scilly will be in the lowest tier.

Many Tory MPs say the new system imposes excessively tight restrictions on areas with fewer cases which border regions with higher numbers of cases. They have called on ministers to produce more evidence for their decisions and also to publish analysis of the economic cost of imposing the new regime. They also want boundaries to be drawn at a more local level.

Charles Walker, the vice chairman of the 1922 committee of Tory MPs, said he would vote against the government on Tuesday and believed that Gove’s approach had backfired.

He said: “Michael Gove’s intervention has not helped the government’s case. I, like most MPs, have perhaps one or two emails a week from people saying ‘tighten the rules’ but scores from people running businesses asking how they can survive. Members of parliament who have deep concerns about the latest round of restrictions are acting in good faith by representing those who elected them. They are doing what they were elected to do.”

In his letter to MPs the prime minister called these “tough times” requiring “tough decisions”. He said areas could move into lower tiers from 16 December and the government would spell out what was needed before this could happen. A Cabinet meeting on 17 December would spell out what tiers would operate from 19 December. After the fourth fortnightly review on 27 January, parliament would have another vote “determining whether the measures stay in place until the end of March”.

Andy Burnham, the mayor of Greater Manchester, which will be placed in tier 3, accused the government of repeating scare tactics used by ministers during his recent rows with Westminster.

“Gove and the government have form on this,” he said. “They used the same scare tactics against Greater Manchester when they tried to browbeat us into accepting their original flawed tier 3 proposals. It didn’t work then and people should be sceptical of it now.” He said all MPs in tier 3 areas should “think twice” before voting for a system that would give their councils no extra support than those in tier 1 or 2, adding: “It will decimate their towns and cities and is a deliberate act of levelling down.” 

The occupancy rate of Manchester’s Nightingale hospital, he said, was low, while locally the number of intensive-care Covid-19 patients had fallen to its lowest level since early November.

At least 10 Tory MPs are expected to vote against the government on Tuesday, with some two dozen or more said to be deeply uneasy and waiting to see if the government makes concessions. Former Cabinet minister Damian Green, the MP for Ashford in Kent, said: “Unless I see new convincing evidence, I will vote against.” Seven Tory MPs from Kent are due to meet Health and Social Care Secretary Matt Hancock on Monday.

Tory MP Dr Ben Spencer said: “As a doctor, with all my body and soul we absolutely cannot let our NHS be overwhelmed and I agree with Michael Gove that MPs must take responsibility for difficult decisions. That’s why to make these decisions MPs need the harm/benefit analysis and the predicted impact of these restrictions on NHS capacity for their local areas.”

Steve Baker, deputy chair of the 70-strong Covid Recovery Group, which has raised deep concerns of the plans, said he was grateful for the “constructive approach’ and would study the details of Johnson’s letter before Tuesday’s vote. Labour has yet to decide how to vote and is pressing for more financial support for hard-hit areas and businesses.

Bharat Pankhania, senior clinical lecturer at Exeter University Medical School, warned that the risks to individuals were being ignored by those seeking tier relaxation. He said: “It is all very well talking about numbers and infection rates but what about the person who gets infected and ends up with permanently damaged lungs? They are done for life. These are the factors that we should be focussed on.”

Coronavirus expert David Matthews of Bristol University added that the government needed to be much clearer about its motives for imposing strict new measures. “It is imposing them because we don’t want cases to start rising again,” he said. “If unchecked, that would mean people will be left to die, untreated, in their own homes because there would be no hospital beds for them because there were so many other sick individuals. If a person gets seriously ill with Covid, they should have the right to have emergency treatment, dexamethasone, and oxygen in emergency care units. Keeping case numbers low is therefore essential.”

Meanwhile, hospitals have been told to prepare for the rollout of a coronavirus vaccine in as little as 10 days’ time, with NHS workers expected to be at the front of the queue. NHS bosses said hospitals in England could expect to receive their first deliveries of a vaccine produced by Pfizer/BioNTech as soon as Monday 7 December, with regulatory approval anticipated within days.





No.3 article:
Abiy Ahmed claims Mekelle under command of federal forces and that operation in region now complete

Ethiopian troops are now in “full control” of Mekelle, the capital of the northern region of Tigray, the prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, said on Saturday evening.

“With full command of the regional capital, this marks the completion of the Ethiopian National Forces’ last phase … The main operation is successfully concluded,” Abiy said.

There was no immediate confirmation of the claim, nor reaction from the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the ruling party in the restive region. However, if confirmed, the news would probably mean the end of the confrontation between TPLF forces and federal troops on the battlefield.

The advance on Mekelle came almost a week after Abiy told the TPLF leadership to surrender or face an assault on their stronghold. The capture of Mekelle would be seen as a personal triumph for the 44-year-old prime minister and would bolster his position as a national leader. However, experts have said federal forces may face a lengthy insurgency in the region.

With communications to Tigray cut off, it is difficult to confirm information and conflicting claims.

In recent days, Ethiopian federal forces have reinforced their positions in a rough ring around Mekelle, at a distance of 20-40km. Fighting over the last week has included clashes on ridge lines, mountain passes and key road junctions, with heavy casualties reported.

The advance on Saturday appears to have been rapid, with limited resistance. Some experts speculated that the TPLF may have abandoned the city. From 10am, Ethiopian federal forces reportedly used heavy artillery to shell the outskirts of the city of 500,000. Later in the day, the movement of tanks was reported around Mekelle’s airport.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, told Reuters in text messages the city was under “heavy bombardment”. Aid workers in Mekelle said explosions had been seen and heard, though it was unclear whether artillery, tanks or airstrikes were responsible.

Billene Seyoum, a spokesperson for the prime minister’s office, denied the claim, saying “the Ethiopian National Defence Forces do not have a mission to bombard its own city and people”.

Seyoum added: “[Mekelle] remains one of Ethiopia’s key cities and the efforts to bring to justice the criminal clique will not entail discriminatory ‘bombardment’ as alluded by TPLF and their propagandists.” 

In his statement, issued at about 7pm local time, Abiy said that the military part of the “law enforcement operation” undertaken against the TPLF was over and the police would now seek to apprehend the “TPLF criminals and bring them to a court of law”.

In his statement, Abiy thanked the “people of Tigray” for their cooperation with federal forces.

Earlier this week, military officials warned of “no mercy” if residents of Mekelle did not distance themselves from the TPLF. 

Abiy launched the operation three weeks ago in Tigray to “enforce the rule of law in the region and the country” and promised that civilians would be protected.

Earlier in the week the state-affiliated Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation said the federal forces had identified key TPLF hideouts across Mekelle, including an auditorium and a museum. Government planes have dropped leaflets on the city warning inhabitants to stay out of harm’s way.

Some residents fled, with satellite images revealing lengthy queues of vehicles at petrol stations earlier in the week.

Analysts are sceptical that the TPLF high command, who withdrew to Tigray earlier this year as tensions with central government escalated, had stayed in Mekelle, but is likely to have scattered into remote hiding places.

Abiy met envoys sent by the African Union to mediate an end to the crisis on Friday, but they have not been permitted to travel to meet representatives of the TPLF and gave no sign that the national government was contemplating a ceasefire or negotiations.

The TPLF renewed a call for talks on Friday. “Tigray … is ravaged by war … an immediate cessation [of hostilities] is of paramount importance”, Getachew Reda, a political adviser to the leader of the TPLF, said.

Ethiopian officials have made clear they do not recognise the TPLF as a legitimate negotiating partner. A statement from Abiy’s office after a meeting with the envoys said: “Failure to enforce the rule of law [in Tigray] would nurture a culture of impunity in [Ethiopia] with devastating consequences.” 

Abiy launched the military campaign on 4 November, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal military camps in Tigray and seeking to destabilise the country.

The Ethiopian human rights commission has also blamed TPLF-linked militia for a massacre in Tigray of many hundreds of labourers from the neighbouring Amhara region.

The TPLF denies the charges, saying they are concocted by the government as a pretext to launch a military operation to end its rule in Tigray. The party says it is defending its legitimate rights under Ethiopia’s devolved constitutional system.

Ethiopian authorities have made some concessions to international pressure, offering to set up a humanitarian corridor to allow aid to reach the tens of thousands who have been displaced by fighting, and much larger numbers who are suffering from the disruption of supplies of food, fuel and medicine.

Western diplomats and humanitarian officials said the promises were welcome but that nothing had changed on the ground.

“It is encouraging to hear these kinds of things but until there is actual movement to allow aid into Tigray then they don’t mean a lot,” one said. “There are serious issues with the idea of setting up a humanitarian corridor under government control.”

Last week the UN said shortages were “very critical” in Tigray, with fuel and cash running out. 





No.4 article:
Thousands rallied across France after video of police beating a black music producer fanned anger about a draft law that is seen as curbing the right of journalists to report on police brutality





No.5 article:
UK supermarkets unite after Sainsbury&#x27;s advert prompts racist backlash

Aldi, Asda, Co-op, Iceland, Lidl, Marks &amp; Spencer, Sainsbury’s, Tesco and Waitrose run ads back-to-back on Channel 4

A group of leading UK supermarkets have joined together to take a stand against a racist online backlash that followed Sainsbury’s Christmas advertisement featuring a black family.

Aldi, Asda, Co-op, Iceland, Lidl, Marks &amp; Spencer, Sainsbury’s, Tesco and Waitrose ran their adverts back-to-back during two primetime slots on Channel 4 on Friday evening, with the hashtag #StandAgainstRacism. Normally, competitors actively avoid airing their ads close together.

A Channel 4 announcement introduced the ad break, saying: “Channel 4 stands up against racism. After the reaction to this year’s Sainsbury’s Christmas commercial, retailers have put their usual festive rivalries aside across two adbreaks tonight to stand side-by-side with us too.”

The full version of the Sainsbury’s advert, which was met with racist abuse on social media when it aired earlier this month, was also broadcast. It shows a father and daughter talking over the phone about looking forward to Christmas, interspersed with flashbacks to past Christmases while the dad boasts that he makes the best gravy.

Rachel Eyre, the head of brand communications and creative at Sainsbury’s, said: “We strive to be an inclusive retailer and we’re proud to unite with our industry colleagues to stand up against racism. We’re passionate about reflecting modern Britain and celebrating the diversity of the communities we serve, from our advertising to the products we sell.”

An advert by Co-op featuring a black woman was also targeted with racist comments online, leading the brand to tweet: “We’ve had some racist comments about our TV ad. Online communities shouldn’t welcome these views, neither should society and we definitely don’t welcome shoppers who think it’s ok to post racist tweets.”

The Co-op’s CEO, Steve Murrells, said: “We won’t stand by when we see racism happening and we’ll speak out and act against it. I am crystal clear that we must be anti-racist in everything that we do and we’ll work to eliminate individual, institutional and systemic racial inequalities that currently exist. We are proud to stand in solidarity with our peers.”

Verica Djurdjevic, the chief revenue officer at Channel 4, said: “As an anti-racist organisation, we are incredibly proud to stand together with Sainsbury’s and our retail partners against racism, using our national platform to call out the unacceptable reaction to Sainsbury’s Christmas advert.”





No.6 article:




No.7 article:
Thousands take to streets across country in opposition to controversial draft bill

French security forces have fired teargas at protesters marching against police violence in Paris after masked activists launched fireworks at their lines, put up barricades and threw stones.

Thousands of people across France gathered in support of press freedom after film of police beating a black music producer fanned anger about a draft law that is seen as curbing the right of journalists to report on police brutality.

Jean Castex, the prime minister, has announced that an independent commission will examine and rewrite the controversial article 24.

This week footage emerged showing police beating the black music producer in Paris, the latest in a series of acts of alleged police violence to rock the country.

Emmanuel Macron said a video of officers beating Michel Zecler in his studio was “shameful” and added the government would have to find a way to restore public confidence in the police force.

Three officers have been suspended and an official inquiry has been opened.

In Paris, protesters set street furniture on fire and clashed with police as they tried to block access to some streets.

In Lille, Rennes, Strasbourg and other cities thousands more protested against the draft bill, which would criminalise the publication of images of police officers under certain circumstances.

Many carried placards with slogans such as: “Who will protect us from the police?”, “Stop police violence” and “Democracy bludgeoned.”

The journalists’ organisations and civil liberty groups that organised the marches were joined by extreme-left militants, environmental activists and yellow vest protesters who have been protesting against government policies for two years.

Several “black block” groups, who fought with police and smashed shop windows during the yellow vest protests, also took part.





No.8 article:
Pope installs new cardinals, including first African American

Wilton Gregory, the 72-year-old archbishop of Washington DC becomes the first African American cardinal at a time the United States is examining race relations after a spate of police killings of unarmed black people.

He was the only American among those elevated to the College of Cardinals during Saturday’s ceremony. Brunei and Rwanda got their first cardinals.

Gregory, already the highest-ranking African American Catholic in US history, made headlines in June when he blasted Donald Trump after police and soldiers used teargas and rubber bullets to clear protesters so the president could be photographed in front of a historic Washington church holding a Bible.

Gregory said he found it “baffling and reprehensible that any Catholic facility would allow itself to be so egregiously misused and manipulated”.

Catholic conservatives condemned Gregory and sided with Trump.

Gregory said last week he wanted to find common ground with President-elect Joe Biden despite disagreements on issues such as abortion.

He said he wanted to work with the incoming US administration to look for “where we can find things that we can do together for the betterment of the American community, for the people of the archdiocese in general. I want to be one who engages people in conversation.”

The ceremony, known as a consistory, was markedly slimmed down because of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Instead of the usual thousands, only 10 guests per cardinal were allowed in St Peter’s Basilica as the pope gave the men their ring and traditional red hat, known as a biretta.

Nine of the 13 are under 80 years old, and eligible under church law to enter a secret conclave to choose the next pope from among themselves after Francis dies or resigns.

It was Francis’s seventh consistory since his election in 2013. He has now appointed 57% of the 128 cardinal electors, most of whom share his vision of a more inclusive and outward-looking church.

Thus far, he has appointed 18 cardinals from countries that never had one, nearly all of them from the developing world.

While Europe still has the largest share of cardinal electors, with 41%, it is down from 52% in 2013 when Francis became the first Latin American pope.

With each consistory, Francis has increased the chances that his successor will be another non-European, having beefed up the church in places where it is either a tiny minority or where it is growing faster than in the stagnant west.

The nine new electors come from Italy, Malta, Rwanda, the United States, the Philippines, Chile, Brunei and Mexico.

In his homily, Francis told the men to keep their eyes on God, avoid all forms of corruption, and not succumb to a “worldly spirit” that can accompany the prestige and power of their new rank.

Everyone in the basilica except the pope wore a mask. Each new cardinal removed theirs when they knelt before him to be invested.

Gregory was one of a handful of new cardinals who were quarantined for about 10 days in their rooms in the Vatican guest house where the pope also lives. Cardinals from Brunei and the Philippines could not travel and will receive their ring and hat from a papal delegate.

Four non-electors over 80 were given the honour after long service to the church. The most prominent is Archbishop Silvano Tomasi, an Italian American who has worked around the world and is one of the church’s top experts on immigration. 





No.9 article:
Ayatollah threatens retaliation after president blames Israel for assassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh

Iran’s supreme leader has called for the “definitive punishment” of those behind the killing of one of the country’s most senior scientists, who was identified by Israel as having headed a secret nuclear weapons programme.

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, the architect of Tehran’s nuclear strategy, was killed on Friday on a highway near the capital in a carefully planned assassination that has led to a serious escalation of tensions in the Middle East.

Iran accused its arch-enemy, Israel, of carrying out the attack. Expecting retaliation, Israel put its global embassies on high alert on Saturday, Hebrew-language media reported.

In a statement, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Fakhrizadeh “the country’s prominent and distinguished nuclear and defensive scientist”.

Iran’s immediate priority, he said, was the “definitive punishment of the perpetrators and those who ordered it”. He did not elaborate.

Speaking during a meeting of his government’s coronavirus taskforce, the Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani, blamed Israel and reiterated that Fakhrizadeh’s death would not stop the country’s nuclear programme, which it claims is non-military and focused on energy.

During the past decade, Iran has accused Israel of killing at least five of its nuclear scientists, although Fakhrizadeh is considered the most senior and high-profile.

“We will respond to the assassination of Martyr Fakhrizadeh in a proper time,” Rouhani said, suggesting it could be days or weeks before a retaliation. 

Iran later told the UN in a letter there were “serious indications of Israeli responsibility” and that it reserved the right to “take all necessary measures to defend its people”.

During past spikes in hostility, Iran’s proxy in Lebanon, Hezbollah, has carried out attacks on Israeli targets.

An Israeli military spokesperson said it would not “comment on reports in the foreign media,” while the country’s prime minister’s office also remained silent.

Donald Trump, who had Iran’s most powerful general killed in a drone strike earlier this year, has not spoken about Friday’s attack. However, in a possible hint of his support, the outgoing US president retweeted an Israeli journalist who described the killing as a “major psychological and professional blow for Iran”.

Concerns have mounted in the Middle East that Israel might use the final weeks of the Trump administration to take action. The US president is generally seen in Israel as more permissive of its ambitions, both political and military, than the president-elect, Joe Biden.

To Israel’s dismay, Biden has said he is willing to rejoin the Iran nuclear deal abandoned by Trump and lift some economic sanctions if Iran comes back into compliance with the agreement. Israel and regional powerhouse Saudi Arabia want the US to remain outside the deal.

Trita Parsi, the executive vice-president of the Washington-based Quincy Institute thinktank, said Israel was a “prime suspect”, and suggested the country carried out the killing to damage any attempt by Biden to rebuild the US’s relationship with Iran.

“The main impact of attacks of this kind will not be to set back Iran’s programme but to render diplomacy for Biden more difficult,” he said, adding that Israel’s leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, has long sought to drag Washington into a confrontation.

Without suggesting who carried out the killing, Amos Yadlin, a former head of Israeli Defence Force intelligence, said: “With the window of time left for Trump, such a move could lead Iran to a violent response, which would provide a pretext for a US-led attack on Iranian nuclear facilities.”

John Brennan, a former head of the CIA under Barack Obama, called the assassination “a criminal act and highly reckless”. “Iranian leaders would be wise to wait for the return of responsible American leadership on the global stage and to resist the urge to respond against perceived culprits,” he tweeted.

The spokesperson for Josep Borrell, the EU’s foreign policy chief, described the attack as a “criminal act” and called for “all parties to remain calm and exercise maximum restraint”.

Fakhrizadeh was ambushed with explosives and gun fire in the town of Absard, 70km (44 miles) east of Tehran. Efforts to resuscitate him in hospital failed. His bodyguard and family members were also wounded.

The scientist had been described by western and Israeli intelligence services for years as the leader of a covert atomic bomb programme halted in 2003. He was a central figure in a presentation by Israel’s Netanyahu, in 2018 accusing Iran of continuing to seek nuclear weapons. “Remember that name, Fakhrizadeh,” Netanyahu said during the presentation.

Netanyahu accused Iran at the time of hiding and expanding its nuclear weapons knowhow, saying that Israeli intelligence had obtained a half-tonne cache of nuclear archive materials from the country. Iran has always denied it has any interest in developing nuclear weapons.

During the final months of Trump’s presidency, Israel has been making peace with Gulf Arab states that share its hostility towards Iran. This month, Netanyahu travelled to Saudi Arabia and met its crown prince, according to Israeli officials, in the first reported visit by an Israeli leader.

Agencies contributed to this report





No.10 article:
Voters set to punish mayor who ‘made Rio de Janeiro miserable’

A landslide in Sunday’s election is predicted to sweep away the city’s ‘disastrous’ conservative leader

Tarcísio Motta is one of Rio’s best-known lefties – but when the city elects its new leader on Sunday, he’ll be voting for the right.

“We’ve got a mayor who’s an enemy of the city, and this can’t go on. It’s ludicrous,” complained the socialist councillor, one of millions of exasperated locals desperate to evict the neo-Pentecostal bishop Marcelo Crivella from city hall after what is widely regarded as a dismal four-year reign.

To deny Crivella a second term, leftwing critics such as Motta have one choice: holding their noses and backing his only challenger, the centre-right ex-mayor Eduardo Paes.

“I’ll vote for Eduardo Paes – and I’ll oppose him from day one,” Motta vowed, claiming Crivella’s “authoritarian, fundamentalist, anti-Rio project” had to be stopped. “The city doesn’t deserve this government,” he said. “Our vote is to veto Crivella.”

Crivella won power in 2016, one of the opening acts of a Bible-bashing conservative backlash against Brazil’s left that saw the far-right populist Jair Bolsonaro claim the presidency two years later.

“I’m certain we’re going to build the Rio de Janeiro of our dreams,” Crivella, a gospel singer whose uncle founded the controversial Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, declared in a victory speech peppered with references to God.

Critics say that Crivella’s rule has proved a nightmare, with Brazil’s “marvellous city” experiencing a succession of economic, social and public health crises which they claim he has failed to address.

Rio’s misery culminated in this year’s coronavirus outbreak which has killed more than 13,000 people, making it one of the worst-hit cities in one of the worst-hit countries (171,000 dead) in the world. 

“He’s a disaster,” said Álvaro Costa e Silva, a celebrated chronicler of 21st-century Rio, and one of Crivella’s most piercing critics. The columnist said he was compiling a list of the least-loved administrators in Rio’s 455-year history and found few on Crivella’s level – not even Estácio de Sá, the Portuguese soldier who founded the city in 1565 and “probably wasn’t very popular because he died after an indigenous person shot him with an arrow”.

“I think Crivella will be remembered as a mayor to be forgotten – a mayor voters got rid of so he could be forgotten and never come back,” Costa e Silva said of a politician so unpopular that some detractors call him Rio’s “Calamity”.

High on the list of Crivella’s perceived sins are accusations that he governed for his church’s congregations, not all citizens, and tried to lead the culturally vibrant city down a conservative and intolerant path. He cut funding for Rio’s film festival and LGBT pride parade and sparked protests by trying to ban a graphic novel from a book fair because it featured a cartoon of two kissing men. He faced further anger during this year’s Covid-19 epidemic after installing a publicly funded MRI scanner on the grounds of a Universal Church temple in one Rio favela.

But Crivella’s indifference towards one of Rio’s most cherished cultural institutions, its annual carnival, caused particular indignation, with many sambistas accusing him of waging a puritanical campaign against festivities his church considered an ungodly depravity. “He’s perhaps the first mayor not to attend the carnival parades,” Costa e Silva said, noting how Crivella once skipped town altogether during the celebrations.

Paes, Rio’s mayor from 2009 to 2016, this week alleged Crivella was “on a crusade against carnival” and acknowledged many were only backing him because they loathed Crivella.

Motta, the socialist councillor, said Rio’s woes under Crivella went beyond culture wars. “The transport system doesn’t work. The schools are falling to pieces. Health care has gotten worse … and he hasn’t managed to improve things,” he claimed.

“Rio has become a much sadder place in these last four years,” he added. “Having a city hall that seems not to like the city, who tries to alter the city’s very essence, and doesn’t respect Rio’s diversity, has made things so much gloomier.”

Polls suggest that voters agree, with Crivella – who blames his failures on the corruption of previous governments – apparently heading for a landslide defeat.

Motta said he hoped Crivella’s demise would kickstart a new, progressive phase in the history of Rio, and perhaps even Brazil. A series of electoral setbacks to Jair Bolsonaro’s rightwing project have given leftists hope the political tide may be turning. Support for the former army captain remains strong in rural areas and among older voters but has slipped in many of the country’s biggest cities.

“Many people want genuine change and have realised the 2018 vote for [Bolsonaro’s] authoritarianism and hatred has not brought the change these pushers of hate promised,” Motta claimed.

Costa e Silva said he felt relief Rio would soon be free of Crivella’s diabolical grip but warned his city was not out of the woods yet. The new mayor would face a crippling post-pandemic economic crisis and the growing threat of armed paramilitary gangs that now control more than half the city. “I don’t know if this is a new era – but I’m certain a new era will only be possible without Crivella,” he said. “He represents the past, the shadows – it’s impossible for him to represent anything that is new.”





No.11 article:
Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, the architect of Tehran’s nuclear strategy, was&nbsp;killed on Friday&nbsp;on a highway near the capital in a carefully planned assassination that has led to a serious escalation of tensions in the Middle East.





No.12 article:
Shops reopen in France as national lockdown eases

Retailers and hairdressers admit limited number of customers for first time since October

Queues formed outside hairdressers’ shops and department stores sold gifts and Christmas decorations on Saturday as France partially reopened after a month-long lockdown.

Shops selling non-essential goods, such as shoes, clothes and toys, reopened in the first easing of national restrictions since 30 October. Bars and restaurants remain closed until 20 January.

Remi Thor, a barber in central Paris, said: “Today we have people who had been waiting for weeks, while others are coming now so they can look good for Christmas, as one never knows what happens next.”

A barber at J-Coiffeur in western Paris said despite his online reservation system, people were showing up without booking and were queuing up outside. “Under current rules, they cannot wait inside,” he said.

Printemps – which has 19 luxury department stores with a combined floorspace of 180,000 sq metres – has been tracking footfall closely.

Pierre Pelarrey, the director of Printemps’ flagship Paris Boulevard Haussmann store, said: “We calculate the traffic in real time to make sure we respect the limit on the number inside,” he said.

As a condition for reopening, the government reduced the number of people allowed in shops. Many small business owners complained it was hard to operate under the new rules and said traffic was slow as clients were postponing their shopping until Black Friday, which has been delayed by a week to 4 December in France.

The deputy mayor of Paris, Emmanuel Gregoire, told local radio that the mayor, Anne Hidalgo, would hold talks with retail organisations about allowing them to open on Sundays to catch up on lost sales.

“2020 will be a catastrophic year for everyone, but in order to limit the damage, December will be crucial,” he said.

The government has allowed shops to open until 9pm so they can receive more customers despite the capacity limits.

At the Pasteur hospital in Nice, where the intensive care unit is running at twice its normal bed capacity due to Covid-19 patients, the ICU head, Carole Ichai, said she hoped people would be responsible.

“I hope we will not regret this opening. Shopowners are making an effort, now everyone needs to take their civil responsibility seriously,” she said.





No.13 article:
Elbow bumps and open windows: UK scientific advisers&#x27; Christmas tips

Temporary easing of Covid rules will allow families to gather in three-household groups

With Christmas less than a month away, the government’s scientific advisers have issued a list of recommendations for families mixing during the break after a five-day period of relaxed rules was announced earlier this week.

The festive easing of restrictions will allow families across the UK to gather in three-household groups of any size between 23 and 27 December. People heading to and from Northern Ireland will be granted an extra day on either side of the Christmas window.

In response to the government giving the green light for a more normal holiday, scientific advisers have suggested a series of tips for a less risky celebration, ranging from the toughest approach – virtual turkey carvings and posting presents – to less stringent tweaks, such as avoiding singalongs.

The safest route is undeniably not meeting in person, and either postponing the celebration or holding it virtually instead. For those opposed to the idea of having their Christmas dinner over video conference, Sage suggests heading outdoors, whether for a walk or a socially distanced drink. Although the wintry temperatures may pose a challenge, the virus is far less likely to be transmitted in an outdoor setting and it is recommended that children avoid meeting elderly relatives indoors.

Although the government has allowed five days for Christmas bubbles to mix indoors, Sage’s guidance suggests people mitigate the risks by limiting the length of time they spend with loved ones outside their household. The recommendations state that indoor interactions “should be restricted as much as possible and reserved for short duration quality time”. Overnight stays should be limited where possible, and if not, people from different households should avoid sharing rooms.

Similarly, although the government has said up to three households of any size can mix, the scientists urge people to reconsider how many visitors they include in their bubble.

Alongside avoiding hosting a large number of visitors, people are advised to gather “in the largest space that is feasible”. Sage recommends furniture is spaced out where possible, with different households sitting a distance apart and seating members of the same household opposite each other. Where distancing is not possible, consider wearing face masks to avoid droplet transmission.

Hugs and kisses should be avoided, with “elbow bumps” being Sage’s preferred method of greeting. Physical contact should at least be limited, with experts asking people to face away and wash their hands afterwards. Avoiding physical contact with vulnerable loved ones is particularly important: earlier this week, England’s chief medical officer, Prof Chris Whitty, said people should not hug or kiss elderly relatives “if you want them to survive to be hugged again”.

People should keep hand sanitiser at the ready, with hand washing particularly important (as ever) before eating or preparing a meal. Disinfectant wipes or sanitisers should also be provided at gatherings, as well as bins to throw away any used tissues.

For those not braving December weather for a fully outdoor celebration, it is recommended that homes are kept well ventilated: the virus is far less likely to spread in an airy space. Sage suggests opening windows for between 10 and 15 minutes every hour, while extractor fans in kitchens and bathrooms can also help. In the case of sleepovers, bedroom doors should be shut and the window left ajar if possible to limit airflow between the rooms.

People are asked to avoid games that involve touching a lot of shared objects and sitting closely together, suggesting quiz-based games as one option for families ditching the Monopoly board this year. Christmas singalongs are another high-risk activity that should be given a miss – especially in spaces with poor ventilation – while dancing can be dangerous because of higher breathing rates.





No.14 article:
Risking family health over Christmas is &#x27;individual judgment&#x27;, says professor

Neil Ferguson says relaxing coronavirus restrictions for five days will increase transmission 

The scientist whose modelling led to the first UK lockdown has said the decision over whether to see elderly relatives over Christmas comes down to “individual judgment”, but that the relaxed measures during the five-day window will inevitably increase coronavirus transmission.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Prof Neil Ferguson said that while indoor mixing would “increase transmission compared with everyone staying at home, not mixing at all”, the decision to relax rules was part of striking a balance around compliance.

Referring to the hypothetical option of a Christmas break during which no household mixing was allowed, the expert said: “What proportion of the population would actually go along with it?

“I think you have to bring the population with you. I think the measures at Christmas … do pose some risks and I think individual judgment is important in deciding whether to see elderly relatives.”

Overall, he said, the bubble system should limit the extent of transmission if people adhered to the rules.

The scientist’s message echoes Boris Johnson’s statement to the public earlier this week, when the prime minister told families they must make a “personal judgment” about the risks to vulnerable loved ones when meeting over Christmas.

Ferguson has previously described the decision to allow an easing of restrictions at Christmas as a “political judgment”, saying that “there will be consequences … some people will die because of getting infected on that day”.

The government’s scientific advisers said the relaxing of measures between 23 and 27 December would increase infections “potentially by a large amount”, and that the prevalence of the virus could easily double in just a few days.

The Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies has suggested that people mitigate the risks of transmission by celebrating in a different way this year.

While the rules will allow three households to mix indoors without social distancing for five days, Sage’s guidance for limiting the chance of infection proposes variations within the restrictions that will make for a safer celebration.

Tips include celebrating outdoors, as the aerosol transmission risk is very low outside, and forgoing an in-person Christmas altogether, with a virtual celebration being the obviously safest route. Posting gifts, rather than delivering them in person, is also suggested.

In the case of indoor, in-person mixing, Sage encourages people to use hand sanitiser and space out seating to follow social distancing guidance, as well as opening windows to allow ventilation. The group also urges people to limit the number of guests, and the length of visitors’ stays.

Experts say sharing food and drink with other households is risky, and suggested tweaking the entertainment on offer to make it safer: close contact activities, like board games, should be avoided, with quizzes offered as a lower-risk alternative.





No.15 article:
Senior minister urges MPs to take responsibility for hard decisions amid Tory rebellion

Every hospital in England risks being overwhelmed by coronavirus cases if the new, tougher tier system is not introduced, Michael Gove has said as the government faces a potentially 70-strong rebellion from within its ranks.

Writing in the Times on Saturday, the Cabinet Office minister urged MPs to “take responsibility for difficult decisions” to stop the spread of the virus. Backbenchers have expressed anger at 99% of England being put in the top two tiers when lockdown ends on 2 December.

Gove said the decision to impose a second lockdown in England was not taken lightly, underlining that if action had not been taken a month ago the coronavirus crisis would have “broken” the NHS, with hospitals “physically overwhelmed … every bed, every ward occupied”. It would have left staff unable to treat emergency cases, including heart attacks and serious accidents, he wrote.

Making the case for the post-lockdown enhanced tier system before Tuesday’s vote in the Commons, he said “we cannot unlearn the difficult lesson” that the previous restrictions were not tough enough. Infection levels remained uncomfortably and threateningly high, he said, with around 16,000 coronavirus patients in hospital across the UK, compared with April’s peak of nearly 20,000. He said any sharp rise could lead to the NHS being under serious threat again.

The new measures will mean that those in tiers 2 and 3 face a ban on indoor households mixing and a hit to the hospitality industry. Only the the Isle of Wight, Cornwall, and the Isles of Scilly will be in the most relaxed tier 1 band.

Areas in the Midlands, north-east and north-west England will once more face the toughest tier 3 measures before Christmas, and there are reports that the rules could be in place until Easter.

Senior sources reportedly told Sky News that scientific advisers have said that even if coronavirus vaccinations begin in earnest by the end of January, things will not begin to return to normal until April.

A source close to the matter told the broadcaster: “This has been the running assumption. If you think that vaccines will start going in arms in large numbers at the end of January, it will be Easter by the time life changes properly, and there would be restrictions until then.

“The government has also been very clear that the restrictions will go to January and beyond.”

Chris Hopson, the chief executive of NHS Providers, echoed Gove’s message on Saturday, calling on the government to “take precautions now” to avoid chaos in hospitals in January, which is “always the NHS’s busiest time of year”.

Appearing on BBC Breakfast, Hopson said there were high numbers of emergencies at the beginning of every year, with people slipping on ice and breaking bones, and this, combined with high numbers of coronavirus infections, could be disastrous for the NHS.

“So what we’d say to MPs is, just think forward, think what it might be like in January, and you need to take the precautions now to ensure that the NHS doesn’t get overwhelmed at what is always its busiest time of year,” he said.

Many MPs have questioned the new system’s effectiveness and asked to see a detailed analysis weighing up the costs and benefits of the tiers.

Iain Duncan Smith, the Conservative MP for Chingford and Woodford Green, wrote on Twitter: “What was the point of the lockdown if, as we come out, we end up with tighter restrictions than before lockdown? We aren’t even waiting to learn what the effect of the lockdown has been before rushing into these changes.

“MP’s have called for a full cost/benefit analysis to be published, to show what evidence for stricter rules and the effect of these decision will be on lives and livelihoods in every constituency. The government must come clean and do this now or lose not just many of their MPs but the public as well.”





No.16 article:
&#x27;Place of love&#x27;: Gibraltar becomes marriage hotspot in pandemic

Couples flock to tiny British territory, which requires minimum bureaucracy to tie knot

Gibraltar was never on Bruno Miani’s list of places to visit. –But that all changed when the pandemic upended his plans to marry his girlfriend in Dublin, where they live.

With government offices closed due to coronavirus restrictions, the 40-year-old photographer and his partner, Natalia Senna Alves de Lima, struggled to get the documents they needed for a wedding licence and faced a long wait for an available time slot for the ceremony.

So the Brazilian couple travelled to Gibraltar, a tiny British territory at the southernmost tip of Spain, where they tied the knot at the local registry office.

“The fastest way to get married now is to go to Gibraltar,” said Miani. “We love each other a lot. We already live together as a married couple. This makes it official.”

Gibraltar requires minimum bureaucracy to get married and there are fewer border restrictions than other places, which has helped turn it into a wedding hotspot during the pandemic.

Couples just need to present their passports and birth certificates, and stay in the territory overnight either before or after their wedding. They then need to have their marriage registered by the authorities in their home country.

Wedding planners have reported huge demand from couples from outside the territory.

“It is absolutely insane. We just can’t get enough slots and spaces,” said Leanne Hindle, the director of wedding events company Marry Abroad Simply.

Many weddings held in Gibraltar involve couples of different nationalities in long-distance relationships who could not travel to each other’s countries to get married because of virus travel restrictions.

Often there is a pressing need to wed, such as the case of a couple whose insurance would not cover the expensive fertility treatment they needed to have a child unless they were married, said Hindle.

A common scenario involves a person being offered a job in another country and only being allowed to bring their partner with them if they are legally married, she added.

Scott Gerow, 41, a US national, married a 44-year-old Russian human resources manager at Gibraltar’s picturesque botanical gardens earlier this month.

The couple met in January in St Petersburg, where Gerow was working at the time, but after he had to return to the US in June, they were kept apart by virus travel bans.

As a married couple, she will now be able to join him in the US.

If the option of getting married in Gibraltar did not exist “we would still be video-chatting every day”, Gerow said.

Gibraltar is also drawing many couples from neighbouring Spanish regions because its rules on the use of face masks in public and the size of social gatherings are less strict, said Resham Mahtani, a wedding planner at Rock Occasions.

The territory has dealt with the surge in demand by increasing the number of weddings carried out daily at its tiny registrar’s office and expanding the number of outdoor venues where ceremonies can be held.

Gibraltar’s chief minister, Fabian Picardo, said he was “delighted that Gibraltar has become known as a place of love rather than a place of division”.





No.17 article:
Is it worth carrying on as a guinea pig, if a vaccine has already been found?

I am 75 and taking part in the Novavax trial but the success of the Oxford jab has given me a dilemma

My third appointment with researchers this week, as a participant in Covid-19 vaccine trials, was overshadowed by the news that the Oxford vaccine will probably be available to older folk like me in the early part of next year – maybe as early as January or February.

The vaccine I am trialling – the Novavax one – will have test results in January, and probably be available in the summer. So what happens to us guinea pigs when the Oxford vaccine is available, I wanted to know. As a reasonably healthy 75-year-old, I’m likely to be – in the doctor’s words – “at the back of the front of the queue” for it. I have signed up to be in the Novavax study for a year. But if I have the Oxford vaccine, do I cease to be any use?

The charming young doctor smiled broadly and said “that’s a really good question” for all the world as though everyone he saw had not asked the same question. The answer is that as soon as I’m offered a vaccine, they will “unblind” me – that is, tell me whether I am one of the 50% of guinea pigs who got the trial vaccine, or whether I got the placebo instead.

If I got the placebo, I should take the Oxford vaccine, and I will be no further use to them. That’s not how he put it – he talked about how useful I had already been – but it’s what he meant.

If I got the trial vaccine, then if in January it’s shown to work, I can turn down my place in the Oxford vaccine queue – or take it, if I wish. If I turn it down, will I still be any use in the study? The answer, it turns out, is a very definite maybe. The problem is that once I know I have the vaccine in my body, it will affect my behaviour, and that will skew the results.

I realised he was right. I had just travelled two stops on the underground to get to the Royal Free hospital in Hampstead, obsessively seeking out a lonely corner in the end carriage. Would I have taken that trouble if I knew I had been vaccinated?

I may still be some small use. They have yet to decide whether data from “unblinded” guinea pigs may still help in some way. But the inevitable wastage of participants that will occur when a vaccine is available does not help the researchers.

The doctor asked the usual questions about my health, and passed me on to an equally charming nurse. You know a nurse is about to take your blood when he asks with elaborate casualness whether you have any interesting plans for the rest of the day. Well, I said, I have my U3A French conversation group, now meeting on Zoom. “Vraiment? Vous parlez couramment?” he said, and I never noticed the needle going in. It turns out he did French A-level.

I’ll be back at the end of January, but for me, selfishly, the urgency will go out of it when the Oxford vaccine is available. At 75, there’s a voice that won’t be stilled, asking how long you will have this blessed good health, tremulously fearful that the moment you are free to do all the fun things you are planning, your health will give way. The vaccine will have ridden to the rescue too late.

I was going to have a great year in 2020. Apart from a fair bit of travelling, my play about Clement Attlee was to have its third outing at Upstairs at the Gatehouse in Highgate in April. We put it off until November, and now we have put it off until the first week in February. Please let us perform it then.

I want my life back while I can enjoy it. So is it worth carrying on researching, if a vaccine has already been found? They say it is. There will be different vaccines, good for different purposes. And they may get cheaper. I would like to think this means they will provide it at cut rates to poorer countries, but that’s not how pharmaceutical companies work. If anyone is going to subsidise poor countries, it will have to be rich countries.

So they are still recruiting. The Novavax study has almost reached its target of 15,000 guinea pigs in the UK, and has achieved the target of having a quarter of them over 65. Other studies still need more people. Some researchers are worried about diversity among the volunteers. “We have a responsibility to ensure that our participants reflect the community we serve,” says Dr Fiona Burns, lead investigator at the Royal Free.

I’ll be back in two months as promised, though I don’t know how long after that. But for now, I took my leave. “À bientôt,” said the nurse. “À la prochaine,” said I.

• Francis Beckett is a journalist, playwright and author of several books, including biographies of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.





No.18 article:
Carrie Lam says she is paid in cash and calls US sanctions imposed over security crackdown ‘unjustifiable’

Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam has said she keeps “piles of cash” at home because she has no bank account after the United States imposed sanctions on her in response to the crackdown on free speech and political freedoms in the city.

Lam was targeted, along with 14 other senior city officials, in the toughest US action on Hong Kong yet since Beijing imposed the new law on the territory in late June.

The move by Washington freezes the US assets of the officials and criminalises any financial transactions in the US.

In an interview with local English TV channel HKIBC aired on Friday night, Lam said she was “using cash every day for all the things” after being sanctioned.

“Sitting in front of you is a chief executive of the Hong Kong SAR [Special Administrative Region] who has no banking services made available to her. I’m using cash for all the things,” Lam told HKIBC. “I have piles of cash at home, the government is paying me cash for my salary because I don’t have a bank account.”

But Lam said she was keen to avoid deterring anyone from serving in public office, adding: “To be so unjustifiably sanctioned by the US government, it’s an honour.”

Lam earns HK$5.21m (US$672,000) a year, and is one of the highest paid leaders in the world.

Her remarks sparked a public backlash, with social media users posting photos of coins in their piggy banks at home to contrast with Lam’s wealth.

Others questioned how her large salary would be transported to her residence in cash.

In August, Lam had told media that she faced “a little bit of inconvenience” as a result of the sanctions which hampered her use of credit cards.





No.19 article:
Encrypted apps and false names: new Taiwan book club takes no chances

Amid Beijing’s crackdown on Hong Kong, publisher says joining clubs to discuss free speech and democracy has again become an act of resistance 

In the early 1950s in Taiwan, 19-year-old Tsai Kun-lin was arrested and jailed after joining a book club. The young man spent more than a decade on Green Island, building the prison that held him as a political enemy of the authoritarian rulers who would hold Taiwan under martial law until 1987.

Decades later, a 90-year-old Tsai is living in Taiwan’s thriving democracy, but says a book club has once again become an act of resistance.

This month the publisher and activist, alongside exiled Hong Kong bookseller Lam Wing-kee, will address the Katthveli book club, exploring political activism, free speech and democracy in Hong Kong and Taiwan, two places under extraordinary threat from an increasingly belligerent People’s Republic of China.

Tsai tells the Guardian he agreed to join Katthveli because “once there were such people in Taiwan who risked their lives to read books and pursue the truth”.

“Especially when Hong Kong is facing persecution from China, and Taiwan is threatened by China. It’s important to advise young people what kinds of books they should read.”

Participants from around the world can join via Jitsi, an encrypted communication app that requires no sign-in. Users are sent a link and advised to use false names if they have personal safety concerns, says festival curator Aephie Chen.

The measure for the online club, an initiative of the Taiwan UK Film Festival, were deemed necessary given the topics and the expectation it would be probably be monitored by Chinese authorities. In Hong Kong, to discuss topics such as independence and activism is possibly illegal now, and the security measures reflect the growing threat to those who advocate democracy.

In the past 18 months Hong Kong has changed dramatically, wracked by pro-democracy protests and a resulting crackdown by Beijing with a national security law (NSL) that has in effect outlawed dissent. The crackdown had the support of the Hong Kong government, and since then more than 10,000 people, mostly young, have been arrested, with dozens held under the NSL. At least 2,300 have been prosecuted for a variety of protest-related charges. Advocating for independence or protesting against the government is now largely illegal, and sensitive books have been removed from shelves.

Taiwan has become a refuge for a small but growing number of Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters, with president Tsai Ing-wen promising “necessary assistance” to the people there earlier this year.

Beijing insists it will “unify” with Taiwan, which it considers a rogue province of China, though Taiwan’s government is resisting. “Taiwan lived through the White Terror before it came to this peaceful new era today,” says Tsai. “However, since 1997 Hong Kong’s return to Chinese sovereignty, I am more pessimistic [about Hong Kong].”

There are mutual lessons for the two locales as Hong Kong moves away from semi-autonomy to strict Beijing-control, while Taiwan leaves its period of martial law further and further behind.

The film festival’s curator Aephie Chen, says she sees Tsai’s persecution happening again with the youth of Hong Kong. “Every generation has to reimagine … the concept of freedom,” she said.

Chen, the daughter of an environmentalist father forced to leave Taiwan during martial law, has watched in horror at the crackdown in Hong Kong, and then sadness as she felt the world start to lose interest. She felt driven to share its story and how Taiwan could help, but said adding a Hong Kong film to the festival’s line-up wouldn’t do it justice. The book club was born to explore the history of danger in both places by giving people the time and space to read and research.

Chen invited Lam Wing-kee to speak to the club. The 64-year-old Hong Kong bookseller was abducted and detained by Chinese authorities in 2015 for selling banned books on the mainland, and has lived in Taiwan in self-imposed exile since last year. Lam told the Guardian it was important “to delve deep in these clubs to get to know the whole context of the problem, not just the surface”.

He chose seven books for discussion including titles on the history of the Chinese government, the Jewish diaspora, and the cultural influence of the Chinese Communist party in Taiwan.

“It’s important to understand the history and culture of all of it so you will understand why China is China today,” he said.

The book club will launch on 1 December with an interview with Lam. Tsai will speak on 12 December. The Taiwan UK Film Festival runs from 28 November to 12 December, hosting socially-distanced cinema screenings and online films, live Q&amp;As, short films, live music, dance and spoken word performances.





No.20 article:
China increases coal import quotas but Australia likely to be excluded

China’s foreign ministry says Australia needs to show ‘mutual respect’

China’s foreign ministry has warned Australia to handle the bilateral relationship with “mutual respect and equality” after it imposed “devastating” tariffs of up to 212% on Australia wines.

It comes as the country increases its coal import quotas for 2020 by about 20m tonnes but is very likely to exclude Australia, which has hundreds of millions of tonnes anchored off the Chinese coast in a deepening trade dispute with Beijing.

Guardian Australia also understands China is reducing customs clearance times for Australia’s key coal export competitors, Indonesia and Russia.

On Friday, China’s ministry of commerce announced the tariffs of between 107% and 212%, in response to what it said were findings that Australian wine was being dumped in China, causing “substantial damage” to the domestic market. But on Friday the foreign ministry suggested it was related to the deepening diplomatic rift.

At a regular press conference in Beijing, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the measures aligned with Chinese law, but “at the same time, mutual respect is the basis and precondition for practical cooperation between countries”.

“It is hoped that the Australian side will do more things conducive to mutual trust and cooperation as is in line with the two sides’ comprehensive strategic partnership, so as to provide conditions to bring bilateral relations back onto the right track.”

The tariffs will double or triple the retail price of Australian wine in China, and make the market unviable for exporters, Australian trade minister Simon Birmingham said on Friday. He said the move was “unjustified, and without evidence to back it up”.

Amid deteriorating relations between China and Australia, Beijing has delivered repeated hits on Australian trade.

This week it was revealed that more than 60 bulk carriers, holding Australian coal bound for China, had been have been stranded off the Chinese coast for between four and 24 weeks, after Chinese importers were told to stop accepting Australian coal in October.

An analyst at a Chinese energy thinktank told Guardian Australia that Chinese customs officials have been informed the quotas for thermal coal will be increased for various regional energy plants, for a total of around 20m tonnes.

“It is very likely that coal from Australia will be excluded,” said the analyst, who did not want to publish her name. “In addition, Customs will shorten the customs clearance times for Indonesian and Russian coal, depending on the situation at each port.”

Indonesia, Russia and Australia are China’s biggest coal suppliers. On Wednesday Indonesia signed a US$1.46bn deal to sell more coal to China over the next three years.

According to intelligence company Kpler, at least two of the longest-waiting bulk carriers, the Dong-A Astrea and the Dong-A Eos, were allowed to dock on Thursday, but it was not clear whether this was in response to the international coverage of the backlog, or a coincidence.

Aggregate data showed the average waiting time for cargo vessels is far higher than any point in the past two years and has risen steadily since August, suggesting it had been impacted by the unofficial ban on Australia coal.

Among the 60 ships waiting for longer than four weeks, four from Indonesia have been waiting since July, and four from Russia have been waiting since August or October, according to the Kpler data. The Chinese analyst told the Guardian some ships were “willing to gamble” and wait around in the hope there would be a new quota issued before the end of the year.

During an interview with 2GB radio on Friday, Birmingham played down the shipping standoff, saying the coal market had “huge fluctuations to it” based on “the way China manages when it brings coal in and when it doesn’t”. He said Australian coal companies generally got paid when the product left Australia.

“But the fate of these ships and the crews on them is very distressing and concerning,” he said.

China’s imports of Australian coal have fluctuated in 2020 but declined overall. Imports peaked in May at 9.44m tonnes, but dropped dramatically in the past three months, from 5.17m in October to 1.79m this month.

China’s president, Xi Jinping, has pledged to have the country achieve carbon neutrality by 2026. Analysts have said the ambitious goal would require an immediate stop to the construction of new coal fired power plants, double its wind and solar installations, and the reduction of coal’s contribution to the energy mix from 57.7% to 48% within four years.

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.21 article:
Thai protesters flood street with rubber ducks in &#x27;coup prevention&#x27; drill

Thousands block major Bangkok junction in continuing protests against government and monarchy

Thousands of democracy activists blocked a major junction in Bangkok for several hours on Friday to rehearse “coup prevention” strategies in the latest round of Thailand’s anti-government protests.

The country has for months been rocked by youth-led protests demanding a new constitution, reform of the untouchable monarchy and for the prime minister, Prayut Chan-O-Cha, to resign.

Prayut, who came to power in a 2014 coup, this week played down the prospects of being overthrown or introducing martial law.

Inflatable Santa Claus figures joined the bright yellow rubber ducks that have become a symbol of the movement as some 5,000 demonstrators massed in the shadow of a motorway flyover in the north of the capital.

Natalie, a 32-year-old Bangkok office worker, said the last coup was disastrous for Thailand and warned the country shouldn’t go down that path again.

“Now is a crisis time in Bangkok and Thailand. I want new elections and to change the prime minister and for a new government to actually listen to the people,” she said.

As part of what they called “coup prevention” drills, protesters passed an armada of the pool toy ducks over their heads, to represent the military passing over the people to take the front row of Thai politics.

Another group paraded portraits of generals who had led past coups before ritually burning them. After speeches from protest leaders, the crowds dispersed around 10.30pm.

The army chief, Narongphan Jittkaewtae, has rejected coup rumours, saying the chance of another putsch was “less than zero”.

Political scientist Titipol Phakdeewanich from Ubon Ratchathani University believes another coup is unlikely at present.

“I don’t think [Prayut] will be ousted because he still has strong support from conservatives ... and big businesses,” Titipol said.

But in a country that has seen a dozen coups since it became a democracy in 1932, the current round of protests, which began in July, has fuelled rumours another could be looming.

Next week a constitutional court in Bangkok will rule on whether Prayut has broken rules by living in an army house, despite the fact the former general is no longer in the military’s top brass. Losing the case could see Prayut forced out of office.





No.22 article:
Those with conditions such as blood, bone or lung cancer put in same category on interim guidance list as over-70s

People at very high risk of contracting coronavirus due to health problems, who were made to shield during the pandemic, have been given the same priority as the over-70s to receive a Covid-19 vaccine.

People aged 18 or older deemed “clinically extremely vulnerable” are in the same priority group as those aged 70 and over, according to the provisional vaccine priority list published by Public Health England.

It means people with conditions such as blood, bone or lung cancer, chronic kidney disease and Down’s syndrome have been placed in priority group four of nine.

The updated list, which is subject to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) approving a vaccine supply, also lists the conditions that fall in priority group six for at-risk adults aged 18 to 65.

These include people diagnosed with diabetes, chronic heart disease and morbid obesity.

The interim guidance, advised by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), says the order of priority should be: older adults in care homes and care home workers; those 80 and over and health and social care workers; those 75 years and over; those 70 and over and clinically extremely vulnerable individuals, excluding pregnant women and those under 18.

All those 65 and over, adults aged 18 to 65 in an at-risk group, those aged 60 and over, those 55 and over and people aged 50 and over make up the remainder of the list.

Gemma Peters, chief executive of charity Blood Cancer UK, said: “This is extremely good news. Putting people with blood cancer at the same priority level as those aged over 70 better reflects the fact that they are especially vulnerable to the coronavirus.”

Peters added: “Any vaccine might not work as well in people with blood cancer, so vaccinating the people around them is a vital part of protecting them. We are very grateful to the government for having listened to the voices of people with blood cancer and other health conditions on this.

“It is also important to remember that this is not definitely the final priority list. No vaccines have been approved yet, and we’re waiting for confirmation that any vaccine will be safe and effective for people with blood cancer.”

The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine was the first to submit its data for review by the MHRA last week.

The health secretary, Matt Hancock, said there will be 10m doses available in the UK by the end of the year out of the 40m he has ordered.

Meanwhile, hospitals have been told to prepare for the rollout of a coronavirus jab in as little as 10 days, with NHS workers expected to be at the front of the queue, the Guardian has learned. Issues with transporting and storing the vaccine, which must be kept at low temperatures, mean it cannot easily be transported by healthcare staff such as GPs to care homes and older people’s private residences to give them the vaccine first. 







