No.1 article:
Biden Wins Presidency, Ending Four Tumultuous Years Under Trump

Joseph R. Biden Jr. achieved victory offering a message of healing and unity. He will return to Washington facing a daunting set of crises.

Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. was elected the 46th president of the United States on Saturday, promising to restore political normalcy and a spirit of national unity to confront raging health and economic crises, and making Donald J. Trump a one-term president after four years of tumult in the White House.

Mr. Biden’s victory amounted to a repudiation of Mr. Trump by millions of voters exhausted with his divisive conduct and chaotic administration, and was delivered by an unlikely alliance of women, people of color, old and young voters and a sliver of disaffected Republicans. Mr. Trump is only the third elected president since World War II to lose re-election, and the first in more than a quarter-century.

The result also provided a history-making moment for Mr. Biden’s running mate, Senator Kamala Harris of California, who will become the first woman to serve as vice president.

With his triumph, Mr. Biden, who turns 78 later this month, fulfilled his decades-long ambition in his third bid for the White House, becoming the oldest person elected president. A pillar of Washington who was first elected amid the Watergate scandal, and who prefers political consensus over combat, Mr. Biden will lead a nation and a Democratic Party that have become far more ideological since his arrival in the capital in 1973.

He offered a mainstream Democratic agenda, yet it was less his policy platform than his biography to which many voters gravitated. Seeking the nation’s highest office a half-century after his first campaign, Mr. Biden — a candidate in the late autumn of his career — presented his life of setback and recovery to voters as a parable for a wounded country.

Appearing Saturday night before supporters at a drive-in rally in Wilmington, Del., and speaking against the din of enthusiastic honking, Mr. Biden claimed the presidency and called on the country to reunite after what he described as a toxic political interlude.

“Let this grim era of demonization in America begin to end here and now,” he said. 

Without addressing Mr. Trump, the president-elect spoke directly to the president’s supporters and said he recognized their disappointment. “I’ve lost a couple of times myself,” he recalled of his past failures to win the presidency, before adding: “Now let’s give each other a chance.” 

In a statement earlier in the day, Mr. Trump insisted “this election is far from over” and vowed that his campaign would “start prosecuting our case in court” but offered no details.

Mr. Biden’s victory, which came 48 years to the day after he was first elected to the United States Senate, set off jubilant celebrations in Democratic-leaning cities. In Washington, people streamed into the streets near the White House and cheered as cars bearing American flags drove by honking.

The race, which concluded after four tense days of vote-counting in a handful of battlegrounds, was a singular referendum on Mr. Trump in a way no president’s re-election has been in modern times. He coveted the attention, and voters who either adored him or loathed him were eager to render judgment on his tenure. From the beginning to the end of the race, Mr. Biden made the president’s character central to his campaign.

This unrelenting focus propelled Mr. Biden to victory in historically Democratic strongholds in the industrial Midwest with Mr. Biden forging a coalition of suburbanites and big-city residents to claim at least three states his party lost in 2016. With ballots still being counted in several states, Mr. Biden was leading Mr. Trump in the popular vote by more than four million votes.

Yet even as they turned Mr. Trump out of office, voters sent a more uncertain message about the left-of-center platform Mr. Biden ran on as Democrats lost seats in the House and made only modest gains in the Senate. The divided judgment — a rare example of ticket splitting in partisan times — demonstrated that, for many voters, their disdain for the president was as personal as it was political.

Even in defeat, though, Mr. Trump demonstrated his enduring appeal to many white voters and his intense popularity in rural areas, underscoring the deep national divisions that Mr. Biden has vowed to heal.

In his address Saturday, Mr. Biden saluted Black voters, recalling how they revived his campaign at “its lowest ebb,” back in February, and vowed to honor their loyalty. He said the voters had made clear they wanted both parties “to cooperate in their interest” and said he’d reach out to Republicans and Democrats alike.

The outcome of the race came into focus slowly as states and municipalities grappled with the legal and logistical challenges of voting in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. With an enormous backlog of early and mail-in votes, some states reported their totals in a halting fashion that in the early hours of Wednesday painted a misleadingly rosy picture for Mr. Trump.

But as the big cities of the Midwest and West began to report their totals, the advantage in the race shifted the electoral map in Mr. Biden’s favor. By Wednesday afternoon, the former vice president had rebuilt much of the so-called blue wall in the Midwest, reclaiming the historically Democratic battlegrounds of Wisconsin and Michigan that Mr. Trump carried four years ago. And on Saturday, with troves of ballots coming in from Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, he took back Pennsylvania as well.

While Mr. Biden stopped short of claiming victory as the week unfolded, he appeared several times in his home state, Delaware, to express confidence that he could win, while urging patience as the nation awaited the results. Even as he sought to claim something of an electoral mandate, noting that he had earned more in the popular vote than any other candidate in history, Mr. Biden struck a tone of reconciliation.

It would soon be time, he said, “to unite, to heal, to come together as a nation.”

In the days after the election, Mr. Biden and his party faced a barrage of attacks from Mr. Trump. The president falsely claimed in a middle-of-the-night appearance at the White House on Wednesday that he had won the race and that Democrats were conjuring fraudulent votes to undermine him, a theme he renewed on Thursday evening in grievance-filled remarks conjuring up, with no evidence, a conspiracy to steal votes from him.

The president’s campaign aides adopted a tone of brash defiance as swing states fell to Mr. Biden, promising a flurry of legal action. But while Mr. Trump’s ire had the potential to foment political divisions, there was no indication that he could succeed with his seemingly improvisational legal strategy.

Through it all, the coronavirus and its ravages on the country hung over the election and shaped the choice for voters. Facing an electorate already fatigued by his aberrant conduct, the president effectively sealed his defeat by minimizing a pandemic that has created simultaneous health and economic crises.

Beginning with the outbreak of the virus in the country at the start of the year, through his own diagnosis last month and up to the last hours of the election, he disregarded his medical advisers and public opinion even as over 230,000 people in the United States perished.

Mr. Biden, by contrast, sought to channel the dismay of those appalled by Mr. Trump’s mismanagement of the pandemic. He offered himself as a safe harbor for a broad array of Americans, promising to guide the nation out of what he called the “dark winter” of the outbreak, rather than delivering a visionary message with bright ideological themes.

While the president ridiculed mask-wearing and insisted on continuing his large rallies, endangering his own staff members and supporters, Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris campaigned with caution, avoiding indoor events, insisting on social distancing and always wearing masks.

Convinced that he could win back the industrial Northern states that swung to Mr. Trump four years ago, Mr. Biden focused his energy on Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Mr. Biden triumphed in those states on the strength of overwhelming support from women, who voted in large numbers to repudiate Mr. Trump despite his last-minute pleas to “suburban housewives,” as he called them. 

Many of the women who decided the president’s fate were politically moderate college-educated suburbanites, who made their presence felt as an electoral force first in the 2018 midterm elections, when a historic wave of female candidates and voters served as the driving force behind the Democratic sweep to power in the House.

Even aside from the pandemic, the 2020 campaign unfolded against a backdrop of national tumult unequaled in recent history, including the House’s vote to impeach the president less than a year ago, a national wave of protests over racial injustice last spring, spasms of civil unrest throughout the summer, the death of a Supreme Court justice in September and the hospitalization of Mr. Trump in October.

Along the way, Mr. Trump played to his conservative base, seeking to divide the nation over race and cultural flash points. He encouraged those fears, and the underlying social divisions that fostered them. And for months he sought to sow doubt over the legitimacy of the political process.

Mr. Biden, in response, offered a message of healing that appealed to Americans from far left to center right. He made common cause by promising relief from the unceasing invective and dishonesty of Mr. Trump’s presidency.

The former vice president also sought to demonstrate his differences with the president with his selection of Ms. Harris, 56, whose presence on the ticket as the daughter of Indian and Jamaican immigrants stood in stark contrast to Mr. Trump’s relentless scapegoating of migrants and members of racial-minority groups.

Mr. Biden will be only the second Catholic to attain the presidency, along with John F. Kennedy.

In an era when political differences have metastasized into tribal warfare, at least 74 million voters turned to a figure who has become known as the eulogist in chief for his empathy and friendships with Republicans and Democrats alike.

In a sign of how much Mr. Trump alienated traditional Republicans, a number of prominent members of the party endorsed Mr. Biden’s candidacy, including Cindy McCain, the widow of former Senator John McCain; the party’s other two presidential nominees this century, George W. Bush and Mitt Romney, declined to endorse Mr. Trump.

Yet for all his lofty language about uniting the country, Mr. Biden was a halting candidate who ran a cautious campaign, determined to ensure that the election became a referendum on Mr. Trump. The former vice president fully returned to the campaign trail only around Labor Day, and for weeks he limited his appearances to one state every other day or so. He went west of the Central time zone just once during the general election.

As he prepares to take the oath, he will return to Washington confronting a daunting set of crises. Mr. Biden will be pressed to swiftly secure and distribute a safe vaccine for the coronavirus, revive an economy that may be in even more dire shape in January than it is now, and address racial justice and policing issues that this year prompted some of the largest protests in American history.

And he will do so with a Congress that is far more polarized than the Senate he left over a decade ago, with many Republicans having embraced Mr. Trump’s nativist brand of populism and Democrats increasingly responsive to an energized left. If Mr. Biden cannot bridge that divide as president and elicit some cooperation from the G.O.P., he will face immense pressure from his party’s progressive wing to abandon conciliation for a posture of combat.

Mr. Biden has held out hope about working with Republican lawmakers while declining to support his party’s most ambitious goals, like single-payer health care and the Green New Deal; he has resisted structural changes such as adding justices to the Supreme Court.

This irked his party’s base but made it difficult for Republicans, from Mr. Trump down the ballot, to portray him as an extremist. Mr. Biden was largely absent from the appeals of G.O.P. candidates, who instead used their advertising to insist that the Democratic Party would be in the hands of more polarizing figures on the left such as Senator Bernie Sanders.

Unlike the last two Democrats who defeated incumbents after voters tired of Republican leadership, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, Mr. Biden will not arrive in the capital as a youthful outsider. Instead, he will fill out a Democratic leadership triumvirate, which includes Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, of lawmakers who are 70 or older.

Mr. Biden alluded to himself during the campaign as a transitional figure who would bring the country out of a crisis and then make way for a new generation. But he has privately rejected suggestions that he commit to serving just a single term, viewing that as an instant guarantee of lame-duck status.

One of the most significant tests of Mr. Biden’s presidency will be in how he navigates the widening divisions in his party.

He may enjoy a honeymoon, though, because of both the scale of the problems he is grappling with and the president he defeated.

This election represented the culmination of nearly four years of activism organized around opposing Mr. Trump, a movement that began with the Women’s March the day after his inauguration. Indeed, Mr. Biden’s election appeared less the unique achievement of a political standard-bearer than the apex of a political wave touched off by the 2016 election — one that Mr. Biden rode more than he directed it.

But Mr. Trump’s job approval rating never hit 50 percent and, when the coronavirus spread nationwide and Mr. Biden effectively claimed the Democratic nomination in March, the president’s hopes of running with a booming economy and against a far-left opponent evaporated at once.

Still, many Democrats were nervous and some Republicans were defiantly optimistic going into the election, both still gripped by Mr. Trump’s shocker four years ago. And well into the night Tuesday, it seemed as if the president might be able to do it again. But four days later, after a year of trial in America and four turbulent years of the Trump administration, victory was in hand for Mr. Biden.





No.2 article:
Biden Knows Washington Has Changed. He’s Less Sure He Has To.

Preparing to assume the presidency in a divided country, Joe Biden confronts the ultimate test of his principal theory of governance: that compromise is good and modest progress is still progress.

Joseph R. Biden Jr., distinguished backslapper and inveterate deal-seeker, has spent most of his last 50 years in the middle of things.

As a presidential candidate, he urged moderation, suggesting that the country was not as progressive as some Democratic rivals insisted.

As vice president, he was the White House emissary dispatched to negotiate with unbending Republicans in Congress, at times with too little success and too willing capitulation in the eyes of liberals.

And across his decades in the Senate, Mr. Biden tended to find his way to the center of the fray — civil rights debates, judicial hearings, the crime bill, the Iraq war — priding himself on a reputation as the lawmaker most likely to befriend Ted Kennedy and Strom Thurmond in the same lifetime.

“For the man who will see, time heals,” Mr. Biden said in a generous 2003 eulogy for Mr. Thurmond, the avowed South Carolina segregationist whom he saluted for moving to “the good side” eventually. “Time changes.”

Now, as Mr. Biden prepares to assume the presidency in a divided Washington, he will confront the ultimate test of how much times have changed, and how much he has. While Democrats have retained hope that two runoff elections in Georgia might deliver them narrow control of the Senate after all, Biden allies are bracing for the prospect that Republicans will rule the chamber.

Even an optimistic scenario for him — a 50-50 Senate with Kamala Harris supplying tiebreaking votes as vice president — would place a Biden administration at the mercy of the most centrist Democrats, like Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia.

As a matter of policymaking, this is plainly a significant disappointment for the Biden team, instantly complicating the legislative path for priorities like health care and climate action and raising the chances that even cabinet confirmations will require serious Republican cooperation.

At the same time, it would be difficult to conjure a more consequential proving ground for the arguments Mr. Biden has made throughout his career: that compromise is good, that modest progress is still progress and that he is the man to help make it happen.

“The refusal of Democrats and Republicans to cooperate with one another is not some mysterious force beyond our control,” he said in his victory speech from Wilmington, Del., on Saturday night. “It’s a decision, a choice we make. And if we can decide not to cooperate, then we can decide to cooperate.”

Friends say the election results seem likely to reinforce Mr. Biden’s belief in his own style, if only because he sees no other course available. He recognizes that the world has changed, they suggest; he is just less convinced that his worldview should.

The realities of a Republican-led Senate might even lend Mr. Biden some cover with the left, delaying or at least dulling thorny intraparty tussles over contentious progressive proposals like Supreme Court expansion.

“He won’t be so captive to a certain element in his own party,” said Chuck Hagel, who worked with Mr. Biden as Barack Obama’s defense secretary and as a Republican senator from Nebraska. “In a way I think that strengthens his hand for his style of governing and how he approaches governing. There’s no other option. He’s got to reach out and work with both parties.”

Some younger Democrats have accused Mr. Biden of clinging to a bygone — and, they say, forever-gone — vision of collaborative government.

This was a week, after all, during which some Republican lawmakers indulged or even wholly embraced President Trump’s baseless, dangerous claims of wide-scale election fraud.

“Joe Biden will have defeated Donald Trump by millions of votes in a resounding victory,” said Waleed Shahid, a spokesman for Justice Democrats, a group that helped elect Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other progressives to Congress. “And meanwhile, the Republican Party’s leadership is on television delegitimizing the next four years.”

Mr. Shahid urged Mr. Biden not to treat Republicans as good-faith governing partners. “We are just in a very different time now,” he said.

But Mr. Biden has long held himself out as a figure with uncommon powers of persuasion, one determined to see the good in people and unencumbered by rigid ideology.

He has often told audiences of advice he says he received early in his career from Mike Mansfield, the longtime Senate majority leader: “It’s always appropriate to question another man’s judgment,” Mr. Biden recalled him saying, in a 2015 address, “but never appropriate to question his motives because you simply don’t know his motives.”

The trouble for Mr. Biden now is that Republican motives and incentives will almost certainly run counter to his much of the time. When Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, last faced a Democratic White House — the one in which Mr. Biden served — he said explicitly that his goal was to make Mr. Obama a one-term president.

While Mr. Biden maintained a far more cordial relationship with Mr. McConnell in those years and has said he would work with the Republican “where we can agree,” he often strained in his 2020 bid to land on a compelling explanation for why a Biden administration would succeed in fostering bipartisanship where an Obama administration could not.

His point often seemed to be that he had to try anyway. “We don’t talk to each other anymore,” Mr. Biden lamented last year, earning a scolding from some Democrats after warmly invoking the “civility” that defined his relationships with segregationist peers early in his Senate life.

But then, this has always been the question for Mr. Biden in this campaign: Is he a man for this Washington moment or an old one? Is he too fixated on the latter to understand the former?

The voters, at least, saw fit to find out.

In interviews, former colleagues seemed split on Mr. Biden’s capacity to transcend today’s pervasive partisanship, with some doubtful that the Republican posture would change much even with Mr. Trump out of office.

“I don’t think it’s transferable,” former Senator Bob Kerrey, a Nebraska Democrat who served with Mr. Biden through the 1990s, said of the chamber’s productive tenor in that age. “He was there for eight years under Obama. He knows that the Republicans can be very, very obstructionist if they want to be.”

Still, Mr. Kerrey added, maybe it was useful to be “a little naïve” and make bipartisan overtures regardless, in part to “get public opinion on his side for his big initiatives.”

Carol Moseley Braun, a former Democratic senator from Illinois, said that much of Mr. Biden’s expertise in Washington power and procedure remained relevant.

“He knows the levers of government better than anybody,” she said. She recalled his help in gaming out Senate dynamics in 1993, when she was a freshman senator seeking to block a request to grant the United Daughters of the Confederacy a renewed patent on an emblem with the Confederate battle flag.

Of course, some snapshots of compromise and collegiality from Mr. Biden’s career around that time have aged poorly with Democrats. Among other reconsiderations, he has expressed regret for the Judiciary Committee’s treatment of Anita Hill at the 1991 confirmation hearings for Justice Clarence Thomas, when many liberals say Mr. Biden, the committee chairman, was too deferential to Senate Republicans who subjected Ms. Hill to demeaning and invasive questioning.

More relevant to Mr. Biden’s present mind-set, those who know him say, are the Obama years. Their two terms were hamstrung by opposition from Tea Party Republicans who directed their fury at the nation’s first Black president and showed little interest in working with him. None of it caused Mr. Biden to abandon his instinct for consensus-building, whether or not such an aim was always possible.

“It tested his faith in that kind of thinking,” said Matt Teper, a top speechwriter for Mr. Biden at the time. “But it never manifested itself in any kind of frothy animosity.”

Several supporters cited Mr. Biden’s pledge this past week to be a president “for all Americans,” the sort of generically hopeful message they say the times demand.

In remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Biden said that once the election passed, the hour would finally come “to unite, to heal, to come together as a nation.”

“This won’t be easy,” he said. “I’m not naïve.”

No one has challenged the first part.





No.3 article:
A President-Elect Shaped by Tragedy and Tradition

Joseph R. Biden Jr. has spent his career devoted to institutions and relationships. And those are the tools he will rely on to govern a fractured nation.

Thirty-three years ago, he was the fast-talking junior senator from Delaware with a chip on his shoulder, desperate to prove his gravitas during a brief, ill-fated presidential run.

The next time around, in 2008, he was the seasoned foreign policy hand and veteran lawmaker who strained to capture the imagination of Democratic presidential primary voters.

As he weighed a third attempt at the presidency last year, many Democrats feared he was too late. Too old, too moderate, too meandering to excite ascendant voices in his party, too rooted in the more civil politics of the past to nimbly handle Donald Trump.

Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. ran anyway. He ran as a grieving father who connected with a country in pain. As a relative centrist who emphasized character, stability and belief in bipartisanship over the particulars of a policy agenda. As a flawed, uneven campaigner whose vulnerabilities were ultimately drowned out by his opponent’s outsize weaknesses, and eclipsed by the seismic issues at stake, as the nation confronted the ravages of a deadly pandemic.

In many ways, he ran as the politician he has always been. And for one extraordinary election, that was enough.

“They’re not so much saying, ‘I’m investing in Joe Biden because of his philosophy,’” said former Senator William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine, who served with Mr. Biden and supported him this year. “They’re invested in Joe Biden because of him, of who they see as being a human being.”

Mr. Biden’s victory on Saturday is the culmination of a career that began in the Nixon era and spanned a half-century of political and social upheaval. But if the country, the political parties and Washington have changed since Mr. Biden, now 77, arrived in the Senate as a 30-year-old widower in 1973, some of his attitudes — about governing and about his fellow Americans — have hardly changed at all.

He still reveres institutions, defiantly champions compromise and sees politics more in terms of relationships than ideology. He has insisted that with Mr. Trump out of office, Republicans will have an “epiphany” about working with Democrats — a view that elides the fact that Republicans were rarely interested in working with the Obama administration when Mr. Biden was vice president.

Those beliefs, coupled with his reputation as an empathetic and experienced leader, made Mr. Biden acceptable to a broad coalition of Americans this year, including independents and some moderate Republicans.

Now, Mr. Biden’s convictions about how to unite the country and move forward will be tested as never before.

He will take the helm of a nation devastated by a health crisis, reeling from an economic downturn and divided over virtually every major political matter of the day, from how and even whether to confront climate change and racial injustice, to baseless questions from some of Mr. Trump’s supporters about the very legitimacy of free and fair election results.

His first priority, Mr. Biden has said, will be to bring the coronavirus under control, as he also works to invest in infrastructure and to promote economic growth. Mr. Biden has released a series of policy plans around all of those issues, and has made clear that a national emergency calls for urgent and ambitious action.

But the president-elect, a 36-year veteran of the Senate who has never embraced the most far-reaching progressive proposals, is also well aware that the partisan makeup of Washington may limit the scope of his agenda. He is unlikely to press for rapid, transformational change of institutions like the Supreme Court or to embrace the boldest proposals in the Green New Deal.

Yet for all of his instincts for consensus-building, he will face enormous and conflicting pressures when he returns to Washington.

Progressives who papered over their differences with Mr. Biden in the name of defeating Mr. Trump will quickly turn to fighting for their priorities, which may not always align with Mr. Biden’s goals or timeline.

“Where the progressive energy will really turn angry is if we see Biden really compromising on core principles,” warned Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, a co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus.

Even his closest allies believe there are elements of his long record that should be reconsidered from the White House, including the legacy of the crime bills passed during his tenure in the Senate. Mr. Biden for years served as a tough-on-crime Democrat, and he has sometimes struggled to account for his leading role in the 1994 crime bill, which many experts now associate with mass incarceration.

“He needs to put together a commission or a committee to study the 1986 and 1994 crime bills,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the highest-ranking Black official in Congress, describing mass incarceration as an unintended consequence. “We’ve got to rectify.”

And Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the powerful Republican leader, has a relationship with Mr. Biden — but he is unlikely to be moved by encomiums to bipartisanship and civility.

“Joe is a peacemaker — he’s always tried to get along with Republicans,” said Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat and the former Senate majority leader.

But he was skeptical that Republican leaders in Congress would feel similarly about curbing divisiveness in Washington.

“I just hope Joe’s right and I’m wrong,” he said, “but I don’t see that coming to an end.”

Mr. Biden was a mediocre student with big ambitions, a gregarious young football player from an Irish Catholic family who overcame a stutter and dreamed of running for president.

In the meantime, he settled for school politics, serving as class president at his Catholic high school and adopting an approachable manner that he would deploy decades later on the campaign trail.

“The joke was, if Joe stood next to a light pole, he’d strike up a conversation,” said Bob Markel, a childhood friend of Mr. Biden’s. “You were talking to him for 20 seconds, he’d put out his hand and say, ‘Joe Biden.’”

He came from a line of politically engaged Pennsylvanians on his mother’s side, with a great-grandfather who served as a state senator. His father was a dignified man who had struggled financially, “a student of history with an unyielding sense of justice,” Mr. Biden said in his eulogy. Joseph R. Biden Sr., who moved the family from Scranton, Pa., to Delaware when Mr. Biden was 10, shaped his son’s moral compass and instilled in him a strong sense of identity; his story looms large in Mr. Biden’s efforts today to connect with working-class Americans.

Mr. Biden enrolled at the University of Delaware, where he threw himself into politics as freshman class president. He participated in the occasional high jinks, though even then he was fairly conservative in his personal manner.

“It’s the same style that I think we’ve seen since he was a teenager,” Mr. Markel said. “That moderation can be seen when he was in his teens. He was a fun-loving guy, certainly outgoing, but he didn’t do crazy things.”

For all of his political ambitions, he was at a remove from the antiwar activism taking hold among his peers in the caldron of the 1960s, and he was not one for protesting. After graduating from law school, he followed a path into institutional Democratic politics: young lawyer, part-time public defender and rising star within the Delaware party establishment.

At the end of that decade, party elders suggested he try his hand at a seat on the New Castle County Council.

“I spent most of my time in heavily Democratic precincts,” Mr. Biden recalled, describing the race in a memoir. “But I also spent a great deal of time going door to door in the middle-class neighborhoods like the one I grew up in. They were overwhelmingly Republican in 1970, but I knew how to talk to them.”

At the age of 30, Mr. Biden was moving swiftly in his political career. But personally, he was a broken man.

In a day, he had gone from a married father of three who won a startling victory in the 1972 Senate race to a widower with two toddlers in the hospital after a car crash killed his wife, Neilia, and their baby daughter, Naomi.

For months, he struggled to adjust to the Senate job he had wanted so badly.

Decades later, one of his surviving sons, Beau, would die of brain cancer. Mr. Biden, by then vice president, would be shattered anew.

Yet those staggering personal losses, friends say, shaped Mr. Biden’s uncommon ability to empathize — perhaps his greatest strength.

On the campaign trail, he never spoke with deeper authority than when he promised a grieving voter that one day, the memory of a loved one would bring a smile before a tear. His skill at connecting with voters in pain, allies say, uniquely prepared him to run for president amid a pandemic that has killed more than 237,000 people in the United States and upended the lives of many others on Mr. Trump’s watch.

“He understood the emotional trauma that Trump has inflicted on the country in a way that most of the other candidates didn’t,” said Shailagh Murray, who was a top aide to Mr. Biden as vice president.

After the 1972 accident, Mr. Biden slowly began rebuilding his life, later marrying Jill Jacobs and having a daughter, Ashley.

And eventually, he settled into Washington, too, where his early instincts for bipartisanship and working within the system were reinforced by mentors like Mike Mansfield, the longtime Senate majority leader.

Mr. Biden rose to lead the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee. He advanced signature policy achievements like the Violence Against Women Act and an assault weapons ban, and he developed relationships with leaders around the world. He torpedoed the nomination of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court, a setback that some Republicans remain bitter about to this day, and championed the confirmation of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

His tenure in the Senate is also associated with what many Americans see as the mistreatment of Anita Hill before his committee during the Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas; with his vote for the Iraq war and his opposition to busing; and with his leading efforts on the 1994 crime bill that troubled some voters throughout the campaign.

As he navigated Congress, Mr. Biden built relationships with similarly consensus-minded Republicans like Senators Bob Dole, Arlen Specter and John McCain.

But Mr. Biden, who has said he was motivated to run for office in part by a belief in civil rights, was also willing to work with even the most virulent segregationist senators. And perhaps the most controversial speech he has given was his eulogy for Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina. 

“At least there was some civility,” Mr. Biden said at a fund-raiser in June 2019, citing James O. Eastland of Mississippi and Herman E. Talmadge of Georgia. “We didn’t agree on much of anything. We got things done.”

Under fire, Mr. Biden ultimately expressed regret for the way he invoked segregationist former colleagues.

He did not apologize for the instinct.

The stature Mr. Biden gained in the Senate did not always translate on the presidential campaign trail.

His 1988 race ended in humiliation amid a plagiarism controversy.

In 2008, Mr. Biden struggled to stand out in a talented and crowded field that included Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. He dropped out after Iowa, after cementing his reputation for verbal gaffes by referring to Mr. Obama as “articulate and bright and clean.”

But as Mr. Obama’s vice president, Mr. Biden was in many ways back in his element.

“Every time we had a trouble in the administration, who got sent to the Hill to settle it? Me,” Mr. Biden said at that 2019 fund-raiser. “Because I demonstrate respect for them.”

Sometimes that approach got him results — he helped secure three Republican votes for the economic stimulus bill in 2009, for example.

On other occasions — including a major gun control effort after the school shooting in Newtown, Conn. — it ultimately did not.

Mr. Biden, like many of his fellow Democrats, was enraged by the Trump presidency and fearful about the corrosive effects of four more years of extraordinary divisiveness.

But he was also closely attuned to moderate, older Black primary voters and had carefully followed which Democrats won in the toughest districts in the 2018 midterm elections. As Mr. Biden mulled a third presidential bid, he was skeptical of tacking far to the left in response to Mr. Trump and his Republican allies. And he was convinced, based on his own experiences, that he could help find common ground.

“Through very difficult periods in the country’s history, he believes he has been able to bring people together,” said Mike Donilon, Mr. Biden’s chief strategist, citing the 2009 stimulus bill and his efforts on a sweeping health measure at the end of 2016. “Beyond the politics, there are also just fundamental judgments about how to treat people, how to talk to them.”

Throughout his campaign, Mr. Biden has championed that approach, sometimes with a touch of performative defensiveness.

“We need to revive the spirit of bipartisanship in this country,” he said in a speech in Gettysburg, Pa., last month. “I’m accused of being naïve. I’m told, ‘Maybe that’s the way things used to work, Joe, but they can’t work that way anymore.’”

“They can and they must if we’re going to get anything done,” he said.

Mr. Biden, of course, has a policy agenda too, one that he has addressed often in recent months.

He ran on a platform of expanding health care access through a public option, and promoting the middle class. He promised to tackle climate change and to combat racial injustice, acknowledging that America has “never lived up” to the promise that all Americans are created equal. After the pandemic hit, he grew increasingly open to more ambitious social and economic proposals.

But more than anything, he ran as himself, with all of the convictions and the flaws he has displayed over a half-century in public life.

There were the exaggerations and verbal blunders and the flashes of temper. He lost the first three contests, and his campaign was practically moribund when Black voters in South Carolina, who saw him as a familiar and reassuring figure in troubled times, rescued his bid.

“We know Joe,” Mr. Clyburn said as he endorsed Mr. Biden. “But most importantly, Joe knows us.”

And through those peaks and valleys, Mr. Biden hewed to one consistent message: that the turmoil of the Trump era was an existential threat to the character of the country — and that he was uniquely equipped to lower the nation’s temperature and try to bring the country together.

“Has the heart of this nation turned to stone?” Mr. Biden said recently, speaking in Warm Springs, Ga. “I refuse to believe it. I know this country. I know our people. And I know we can unite and heal this nation.”

In some ways, it is a promise he has been preparing to make for his whole career.

This time around, a majority of American voters decided to believe him.





No.4 article:
Kamala Harris Makes History as First Woman and Woman of Color as Vice President

Ms. Harris, the daughter of an Indian mother and Jamaican father, has risen higher in the country’s leadership than any woman ever before her.

From the earliest days of her childhood, Kamala Harris was taught that the road to racial justice was long.

She spoke often on the campaign trail of those who had come before her, of her parents, immigrants drawn to the civil rights struggle in the United States — and of the ancestors who had paved the way.

As she took the stage in Texas shortly before the election, Ms. Harris spoke of being singular in her role but not solitary.

“Yes, sister, sometimes we may be the only one that looks like us walking in that room,” she told a largely Black audience in Fort Worth. “But the thing we all know is we never walk in those rooms alone — we are all in that room together.”

With her ascension to the vice presidency, Ms. Harris will become the first woman and first woman of color to hold that office, a milestone for a nation in upheaval, grappling with a damaging history of racial injustice exposed, yet again, in a divisive election. Ms. Harris, 56, embodies the future of a country that is growing more racially diverse, even if the person voters picked for the top of the ticket is a 77-year-old white man.

In her victory speech Saturday, Ms. Harris spoke of her mother and the generations of women of all races who paved the way for this moment. “While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last,” she told a cheering and honking audience in Wilmington, Del. “Because every little girl watching tonight sees that this is a country of possibilities.”

That she has risen higher in the country’s leadership than any woman ever has underscores the extraordinary arc of her political career. A former San Francisco district attorney, she was elected as the first Black woman to serve as California’s attorney general. When she was elected a United States senator in 2016, she became only the second Black woman in the chamber’s history.

Almost immediately, she made a name for herself in Washington with her withering prosecutorial style in Senate hearings, grilling her adversaries in high-stakes moments that at times went viral.

Yet what also distinguished her was her personal biography: The daughter of a Jamaican father and Indian mother, she was steeped in racial justice issues from her early years in Oakland and Berkeley, Calif., and wrote in her memoir of memories of the chants, shouts and “sea of legs moving about” at protests. She recalled hearing Shirley Chisholm, the first Black woman to mount a national campaign for president, speak in 1971 at a Black cultural center in Berkeley that she frequented as a young girl. “Talk about strength!” she wrote. 

After several years in Montreal, Ms. Harris attended Howard University, a historically Black college and one of the country’s most prestigious, then pursued work as a prosecutor on domestic violence and child exploitation cases. She speaks easily and often of her mother, a breast cancer researcher who died in 2009; of her white and Jewish husband, Douglas Emhoff, who will make history in his own right as the first second gentleman; and of her stepchildren, who call her Momala.

It was a story she tried to tell on the campaign trail during the Democratic primary with mixed success. Kicking off her candidacy with homages to Ms. Chisholm, Ms. Harris attracted a crowd in Oakland that her advisers estimated at more than 20,000, a tremendous show of strength that immediately established her as a front-runner in the race. But vying for the nomination against the most diverse field of candidates in history, she failed to capture a surge of support and dropped out weeks before any votes were cast.

Part of her challenge, especially with the party’s progressive wing she sought to win over, was the difficulty she had reconciling her past positions as California’s attorney general with the current mores of her party. She struggled to define her policy agenda, waffling on health care and even her own assault on Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s record on race, perhaps the toughest attack he faced throughout the primary campaign.

“Policy has to be relevant,” Ms. Harris said in an interview with The New York Times in July 2019. “That’s my guiding principle: Is it relevant? Not, ‘Is it a beautiful sonnet?’”

But it is also this lack of ideological rigidity that makes her well suited for the vice presidency, a role that demands a tempering of personal views in deference to the man at the top. As the vice-presidential nominee, Ms. Harris has endeavored to make plain that she supports Mr. Biden’s positions — even if some differ from those she backed during the primary.

While she struggled to attract the very women and Black voters she had hoped would connect with her personal story during her primary bid, she continued to make a concerted effort as Mr. Biden’s running mate to reach out to people of color, some of whom have said they feel represented in national politics for the first time.

Many witnessed — and recoiled at — the persistent racist and sexist attacks from conservatives. President Trump has refused to pronounce her name correctly and after the vice-presidential debate, he derided her as a “monster.”

For some of her supporters, the vitriol Ms. Harris had to withstand was another aspect of her experience they found relatable.

“I know what I was thrown into as the only African-American at the table,” said Clara Faulkner, the mayor pro tem of Forest Hill, Texas, as she waited for Ms. Harris to address a socially distanced crowd in Fort Worth. “It’s just seeing God move in a mighty way.”

While some members of the political establishment professed outrage at the insults, friends of Ms. Harris knew that her pragmatism extended to her understanding of how the political world treats women of color.

Senator Cory Booker, a colleague and friend of Ms. Harris’s who has known her for decades, said in an interview that some of her guardedness was a form of self-protection in a world that has not always embraced a barrier-breaking Black woman.

“She still has this grace about her where it’s almost as if these things don’t affect her spirit,” Mr. Booker said. “She’s endured this for her entire career and she does not give people license to have entrance into her heart.”

After waiting days for results, Democrats rejoiced in a victory that offered a bright spot in an election that delivered losses to many of their candidates, including several high-profile women.

Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, who got involved in politics through Ms. Chisholm’s presidential campaign, said she always believed she would see the first Black woman at the steps of the White House.

“Here you have now this remarkable, brilliant, prepared African-American woman, South Asian woman, ready to fulfill the dreams and aspirations of Shirley Chisholm and myself and so many women of color,” she said. “This is exciting and is finally a breakthrough that so many of us have been waiting for. And it didn’t come easy.”

The Democrats’ down-ballot defeats tempered the celebratory mood a bit, as did a wistful sense among some activists and leaders that this historic first still leaves women in second place — closer than ever to the Oval Office, sure, but not in it.

The end to a presidency that inspired waves of opposition from women, many politically engaged for the first time, has left the “highest, hardest glass ceiling” intact. Democratic primary voters, including a significant number of women, had rallied behind Mr. Biden, eschewing the women and people of color in the race because they believed Mr. Biden would be most capable of beating Mr. Trump. Scarred by Hillary Clinton’s defeat four years ago, many believed the country was not quite ready to elect a female commander in chief.

Ms. Harris’s presence on the ticket will forever be linked to Mr. Biden’s explicit promise to select a female running mate in an acknowledgment that the party’s future probably does not look like him.

Ms. Harris now finds herself the most clearly positioned heir to the White House. Perhaps more than any other vice president in recent memory, she will be carefully scrutinized for her ambitions, a level of attention that is perhaps inevitable for the No. 2 of the oldest incoming No. 1 in history.

Mr. Biden understands this, Mr. Booker said: “He is really bringing us to the next election.”

Allies say Ms. Harris is acutely aware of her place in history. She views her work as connected to both the civil rights leaders who came before her — the “ancestors,” as she calls them — and the generations she hopes to empower. 

Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, a rising figure in the party’s left wing, said Ms. Harris’s ascent was a deep source of pride among South Asians, expanding the imaginations of how high they can climb in American public life. Ms. Jayapal has spoken proudly of her own connection to the new vice president, writing an op-ed article in The Los Angeles Times in August describing their intertwined family history in South India.

“She understands what it means to be the child of immigrants — what it means to be a person of color seeking racial justice,” she said, pointing to Ms. Harris’s work on rights for domestic workers and helping Muslim immigrants get access to legal counsel. “There’s just so much you don’t have to explain to a Vice President Harris and I believe she will fight for many of the issues that are important to our South Asian community.”

The small sorority of Black women in federal politics also views Ms. Harris as a mentor and an ally, praising her championing of issues like Black maternal mortality and anti-lynching legislation that have not typically received the spotlight that can follow a high-wattage political brand.

When Representative Lauren Underwood was mounting her first race for Congress, trying to become the first Black woman to win her predominantly white suburban Chicago district, Ms. Harris reached out for coffee.

“There’s not that many Black women who have been at the highest level of politics in this country. Not that many Black women who have run very competitive races,” said Ms. Underwood, who became the youngest Black woman ever elected to Congress in 2018. “To have the opportunity to learn from, counsel from and just know someone who has done that is something I find incredibly valuable.”

Kimberlé Crenshaw, a prominent Black progressive scholar, hailed Ms. Harris’s ascension to the vice presidency and described her as “well positioned to weather the storms that will definitely come now that she has broken through the glass ceiling.”

But amid the joy and sense of empowerment in seeing a woman of color as the nation’s second-highest elected official, she also cautioned that the history-making moment should not distract progressives from continuing to push their agenda.

“This is still the Biden administration — what Kamala Harris thinks or does has to be recognized as being part of that administration,” she said. “So we cannot let the pedal to the metal be slowed in any way because we’re celebrating the fact that we’ve had this breakthrough moment.”

For others, that moment has been a very long time coming.

Opal Lee, 94, paid a poll tax when she first went to vote, choosing between casting her ballot for the Democratic candidate or buying food for her four young children. Decades later, Ms. Lee, a former teacher and activist from Fort Worth, Texas, celebrated at President Barack Obama’s inauguration.

Despite the health risks from the coronavirus pandemic, Ms. Lee has no intention of missing Mr. Biden’s inauguration in Washington this January — to witness Ms. Harris.

“I want to be able to tell my great-great-grandchildren how it felt for a woman to be vice president,” she said. “I just got to go.”





No.5 article:
Some Latinos Voted for Trump. Get Over It.

I’m Latina. I still don’t know what that means.

On Wednesday the country woke up to the fact that a sizable portion of Latinos liked President Trump enough to help him clinch a victory in Florida. And a CNN exit poll suggested that Mr. Trump picked up more Latino voters in several other key battleground states compared with his numbers in 2016.

Many people were surprised, but they shouldn’t be. In 1984, 37 percent of Latinos voted for Ronald Reagan; 40 percent voted for George W. Bush in 2004. It would be easy to dismiss these voters as self hating, or racists. But that’s a simplistic way of viewing this wildly diverse and complex demographic.

The reason the “Latino vote” befuddles is because it doesn’t exist, nor do “Latino issues.” If we want to understand how Latinos vote, we should start by retiring the word “Latino” entirely — and maybe “Hispanic,” too, a term first used by the United States government in the 1970 census that is based solely on the language native to the European settlers who conquered the Americas. These labels have served only to reduce us to a two-dimensional caricature: poor brown immigrants who always vote Democrat.

Latinos, like all Americans, are motivated by the issues that affect them directly. Those can vary depending on factors like our religion, where we grew up, whether we are first generation or our ancestors lived in North America long before the United States existed. Many Democrats act as if Latinos care only about immigration policy. In fact, a recent survey by UnidosUS, an advocacy group, and Latino Decisions, a polling and research firm, found that Latinos are more concerned about jobs and the economy.

Journalists and pundits who have spent some time in Latin America or interviewed a few Spanish speakers (and now fancy themselves experts) have suggested that machismo, and a desire to be closer to whiteness, is what drove these voters to support the man who promised to build a wall to keep caravans of Spanish-speaking brown people out. That may be true, but it’s far from the whole story.

I’m a Cuban-American from Miami, and I’m not surprised that around 52 percent of Cuban-Americans in Florida voted for Mr. Trump. No one who was paying attention could be. In the weeks leading up to the election, Cubans in Miami composed a salsa song in support of Mr. Trump and organized Trump caravans hundreds of cars long.

It may sound ridiculous, but some of those voters are genuinely afraid of socialism, and he leaned into that. “We will never have a socialist country,” he promised. He understood that for Cubans and Venezuelans, the word is a reminder of the dysfunctional governments they left behind.

It didn’t matter as much to them that the punitive sanctions Mr. Trump imposed on Venezuela did nothing to dislodge an oppressive dictator, or that rolling back parts of President Barack Obama’s thaw on Cuba has only made things harder for families like mine back on the island. They cared that Mr. Trump delivered on his promises.

He kept his promise on the courts, too. The three conservative judges he nominated most likely mattered to evangelical Latinos in Central Florida who care deeply about issues like abortion. In return, many of these voters, like others, could overlook his questionable morals or autocratic tendencies.

Though many Cuban-Americans benefit from the Affordable Care Act, many also own or work in small businesses. They cheered the removal under Mr. Trump of the Obamacare requirement that most Americans have health insurance or pay a fine. Michael Binder, a University of North Florida pollster, noted that business owners liked Trump’s message that the coronanvirus pandemic was “rounding the turn.”

Protecting your interests is classic American individualism.

Finally, maybe part of the appeal of a leader like Mr. Trump is that he feels familiar. I was parsing the results with Ariana Diaz, a Venezuelan friend living in the United States, the day after the election. “We come from a place where there hasn’t been a working democracy in at least 20 years,” she said. She wondered if perhaps that’s why Venezuelan voters were more susceptible to his message. They’re not the only ones. Many people who lived under the brutal governments foisted upon Central America in the 1980s vote Republican, and consider Reagan a hero.

Mexican-American voters in Zapata County in Texas also helped Mr. Trump hold onto the state. But of course plenty of so-called Latinos did vote for Mr. Biden. In Wisconsin and New Mexico, they helped him win. While the votes are still being tallied, Latino activists and grass roots political organizations may also help him win Nevada and Arizona.

But Mr. Biden spent little time and resources on outreach to Latino voters. This is also not new. Most campaigns court our vote only every two or four years. They assume we all speak Spanish, look the same and vote the same. Only one Senate candidate, Ben Ray Luján, a Democrat who won his bid for the U.S. Senate in New Mexico, had a Latino campaign manager or senior consultants on staff, according to the political consultant Chuck Rocha.

This isn’t just about how politicians woo some voters while taking others for granted; it’s also about how the news media sees and reports on these groups. At a social event a few years back, a fellow journalist introduced me to a friend as someone who rose from being a custodian to a self-taught journalist and master’s degree candidate. But I’d never been a custodian. It was as if she was shocked that someone like me could do something other than clean.

The language society uses doesn’t just shape the national narrative, it ascribes an identity independent of who we are. “Audre Lorde said that the master’s tools will never dismantle the master’s house,” Nathalie Nieves, the president of the New York chapter of the National Association of Hispanic Journalists told me. “One of those tools includes language and the way the media continues to refer to us as Latino or Hispanic.”

If I’m totally honest, I only learned I was a Latina in the last few years. I still don’t know what that means. Growing up, I thought of myself as Cuban, or maybe Caribbean. Eventually, I became a citizen and thus a Cuban-American. These days I think of myself as an American.

I will not fit neatly into the “Latina” box others want to put me into. While my culture may be a prism through which I view the world, it doesn’t guarantee that I will identify with or vote like other Cuban-Americans, let alone other Latinos. Mr. Trump understood that. Hopefully Democrats do now, too.





No.6 article:
Six in White House, Including Trump’s Chief of Staff, Have the Coronavirus

Mark Meadows aided President Trump’s efforts to play down the virus throughout the summer. A Trump campaign adviser and four other White House aides also tested positive.

Six White House aides and a Trump campaign adviser — including Mark Meadows, President Trump’s chief of staff — have contracted the coronavirus, officials said, raising fears of another outbreak sweeping through the ranks of the nation’s top officials as cases surge to record levels in the country.

Mr. Meadows, who routinely shrugged off the need to wear masks and embraced Mr. Trump’s strategy of playing down the threat from the coronavirus over the summer, informed a small group of White House advisers that he had tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, a senior administration official said late Friday.

Five other White House officials also tested positive for the virus in the days before and after Election Day, people familiar with the diagnoses told The New York Times. Bloomberg News also reported on additional cases around the president, who contracted the virus last month and spent three days in the hospital receiving experimental treatments.

Nick Trainer, who worked on the president’s campaign, has also tested positive for the coronavirus, a person briefed on his diagnosis said.

The new wave of infections rattled and angered members of the White House staff even as they struggled to come to grips with Mr. Trump’s likely loss in the presidential race. News of the infections emerged despite warnings to keep quiet about the new cases, according to two White House officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to publicly discuss internal conversations.

A few weeks ago, Mr. Meadows sought to keep an outbreak in Vice President Mike Pence’s office from becoming public.

Public health experts said the infections of Mr. Meadows and the others at the White House underscored the importance of taking numerous steps to prevent the spread of the virus. Mr. Meadows and Mr. Trump have said repeatedly that they did not need to wear masks or maintain social distancing because they were frequently tested.

“It’s emblematic of the national failure to control Covid,” said Tom Frieden, who served as the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under President Barack Obama. “It shows the fallacy of relying on testing alone. Testing doesn’t replace other safety measures. It’s just one tool among many.”

The new cases at the White House came as the pandemic rampaged across the United States, which has averaged more than 100,000 new cases per day over the past week and hit another record on Friday, with more than 132,700 cases in a single day.

As of Saturday morning, more than 9,830,800 people in the United States had been infected with the coronavirus, and more than 236,500 had died.

Mr. Meadows is the latest in a string of people connected to the White House to contract the virus in the past seven weeks, including Mr. Trump and the first lady, Melania Trump, a half-dozen aides to the president and five aides to Mr. Pence, including his chief of staff, Marc Short. Several journalists who work at the White House were also infected. On Saturday, Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida and a close ally of Mr. Trump’s, disclosed that he had tested positive for virus antibodies on Tuesday but said he did not know when he had contracted the virus.

At least one gathering at the White House — a celebration of Mr. Trump’s nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court on Sept. 26 — is suspected of being a “superspreader” event after more than a dozen aides, reporters and guests who were in attendance or came into contact with people who were there tested positive for the virus.

That event took place in the Rose Garden and inside the White House.

Dr. Frieden said it was possible the new cases, including Mr. Meadows’s, may actually be part of the same outbreak from late September, rather than a separate cluster of cases. That would suggest that the White House has not gotten control of the virus as it spreads through the West Wing.

“It may be the same cluster that has continued for well over a month,” Dr. Frieden said. “You’re not going to control it if you don’t try to control it.”

Mr. Trump has spent most of the year playing down the threat of the virus, and several White House officials, including Mr. Meadows, have encouraged him to treat the pandemic as a localized threat in Democratic-leaning states.

It is unclear how aggressive the White House intends to be in trying to track the contacts that Mr. Meadows and the other infected aides have had over the past several days. People who test positive are often infectious in the days leading up to the test, especially if they have symptoms of the disease.

Mr. Meadows, a former member of Congress, is a gregarious presence at the White House whose position requires him to interact with people throughout the West Wing and frequently takes him to the residential part of the White House to meet with the president.

On Tuesday night, Mr. Meadows was at Mr. Trump’s election party at the White House, which included several hundred people gathered in the East Room for several hours, many of them not wearing masks as they mingled while watching the election returns.

The president’s chief of staff was also in contact with a coterie of aides earlier in the day at the Trump campaign headquarters in Virginia, crammed into a tight space, where he was not wearing a mask as the president greeted campaign workers.

During the pandemic, Mr. Meadows has pushed for a focus on efforts to revive the economy and only sporadically wore a mask as he traveled with the president or attended some crowded events in the Oval Office.

Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Meadows often mocked reporters who wore masks around him, saying the face coverings muffled their voices. A video clip of Mr. Meadows refusing to give a statement to reporters at the Capitol because they asked him to wear his mask was widely shared across social media.

He has also been among the West Wing officials who have favored minimizing the public appearances of Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, who has issued far more dire warnings about the threat of the virus than Mr. Trump has wanted to have publicly declared.

In the waning days of the presidential campaign, Mr. Meadows made unwanted headlines when he acknowledged during a television interview that the government would not be able “control” the pandemic. Critics and Mr. Trump’s political rivals seized on the comment as evidence that the administration had given up on fighting the virus.

“We are not going to control the pandemic,” Mr. Meadows told Jake Tapper, the host of “State of the Union” on CNN. “We are going to control the fact that we get vaccines, therapeutics and other mitigation areas.”

Mr. Meadows was one of few people fully briefed on Mr. Trump’s own bout of Covid-19, which the president announced on Oct. 2. He was involved in coaxing a reluctant Mr. Trump to go voluntarily to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center at a time when the president was resisting such a move but his oxygen levels had dropped and he had a high fever.

But Mr. Meadows also had a starring role in an episode that enraged Mr. Trump the day after the president was flown to the hospital. After Mr. Trump’s doctor, Sean P. Conley, did not answer questions honestly about the president’s symptoms, Mr. Meadows approached a small group of reporters in the White House pool and gave a more candid assessment that the president was not quite out of the woods.

He gave it on the assumption he would not be identified, but a C-SPAN camera captured Mr. Meadows talking to the reporters. Mr. Trump was livid when he learned that Mr. Meadows had said something revealing about his medical condition.

A few weeks later, when Mr. Short and four other aides to Mr. Pence fell ill, The Times reported that Mr. Meadows had sought to keep the information secret.

People close to Mr. Meadows insisted he had merely wanted contact tracing to take place before any information became public. But he all but confirmed in an interview with Mr. Tapper, who asked about the Times’s reporting, that he did not believe the White House should discuss the health of anyone other than the president or the vice president.

Mr. Meadows did not respond to a request for comment on Friday night. A White House spokesman also declined to comment, citing a need to maintain privacy of personnel health matters.





No.7 article:
This Election, a Divided America Stands United on One Topic

All kinds of Americans have turned their back on the destructive war on drugs.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

It can take a while to determine the victor in a presidential election. But one winner was abundantly clear on Election Day.

Drugs, once thought to be the scourge of a healthy society, are getting public recognition as a part of American life. Where drugs were on the ballot on Tuesday, they won handily.

New Jersey, South Dakota, Montana and Arizona joined 11 other states that had already legalized recreational marijuana. Mississippi and South Dakota made medical marijuana legal, bringing the total to 35.

The citizens of Washington, D.C., voted to decriminalize psilocybin, the organic compound active in psychedelic mushrooms. Oregon voters approved two drug-related initiatives. One decriminalized possession of small amounts of illegal drugs including heroin, cocaine and methamphetamines. (It did not make it legal to sell the drugs.) Another measure authorized the creation of a state program to license providers of psilocybin.

Election night represented a significant victory for three forces pushing for drug reform for different but interlocking reasons. There is the increasingly powerful cannabis industry. There are state governments struggling with budget shortfalls, hungry to fill coffers in the midst of a pandemic.

And then there are the reform advocates, who for decades have been saying that imprisonment, federal mandatory minimum sentences and prohibitive cash bail for drug charges ruin lives and communities, particularly those of Black Americans.

Decriminalization is popular, in part, because Americans believe that too many people are in jails and prisons, and also because Americans personally affected by the country’s continuing opioid crisis have been persuaded to see drugs as a public health issue.

The war on drugs has lost its political allure for many conservatives. John A. Boehner, the former Republican speaker of the House, was once a staunch opponent of marijuana legalization. He is now the chairman of the National Cannabis Roundtable, a lobbying group.

“When cannabis is on the ballot, it wins,” Mr. Boehner said of Tuesday’s results. “Even with hyper-partisanship everywhere else, people of all stripes agree about cannabis reform.”

So do businesspeople. “It’s not really a hippie peacenik substance anymore,” said Martin Lee, a drug historian and CBD information advocate. “It’s big business. Billions of dollars are involved with this.”

The money that cartels and drug companies found in illegal and unintended use of drugs has become attractive to many, given the substances’ growing medical and cultural legitimacy. Plant-based drugs, for example, are a growing category in the booming business of wellness.

Michael Pollan, the author of “How to Change Your Mind,” which focused on the cultural history and medicinal use of psychedelics, said that he believed there were two currents at work in Tuesday’s results: the public’s exhaustion with the drug war and the reframing of marijuana and psilocybin as medicines.

Now marijuana, psilocybin and MDMA (the scientific name for Ecstasy or Molly) are increasingly seen as good for you.

“The image of psychedelics was closely tied to the counterculture and Timothy Leary,” Mr. Pollan said. “Now, when people think about psychedelics, many of them think about psychotherapy. They think about healing.”

“Twenty years ago, no one thought a night like this would be possible,” said Kassandra Frederique, the executive director of the Drug Policy Alliance, which pushes for criminal justice reform on drugs. She called the passage of the measures, particularly in Montana and South Dakota, “a resounding mandate that it is time for us to end the drug war and that decriminalization is politically viable.”

In 1969, two years before the dawn of the drug war, 84 percent of Americans thought marijuana should be illegal, according to the Pew Research Center. By 2019, again according to Pew, 91 percent of Americans supported the legalization of marijuana, either for both medical and recreational use or solely for medical use.

Political opposition to marijuana has not disappeared entirely. Kevin Sabet, an adviser in the Office of National Drug Control Policy under three presidents who has fought against legalization, said that many of marijuana’s opponents had just gone underground.

Still, he said, they’re out there: “If you read my email inbox, you’d see all the messages of support.”

Emily Dufton, the author of “Grass Roots: The Rise and Fall and Rise of Marijuana in America,” said that marijuana had always became more socially acceptable when other, more dangerous drugs began to concern the public.

Crack cocaine, which became a focus of the media in the mid-1980s — but whose impacts were overblown and whose policing was racist — displaced worries about marijuana for many years.

And the opioid epidemic, which has killed hundreds of thousands of Americans — about 48,000 died from opioid overdoses in 2019 — has also helped contextualize marijuana as a significantly less dangerous drug. (On Thursday, The New York Times reported that three major drug distributors and a drug manufacturer were close to agreement on a billion dollar settlement with state and local governments for the companies’ role in the epidemic.)

“The cultural campaigns against pot can’t gain a foothold when opioids today, or crack in the 1980s, seemed so much scarier or more deadly,” Ms. Dufton said.

President Nixon started the war on drugs but it grew increasingly draconian during the Reagan administration. Nancy Reagan’s top priority was the antidrug campaign, which she pushed aggressively as her husband signed a series of punitive measures into law — measures shaped in part by Joseph R. Biden Jr., then a senator.

“We want you to help us create an outspoken intolerance for drug use,” Mrs. Reagan said in 1986. “For the sake of our children, I implore each of you to be unyielding and inflexible in your opposition to drugs.”

America’s airwaves were flooded with antidrug initiatives. An ad campaign that starred a man frying an egg and claiming “this is your brain on drugs” was introduced in 1987 and aired incessantly. Numerous animal mascots took up the cause of warning children about drugs and safety, including Daren the Lion, who educated children on drugs and bullying, and McGruff the Crime Dog, who taught children to open their hearts and minds to authority figures.

In 1986 Congress passed a law mandating severe prison sentences for users of crack, who were disproportionately Black. In 1989, with prison rates rising, 64 percent of Americans surveyed said that drug abuse was the most serious problem facing the United States.

The focus on crack meant that when pot returned to the headlines in the 1990s, it received comparatively cozy publicity. In 1996, California voters passed a measure allowing for the use of medical marijuana. Two years later, medical marijuana initiatives were approved by voters in four more states.

“The playbook in legalizing marijuana was, first, change its image from a recreational drug to a medicine,” Mr. Pollan said. “Once you’ve changed its image, you have a much easier time legalizing it for everybody.”

Vivien Azer, a managing director at Cowen, an investment and financial services company in New York, said in a note to investors on Wednesday that she expected the marijuana market to expand to more than $34 billion by 2025, given the success of the various ballot initiatives.

David Culver, a vice president at Canopy Growth Corporation who focuses on governmental relations — Mr. Boehner made millions as a board member of a marijuana investment firm bought by Canopy — said that his pitch to politicians mainly hinged on convincing them that the drug was a powerful tool electorally. It is, Mr. Culver believes, more a generational issue than a partisan one.

“It’s something that’s wildly accepted in the under-40 crowd,” he said. “It’s something that the under-40s will vote on as single-issue voters. It’s also becoming more and more popular with seniors.”

Psilocybin may be a tougher sell to some. But Mr. Pollan said that there was stronger research for the health benefits of psilocybin than for cannabis.

Supporters of the psilocybin measure passed in Oregon note that it will not turn psilocybin into a street drug, but instead will set up the state to regulate it as a medicine. Amanda Eilian, a partner at Able Partners, a venture capital firm that has invested in the future of psychedelics, said that Tuesday’s results would boost the legitimacy of the nascent industry.

“I do think you’ll see growth on investor side and the company formation side,” she said.

Even as public opinion has changed, law enforcement still aggressively polices the possession of drugs — even legal drugs — by Black people, who, according to an American Civil Liberties Union report released earlier this year, are more than 3.5 times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than white people. As of March of this year, 20 percent of the more than two million incarcerated people in the United States were imprisoned because of drug offenses. Many of those people have not been convicted of any crime, and are held in local jails after arrest.

Mr. Pollan noted that even as the war on drugs had receded, the federal government had introduced other powerful law enforcement measures, including the Patriot Act and the surveillance apparatus associated with the National Security Agency.

Amber Littlejohn, the executive director of the Minority Cannabis Business Association, said that it would be a mistake to presume that support for legalization meant that voters were ready to grapple with the damage done to Black and Latino communities by the war on drugs.

“Once the legalization happens and the money is on the table for large operators and the state, it becomes so hard to strike those bargains and to make sure there is enough that is done for the communities that have truly been harmed by prohibition,” she said.

As the tide turns, Ms. Littlejohn said, Black entrepreneurs are concerned that they will be shut out of the market. The struggle to share in the wealth coming from legalization is only just beginning.

If states are the laboratories of democracy, then, as Mr. Pollan put it, some of the measures passed on Tuesday will set up interesting experiments.

Neighboring states will watch as Montana and New Jersey create regional cannabis destinations to be envied, imitated or scorned; unlike some other states, Montana and New Jersey do not directly border states where marijuana is fully legal, so they could draw more customers from out of state (though it is illegal to bring marijuana into a state where it is criminal).

And it’s not entirely clear that marijuana is always the fiscal boost its champions say it is, even as cannabis tourism has helped states like California and Colorado. A state assessment of the financial impact of legalization in Montana, for example, showed that the state expected significant revenue — as much as $48 million a year in 2025 — but that its implementation costs would be nearly as high.

Policy wonks will assess the performance of Oregon’s health authority as it creates its program to license psilocybin distributors, an unusual function for a state department of health regardless of the drug in question. And Americans all over the country will note — warily or hopefully — what happens in Oregon, now that possession of all controlled substances has been decriminalized.

Adam Eidinger, an activist in Washington, D.C., who proposed the ballot measure that pushed to legalize marijuana there, was also the treasurer of the campaign to decriminalize psilocybin. (The campaign operated out of his house in the Kalorama neighborhood, home to the Obamas and Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump.)

Next year, Mr. Eidinger plans to campaign for an initiative in D.C. to decriminalize possession of all controlled substances, much like the one that passed in Oregon. “People want to end the drug war,” he said.

Mr. Sabet, the former White House drug policy adviser, did not expect the nation to follow in Oregon’s footsteps — at least not immediately.

“I don’t know if I’d put my money on America wanting to legalize heroin tomorrow,” he said.





No.8 article:
Authentic Gets ‘Emotional’ Breeders’ Cup Win for John Velazquez

Velazquez, a Hall of Famer, said getting to ride Authentic during this difficult year was “a gift from God.”

John Velazquez climbed aboard Authentic on Saturday afternoon with confidence as well as determination to make a vision come true. His mother-in-law told him she had a good feeling about the $6 million Breeders’ Cup Classic. He and his colt, she told him, were going to win a race that had eluded him 19 times before.

Velazquez is a Hall of Famer. In September, he won his third Kentucky Derby with Authentic. And sure, he wanted to add America’s richest race and the marquee event of horse racing’s season-ending championships to his résumé.

But that is not what took his breath away after he crossed the finish line nearly three lengths ahead of Improbable. Instead, he was thinking about Joan O’Brien, the mother of his wife, Leona. The O’Briens are racetrackers — Leo O’Brien was a longtime trainer on the New York circuit — and know their horses. Throughout the coronavirus pandemic, Joan O’Brien has been grinding through chemotherapy to treat cancer and keeping up both a smile and her hopes.

“She told me she had a feeling,” Velazquez said. “She has a great attitude. She inspired me to do this. With everything that has gone on and the problems with the family, getting to ride a horse like this is a gift from God.”

Velazquez and Authentic’s victory provided a rare grace note in a downbeat year for one of America’s oldest sports. In the spring, more than 30 people — trainers, veterinarians and others — were indicted on charges, brought by federal prosecutors, of doping horses. On Friday, in fact, prosecutors won additional indictments against two trainers at the center of the investigation: Jason Servis and Jorge Navarro.

It didn’t help on Saturday that Maximum Security, one of the horses involved in the doping cases, was in the Classic field. The horse, who crossed the finish line first in last year’s Kentucky Derby, was disqualified 22 minutes later when racing officials decided he had interfered with rivals.

This time, Maximum Security was in the barn of Bob Baffert, also the trainer of Authentic. Baffert has gained the enmity of rivals who see him as a cheater, their suspicions fueled by the 29 drug tests his horses failed over four decades, including four in the past six months.

The cases took months, if not years, to adjudicate and resulted mostly in modest fines or brief suspensions, as Baffert asserted he had done nothing wrong and blamed the results on environmental contamination or human error. Once more, horse racing’s leaders must defend a culture in which performance-enhancing and painkilling drugs, combined with lax state regulations, undermine the credibility of the sport and threaten the well-being of the animals who define it.

Earlier in the week, facing mounting criticism, Baffert pledged to be more vigilant.

“I am very aware of the several incidents this year concerning my horses and the impact it has had on my family, horse racing and me,” Baffert said in a statement. “I want to have a positive influence on the sport of horse racing. Horses have been my life and I owe everything to them and the tremendous sport in which I have been so fortunate to be involved.”

For Velazquez, Saturday was the 18th time that he had visited the winner’s circle after a Breeders’ Cup race. It was also the most important victory of a long, distinguished career.

“The older I get, the more emotional I get,” Velazquez said. “It worked out perfect. Bob said to take him to the lead so he doesn’t wander so much and keep his mind on running. It worked out. He did everything I wanted him to do.”

Authentic did everything that Joan O’Brien had envisioned a colt, and her son-in-law, would.





No.9 article:
Watch This Snowball Fight From 1897 for a Jolt of Pure Joy

Surviving 2020 has meant living, simultaneously, in two incompatible timelines. There is, on one hand, the relentlessness of the present moment. “Now! Now! Now! Now! Now!” 2020 screams in our faces, constantly, like a bullying mindfulness coach. And yet we can also feel ourselves being pulled out into the deep stretch of history. We are so clearly living through the worst chapters of a civics textbook. Even as we suffer, we know that our hyperventilations and breakdowns will be archived and studied by some patient people in a saner future. And so we feel displaced. We have become living fossils, ancient even to ourselves. Still, somehow, there is so much fresh pain.

Over the last month, as a coping mechanism, I have been watching the same viral video over and over and over. It is not a campaign ad or a supercut of triumphant congressional zingers. In fact, it is the opposite: a brief clip of old-timey French people pelting one another with snowballs. This is my favorite film of 2020 — a tiny masterpiece that perfectly distills not only our current mayhem but also, more profoundly, our baffling displacement in time.

The footage was captured in Lyon, in 1897, by the Lumière brothers, who were among the world’s first filmmakers. It was originally black and white, of course, and herky-jerky because of the low frame rate. But this snowball fight has recently been colorized and smoothed, and the result is shockingly modern.

The video shows 52 seconds of joyful carnage: a gaggle of antiquated French people hucking compacted snow at one another’s faces with terrifying ferocity. Although it’s hard to get an accurate head count in the chaos, there is something like 15 of them: men in suits and hats and women in long puffy sleeves, their skirts protected by aprons. The combatants start on either side of a stately tree-lined street, but soon they end up all scrambled together. It’s like one of those big battle scenes at the end of a superhero movie — a gracefully choreographed free-for-all, a ballet of annihilation. Fighters swivel and dodge and stoop down to reload; alliances form and disband; heads disappear in explosions of snow. Brave fighters suddenly fall.

If you watch the snowball fight over and over, as I will do for the rest of my life, certain characters begin to stand out.

Down in the bottom-left corner, a thick man with a strong black mustache fires a cheap shot: a wild fastball, from point-blank range, that barely misses its intended target, a slim man who is busy looking the other way. The slim man turns, cocks his left arm and wallops the big man on his thigh.

From that point forward, these two are locked in savage, jolly combat. They reload and pelt each other multiple times, until finally — overtaken, perhaps, by the homosocial energy crackling between them — the big man staggers forward and lunges to tackle the slim man like a bear attacking a deer. But once again he misses: The slim man sidesteps and, grinning, shoves the big man into the snow. The big man pops back up, like a mustachioed snow-zombie, and starts pelting the slim man again from behind.

My favorite character, and the closest the film has to a protagonist, is a man in a bowler hat and a coat so long it flaps around his legs like the cloak of a levitating wizard. He looks as if he has just stepped out of a bank meeting, and yet he abandons himself to this childish street warfare with eager glee.

While the other fighters stand more or less rooted in place, the man in the bowler covers a surprising amount of ground — he is a free agent, prancing around with lumbering lightness, entering and exiting clusters of people, galloping across the road, following his bliss, attacking willy-nilly with a funky sidearm toss. He seems to take as many shots as he gives, and by the end of the film his black coat is thoroughly dusted with white; you can see the snowballs’ impact blasts as clearly as bullet holes.

And then there is the bicycle. This is the peak moment of brutality, when the whole group loses its collective goddamn mind. Right from the start, you can see the cyclist coming: a small figure, growing larger every second, gliding smoothly on an angle toward the fray. Before he even reaches the crowd, he starts to take distant fire. And yet he is determined to ride on. When he arrives, all the warring factions turn to unite against him, unleashing a wickedly targeted cyclone. The cyclist takes hard shots to the arm, the face, the back, the neck. Still he pedals forward, hunching his back, spinning his long legs — a stoic hero, intent on gliding through the violence, determined to reach the safety of the other side.

But he can’t. The cyclist absorbs one blow too many. He collapses like a broken toy.

His legs fly up in the air; his hat lands upside down in the snow. Before he can even get up, the cyclist is pelted again, and someone tries to steal his bike — but the cyclist stands and rips it away, then hops back on, abandoning his hat, retreating, pedaling off the way he came, taking powdery sniper fire as he goes. It is an object lesson in futility, in noble intentions thwarted — one man’s vision destroyed by the sudden madness of a crowd.

Off in the middle distance, two men stand near a street lamp, watching the mayhem, never moving, like Beckett characters, thinking who knows what.

On an intellectual level, we all understand that historical people were basically just like us. All those stiff figures frozen in blurred photos and smoke-stained oil paintings — the endless parade of side-whiskers, small dogs, billowing dresses, baggy trousers. The ancestors who laid down our roads and built our houses and planted the trees whose leaves still clog our gutters. The mulched lives that made us possible. They lived, as we do, in the throbbing nerve-pocket of the now. They were anxious and unsure, bored and silly. Nothing that would happen in their lifetimes had happened yet. The ocean of time was crashing fresh waves, nonstop, against the rocks of their days. And like us they stood there, gasping in the cold spray, wondering what people of the past were like.

And yet it’s hard, across such wide gulfs of time, to really feel this connection. So to watch this snowball fight, to see these people so alive, is a precious gift of perspective. We are them. They are us. We, too, will disappear. We will become abstractions to be puzzled over by future people. That certainty, in the flux of 2020, feels anchoring. We are not unique. We move in the historical flow. The current moment will melt away like snow crust on a mustache.

In Lyon, this street from the snowball fight is still there. It still looks basically identical: the trees, the buildings. I am staring at it now on my computer screen, and in my mind I am already planning a trip, imagining a pilgrimage, in some unrecorded future.





No.10 article:
Robert Gottlieb on Dickensworld — the Great Novelist’s Grand Universe

THE MYSTERY OF CHARLES DICKENSBy A. N. Wilson

This year is the 150th anniversary of the death of Charles Dickens — Dickens, who as time goes by emerges ever more conclusively as England’s greatest novelist and the literary figure who has come to govern our sense of the Victorian era; to embody it, really. And who also happens, in all likelihood, to be the most popular novelist who ever lived. (Apologies to Agatha Christie.)

After he died, in 1870, his reputation — though not his popularity — dipped. Yes, he was a supreme entertainer, but the author of “A Christmas Carol” and “A Tale of Two Cities” couldn’t really be considered a serious writer in a world of Hardy and Meredith and Conrad and James. And other popular writers had come along and won large readerships — Conan Doyle, Rider Haggard and, of course, Kipling, the most talented of them all, whose reputation has fluctuated even more than Dickens’s, given his fatal identification with imperialism.

But, as these things happen, before the end of the century the tide had begun to turn. A reconsideration of Dickens by the impressive novelist and critic George Gissing, published in 1898, made large claims for his art, and then, in 1906, the prodigious young G. K. Chesterton (long before his “Father Brown” mysteries made him, too, a popular writer) published a reconsideration of such wit, sympathy and sheer brilliance that Dickens was back in play as a major literary force. Meanwhile, of course, the world had gone on reading him, happily ignorant that he was a has-been.

Chesterton celebrated him as the comic genius that he was, and as the creator of the greatest collection of unforgettable characters since Shakespeare. Pickwick (and his sidekick Sam Weller) and Fagin and Scrooge (boo!) and Miss Havisham and Little Nell (sob!) and Tiny Tim (more sobs) and Mr. Micawber and Mrs. Micawber — “Mr. Micawber (whom I will never desert)” — and creepy Uriah Heep and Sairey Gamp (and her imaginary friend, Mrs. Harris) and scores and scores of others were as familiar to a vast reading public around the world as, a decade post-Chesterton, Charlie Chaplin and Mary Pickford would be: recognized and cherished everywhere. Dickens may have remained even more popular in America than in Britain — in countless households like mine when I was growing up in the 1930s and 1940s, there was likely to be found a complete (inexpensive) set of his novels, alongside the inevitable Encyclopaedia Britannica. And he went on being widely read on the Continent, as well as in Russia, where he had exerted a profound influence on both Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky.

During the first half of the 20th century the critical perception of Dickens kept changing, as exemplified by a pair of magnificent essays that appeared in 1940: one by George Orwell and one by Edmund Wilson. (Lionel Trilling on “Little Dorrit” would follow.) Orwell, although naturally more concerned with Dickens’s political and social stances — Dickens, after all, was famous for his savage attacks on institutions like Parliament — was also responsive to the genius of the writing, while Wilson focused more on the emotional, or psychic, duality of Dickens’s vision of life. Both critics, however, writing 70 years after his death, were not merely proclaiming but assuming his greatness. “It is the purpose of this essay,” Wilson wrote, “to show that we may find in Dickens’s work today a complexity and a depth … an intellectual and artistic interest which makes Dickens loom very large in the whole perspective of the literature of the West.” Here is a judgment that would have bewildered the grandees of the not so distant Bloomsbury generation, authorities like E. M. Forster and Virginia Woolf, both of whom found Dickens characters of no psychological interest — although Woolf did confess to a weakness for “David Copperfield.” Indeed, she reluctantly acknowledged that “we remodel our psychological geography when we read Dickens.” 

Meanwhile, interest in Dickens’s life was growing. The standard biography, in three volumes, had been written shortly after his death by his lifelong intimate friend John Forster, who incorporated into it a fragment of an unpublished (and never completed) autobiographical narrative. These pages revealed to the world, and to his astonished family, that the traumatic episode in “David Copperfield” recounting how at the age of 10 David was sent to labor in a wine and spirits bottling warehouse was actually inspired by Dickens’s own story (at 12 he had been sent to work in a boot-blacking factory); that David’s sufferings of blasted pride and abject loneliness, and of despair at the loss of the kind of gentleman’s future for which he yearned, were in fact Dickens’s own sufferings. His parents and siblings were for some months rather comfortably immured in the Marshalsea debtors’ prison (which would become the background of “Little Dorrit”), but the boy Charles, all on his own, friendless, was boarded out with an unsympathetic landlady. “No words can express the secret agony of my soul … the deep remembrance of the sense I had of being utterly neglected and hopeless. … My whole nature was … penetrated with the grief and humiliation of such considerations.”

Since Forster, there have been many excellent biographies. Edgar Johnson’s scrupulously researched and compellingly written two-volume work of 1952 was, astonishingly, a Book-of-the-Month-Club selection, selling some 250,000 copies. Later came notable biographies by Fred Kaplan, Michael Slater and — longest, fullest and most impressive — Peter Ackroyd, whose achievement is marred only by his perverse determination, in the face of all the evidence (and common sense), to have us believe that Dickens and the young actress with whom he fell in love, Ellen (Nelly) Ternan, never consummated their relationship. They had met in 1857, when she was 18 and he was 45, and they were together whenever possible until his death, Dickens stowing her away in a series of hide-outs in both England and France. He had banished Catherine, his wife of 22 years and the mother of his 10 children, in a great public scandal of his own making.

Ternan, however, remained a well-guarded secret, although there were those (Forster and the older Dickens children among them) who were in the know — in fact, she was often with the family at Gad’s Hill, their home in Kent. But Dickens, his banished wife and his invisible mistress never wrote or spoke publicly about what had happened — unless you think that his placing Ternan’s name first among the beneficiaries in his will was a public statement. (Her story leaked out slowly until it was fully revealed in Claire Tomalin’s superb book “The Invisible Woman” — a more remarkable achievement than her later, and somewhat redundant, book on Dickens himself.)

In the last half-century, biographical approaches to Dickens have frequently focused on highly specific areas of his life and accomplishments — his relation to the theater, to crime, to charity — but the most trenchant work has been done in exploring his convoluted psyche. Dickens, not only in the 15 novels but in his marvelous journalism and unerring editorship of two immensely popular magazines, seemed to know and understand everything and everyone — except himself. He lacked not only a talent for self-knowledge but the impulse toward it: We can recognize today that the thrilling driven quality that animates both his writing and his progress through life served not only to conceal but to smother — in relentless, almost frantic activity — a profoundly conflicted nature. No matter how much he accomplished by day, no matter how many miles he strode through the streets of London at night, no matter that he was probably the most famous and beloved man in England, he could not escape the buried anguish of his early history or deal with the unresolved issues that were to explode in what we now casually term a midlife crisis but which had no such convenient label then.

The pain he inflicted on those around him was a devastation. “My father was like a madman,” his daughter Katey — his favorite child, and always very close to him — would reveal to a confidante decades later. “He did not care a damn what happened to any of us. Nothing could surpass the misery and unhappiness of our home.” This of a man who to his millions of readers stood for family life; who more or less invented Christmas as we know it; and for whom kindliness was the most cherished human virtue.

A.N. Wilson has been for many years one of England’s most formidable biographers, as well as an amazingly productive novelist — 23 novels under his belt, to match nearly the same number of nonfiction considerations of subjects ranging from Jesus and St. Paul to Milton, Darwin, Hitler, C. S. Lewis and the queen. (Along the way he spent seven years lecturing on medieval literature at Oxford.) His knowledge is wide, his writing fluent — one can only wonder why his name and reputation haven’t flourished here in America the way they have in his own country, where he is something of a Figure. Alas, I don’t believe that this is going to change with his latest book, “The Mystery of Charles Dickens,” which is appearing just in time for the Dickens anniversary. Here, to put it bluntly, is a highly peculiar biography — peculiar not for what it says about Dickens but for what it says about Wilson himself.

He is a strong presence throughout his book. We learn that as a young man teaching at Oxford, he would cycle past the house where Ellen Ternan spent many of her later years. “The fantasy question would flit in and out of my brain: What would it have been like to teach Nelly? She was the same age, wasn’t she, when she lived in that house as the undergraduates with whom I was about to read medieval poetry. Would I have fallen secretly in love with her, as Dickens did?” In London, he’s lived for more than 20 years in a house that overlooks the garden of 70 Gloucester Crescent, the house in which Catherine Dickens lived after her husband “dumped” her. (During the last dozen years of his life, she had only three brief communications from him. He did not go to see her, or write to her, when their son Walter died in India; he even left her name off Walter’s tombstone, as though he had been born of only one parent.) At one point Wilson informs us that as he is writing the page we are reading, he is looking down into the drawing room where Katey Dickens, having rushed to London from Gad’s Hill, informed her mother that Charles — still her husband, still loved by her — was dying, so that she would not hear the news from strangers.

Wilson has a number of persuasive ideas about Dickens, whom he sees as not only a conflicted personality but a tragic one, despite his genius for comedy. He gives us a Dickens whose novels “pulsate” with sexual feeling — sexual feeling, however, that is Dickens’s, not that of “Kate Nickleby, Dora Copperfield, Agnes Wickfield, Esther Summerson and the gallery of submissive sexless-seeming wifelets and nymphs and half-child-brides, who tiptoe through his pages.” Think, for instance, of Lucie Manette, the pallid heroine of “A Tale of Two Cities” whose outstanding (only?) characteristic is her magnificent golden hair. “Where,” Wilson justly asks, “is a Rosalind, or a Juliet, or a Hermione, or a Portia, or a Beatrice?” Only toward the end, in “Great Expectations” and “Our Mutual Friend,” do we find believable young women — Estella, in the former, Bella Wilfer and Lizzie Hexam, in the latter — who are neither blanks nor passive nor caricatures, although Lizzie, the uneducated daughter of a wharf rat who makes his living by plucking dead bodies from the Thames, speaks perfect English, which she is unlikely to have acquired while patrolling the river in search of corpses.

Nor do we find in the novels fulfilled mother-child relationships. There are parody mothers like the philanthropic Mrs. Pardiggle and Mrs. Jellyby in “Bleak House,” and cruel mothers like Mrs. Clennam in “Little Dorrit” and Mrs. Joe, Pip’s mother-substitute sister in “Great Expectations,” and selfish, self-absorbed mothers like Mrs. Nickleby, and absent mothers, like Edith Dombey and “Bleak House”’s Lady Dedlock, and dead mothers, like David Copperfield’s and Oliver Twist’s. There are, as well, a few benign mother-figures like Peggotty, David’s loving nurse, and his formidable Aunt Betsey Trotwood, and there are twisted mother-figures like Miss Havisham. But except among the poor, whom Dickens celebrates but with whom he never identifies, it would seem that he simply cannot imagine a mother he (and we) could love.

In a deeply probing book, “Dickens in Search of Himself” (1983), Gwen Watkins applies her knowledge of psychiatry to provide us with the key. The trauma from which Dickens could not recover and which he reimagined in book after book was not, as he needed to believe it was, his mother’s complicity in the boot-blacking nightmare but, far more basic, that he had never received from her what every child deserves: the feeling “that what he is, his self, is valuable and worthy of respect, and that he is loved because this self is lovable.” That self, Watkins suggests, “did its best to help him by sending up to his imagination those themes that recur so constantly in his novels: the death of a child, the empty heart, the double self, the murder of the self.”

Dickens’s mother, Elizabeth, appears to have been a bright, lively woman who loved to dance and was a wonderful mimic (like her son). She had taught little Charles his letters and numbers, she had done her best to steer him into a secure career through relatives and connections, and Forster mentions, although Dickens does not, that she visited him several times in the blacking factory. But none of that mattered: Through the years, Dickens came to appreciate his feckless Micawber-like father, but until Elizabeth’s death, only seven years before his own, he never overcame or tried to overcome the cold dislike that was the best he could do for the woman who had created what, Watkins reminds us, David Copperfield termed “a vacancy in my heart.”

Wilson begins “The Mystery of Charles Dickens” with Dickens’s death, and he is very focused on the final novel, the half-completed “Mystery of Edwin Drood,” whose central character, John Jasper, the choirmaster of “Cloisterham” cathedral, has presumably murdered Drood, who is his nephew. Jasper is in love with the standard Dickens ingénue, Rosa Bud, whom Drood is engaged to marry. Can it be an accident that as Dickens was approaching death — as he sensed he was — he created in Jasper the most psychically turbulent of all his protagonists, the one whose “divided self” is most tormentedly on display?

Jasper is not only a choirmaster, he is an opium addict, and we are taken into a macabre London opium den — the kind of place that Dickens and his great friend Wilkie Collins used to explore on their night crawls through London. In fact, in 1868 Dickens had serialized, in his periodical All the Year Round, Collins’s “The Moonstone,” the plot of which hangs on the use of laudanum, a tincture of opium. “The Mystery of Edwin Drood” may well be a projection of Dickens’s state of mind, yet I also see it as a failed attempt to outdo Collins at his own game. There are many characters and many (unlikely) twists to the plot, and the quality of the writing, as Wilson acknowledges, is uneven. (George Bernard Shaw called the novel “only a gesture by a man three-quarters dead.”) A sign of how internal pressures are rising to the surface is the name he gave the book’s heroine, Helena Landless. Nelly Ternan’s given name was Ellen Lawless.

“The Mystery of Charles Dickens” has judicious things to say about Dickens, but then, suddenly, Wilson veers into autobiography, as his own internal pressures rise to the surface. “I am looking once again at my 8- or 9-year-old self, painfully thin, my bottom and back covered in the bruises and welts inflicted by a sadist teacher, sitting in a classroom with 20 or so other little boys. In retrospect, it is hard to believe that these children are sitting there in the 1960s. John F. Kennedy is president of the United States, and the Beatles have told the world that ‘All You Need Is Love.’” (Actually, it will be a few years before the Beatles tell that to the world.)

“We had been taken away from our families aged 7,” he goes on, “and for the last few years had been living in what was in effect a concentration camp run by sexual perverts.” We hear “of the many occasions when I was thrashed, by a headmaster who was visibly masturbating, usually inside his trousers, but not always inside, as he did it.” We hear of enduring “persecution from the man’s wife and daughter”; of the torture of their “discovering your least-favorite dish, making you eat it until you vomited, and then making you eat the vomit”; of their “locking you in a cage and, after a few hours, assembling an audience of the other boys to wait until you wet yourself.”

Wilson’s professed justification for inflicting these horrifying recollections on us, his readers, is to propose that without the passages of Dickens the boys were given to read, “my spirit would have gone under. … I survived my own childhood traumas by realizing that my tormentors were not only figures of pure horror, but also that they were as comic as Wackford Squeers” — the schoolmaster of Dotheboys Hall in “Nicholas Nickleby” — “as grotesque as Fagin, though as cruel as Mr. Murdstone,” David Copperfield’s coldhearted stepfather. This all constitutes a brave and moving tribute to the genius of Charles Dickens, but surely it functions here more as therapy for A. N. Wilson than as revelation about his book’s ostensible subject.

A telling reflection of Wilson’s intense interest in, even identification with, Dickens emerges in his novel “The Vicar of Sorrows,” published more than 25 years ago — a very readable book, reminiscent of the solid old-fashioned fiction, even then outdated, of J. B. Priestley and minor Galsworthy. The vicar is a well-meaning, weak-willed man in his mid-40s, with a wife he can’t bear to look at or speak to. Into town comes an entrancing, free-spirited girl in her late teens, though unlike Dickens’s Nelly Ternan she’s a promising violinist, not actress. Falling desperately in love with her, the vicar abandons wife, daughter and vocation to follow her — to her bewilderment, his family’s despair and his own destruction. Unlike novelists who refigure their own tumultuous romantic history in their work, Wilson has kidnapped Dickens’s.

In his 1988 biography of Tolstoy, probably Wilson’s most admired book, Dickens plays a large role — not Dickens the man but Dickens the writer, and in particular “David Copperfield.” Tolstoy, and Wilson, are almost fixated on David’s passionate admiration for the handsome young villain Steerforth. Typical of Wilson at his most coolly astute is his verdict: “What happens in Dickens … is that rampant sexuality when seen from the male point of view is passionately attractive; but seen from the female point of view it is destructive. Copperfield adores Steerforth, and all in Steerforth which will cause the ‘ruin’ of Little Em’ly. But when Little Em’ly loses her purity, all readers are meant to agree that it would be better if the waters could close over above her head.” Think “Anna Karenina.”

“Tolstoy” is an impressive achievement that is flawed by a kind of slapdash writing whose flippant tone grates. “It was no skin off Tolstoy’s nose.” “Russia, as far as the Tolstoys were concerned, had had it.” “Tolstoy got it in the neck from all sides.” And there is confused history — Napoleon III is referred to as “writing in the shadow of his distinguished grandfather,” although he was Napoleon Bonaparte’s nephew, not grandson. (He was the grandson of the Empress Josephine.) But all this only reflects a kind of hurried carelessness — 50 or so books in 40-odd years! And whatever Wilson’s flaws, his understanding is so large that you frequently feel enlightened, as when he writes: “There is a sort of exhausted anachronism about the conclusion of ‘War and Peace.’ Pierre is not a man of 1812 preparing to grow into a man of 1825. He is much more a man of 1869, preparing to grow into he knows not what.”

The kind of carelessness that blemishes “Tolstoy” is also on display in “The Mystery of Charles Dickens.” And there is at least one serious error, the statement that Dickens forbade his and Catherine’s children to see her after she was banished. Katey Dickens made it very clear that this was not the case, although she did tell her friend and eventual biographer Gladys Storey that for almost two years after the separation, her father “would scarcely speak to [her] because she visited her mother.” Her sister, Mamie, did stay away — from first to last she was besotted with her father, and would never have gone against his will. But the oldest child, Charley, who at 21 was emancipated, chose to live with Catherine, not his father.

Perhaps the ugliest aspect of Dickens’s behavior toward the wife he had abandoned was his public imputation that she had been an unloving mother and that her children did not love her. (We remember who it was who had the unloving mother.) But Dickens at this point had lost all restraints, was unable to bear any real disagreement and was ruthless in expunging from his life those who stood by Catherine. His old and trusted friend Mrs. Lynn Linton said of him, “He was one of the kind to whom whims are laws, and self-control in contrary circumstances was simply an impossibility.” He would not, for instance, attend Charley’s wedding to his childhood sweetheart because her father, his onetime publisher, hadn’t proved ardent enough in his rejection of Catherine after the break. (As a result, Catherine was permitted to attend her firstborn’s wedding.)

As for Wilson’s judgments of the novels themselves, I can’t agree with him that “Drood” is the “most ambitious” of them, “the one that killed him,” or that “Hard Times” is a novel of “overpowering greatness” along with “Bleak House” and “Little Dorrit.” But, yes, “Our Mutual Friend” is a wonderful book, and “Great Expectations” is “perhaps … the apogee” of Dickens’s achievement, although I would eliminate the “perhaps.” “It is the only novel,” Wilson writes, “in which there is no wasted paragraph, no waffle, no padding, no dud or redundant characters and no illustrations. It did not need illustrations because it is the most devastating and the most inward of all his psychodramas. Every page hits you like a heart attack.” Well, maybe not, but in this case I can cut Wilson some slack.

The crucial thing in considering Dickens is deciding how best to read him. If we apply the usual standards by which we judge novels — unity of tone and believability of character and story, for instance — he all too often stumbles. When we read “Nicholas Nickleby,” for instance, written when Dickens was at the height of his dazzling early powers, do we really care just how villainous Uncle Ralph arrives at his downfall, or whom Nicholas and his sister, Kate, end up marrying? Can we even remember? What we remember is the great cascade of unlikely characters who erupt from Dickens’s imagination — the monstrous Squeers family, the irrepressible Crummles theater troupe featuring the lovely Miss Snevellici and the Infant Phenomenon, the too-good-to-be-true Cheeryble brothers, the Mantolinis, Miss La Creevy, Newman Noggs and that slander of Dickens’s mother, the slothful and muddle-headed Mrs. Nickleby. But all these threads, plus the undoing of Dotheboys Hall, had to be tied up, which is why “Nicholas Nickleby” eventually succumbs to its plot — or plots. Although the plot of “A Tale of Two Cities” is managed perfectly, I find that despite its worked-up excitements — the terrifying Madame Defarge relentlessly knitting as the guillotine goes about its work — the book remains hermetic and resistible. As for “The Pickwick Papers,” the masterpiece that made him, overnight, the most famous writer in England, it has no plot at all.

One way to read Dickens is to think of his books, with obvious exceptions, as being set in one great universe or mythology — Dickensworld. Chesterton put it this way: “You cannot discuss whether ‘Nicholas Nickleby’ is a good novel, or whether ‘Our Mutual Friend’ is a bad novel. They are simply lengths cut from the flowing and mixed substance called Dickens.” Chesterton points to a secondary character called Mr. Toots in “Dombey and Son”: “The very parasites that live on him despise him. But Dickens does not despise him. … Without altering one fact … he makes us not only like, but love, not only love, but reverence this little dunce and cad. The power to do this is a power truly and literally to be called divine. For this is the very wholesome point. Dickens does not alter Toots in any vital point. The thing he does alter is us.” And yet although Toots is painstakingly woven into the plot of “Dombey,” Dickens could just as easily have deployed him in “Martin Chuzzlewit” or “Little Dorrit” or some other corner of Dickensworld.

This is true as well of minor characters who have nothing whatsoever to do with the stories they purportedly serve but whom we can never forget. And who would want to forget, say, “Mr. F’s Aunt,” whose outbursts of demented rage at poor Arthur Clennam in “Little Dorrit” make no sense at all. “There’s milestones on the Dover Road!” “When we lived at Henley, Barnes’s gander was stole by tinkers.” “You can’t make a head and brains out of a brass knob with nothing in it. You couldn’t do it when your Uncle George was living; much less when he’s dead.” Mr. F’s Aunt’s malign non sequiturs would be immortal in whatever book Dickens had chosen to insert them.

One hundred and fifty years after his death, Dickens is as omnipresent as ever. Only Shakespeare is more so. (As Shaw wrote to Katey Dickens in 1903, “All I can tell you is that your father was neither a storyteller like Scott, nor a tittle-tattler like Thackeray: He was really a perplexed and amused observer like Shakespeare.”) “Dickensian” is an adjective constantly in use — all too often inappropriately, like “Kafkaesque.” In a single week in August this newspaper reviewed a new film version of “David Copperfield,” ran a feature story about it, told us that a wall of hot, smoky air smacked Bay Area residents in the face “as if they were opening the cast-iron door of a furnace in a Dickens novel,” and gave us as a crossword-puzzle clue “Dickensian setting.” (Answer: slum.) Not yet available in America, the latest novel by the Australian writer Thomas Keneally (“Schindler’s List”) is called “The Dickens Boy” — the story of Plorn, the youngest, weakest and saddest of the Dickens children, whom Dickens adored and then, when he was 16, packed off, alone, to Australia, to make his way.

The new Copperfield movie can’t really compete with the classic version from the 1930s — the one with W. C. Fields as Micawber and Basil Rathbone as Murdstone — or with such other terrific Dickens films as David Lean’s magnificent “Great Expectations” and “Oliver Twist” (Alec Guinness is Fagin) or “A Tale of Two Cities” (Ronald Colman, forgoing his mustache, as Sydney Carton) or, if you like, “Oliver!” It is a commonplace of Dickens criticism to say that he is the most cinematic of novelists. But then he is also the most readable.

The greatest geniuses are inexplicable, but they share an amazing fecundity of invention. Shakespeare, Mozart, Bach, Rembrandt, Balanchine — concoct your own list — leave you feeling that if they hadn’t chosen to produce these masterpieces, they could just as easily have chosen to produce those. 

How to begin comprehending such a phenomenon? Alas, not through A. N. Wilson’s “Mystery of Charles Dickens.” John Carey’s “The Violent Effigy” provides far more penetrating criticism. Ackroyd gives us the full life. Lillian Nayder’s “The Other Dickens” triumphantly rescues Catherine Dickens from the slanders her husband inflicted on her. And, of course, the novels themselves endlessly evoke him. Once again Chesterton gets to the heart of things: “The power which he proceeded at once to exhibit was the one power in letters which literally cannot be imitated, the primary inexhaustible creative energy, the enormous prodigality of genius … an incomparable hunger and pleasure for the vitality and the variety, for the infinite eccentricity of existence.”





No.11 article:
Stephen Miller Will Have Some Free Time Soon

What will it mean if Trump is no longer president, and I’m no longer undocumented?

NEW HAVEN, Conn. — First, you must know about the birds. The birds are important. My partner and I, we feed birds in our neighborhood. I have a special fondness for the birds that the garden stores that sell marble bird baths consider pests — crows, blackbirds, ravens, blue jays, grackles, starlings. For a while, the crows behind my house brought me gifts, but I felt weird about it. I wasn’t interested in the transaction. I wanted them to trust me. I wanted to be loved.

Then the crows left for months. When they returned, they brought news. A crow appeared, and I needed emergency oral surgery. A crow appeared, and I was longlisted for an award. A crow appeared, and a teenager I love revealed that her boyfriend abused her. And so on.

This past Saturday, my partner saw something in a tree. A group of lime-green parrots, monk parrots, being boisterous. She thought she was crazy. She pointed them out to a few runners, who all thought they were crazy, too. That night, I got a notice from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. My permanent residency had been granted. It was three days before the election. I held my breath. The card could take months to arrive.

The birds appeared Thursday morning, and I got my green card in the evening mail. I am no longer undocumented.

James Baldwin once said, “What white people have to do is try to find out in their own hearts why it was necessary to have a [Negro] in the first place, because I’m not a [Negro], I’m a man, but if you think I’m a [Negro] it means you need it.” I understand the context of this quote in the Black struggle, but it also had meaning for me as an undocumented immigrant. I have noticed that when people try to be nice, they often call immigrants “undocumented laborers.” I think it’s a funny little thing to be hated for your essence and loved for the dialectical small of your back and the apparent jointlessness of your hands.

Over the past four years, undocumented immigrants have been vilified by the right in boring and classically genocidal ways. Donald Trump used immigrants to drum up support, telling people we were coming in caravans to sell them drugs, take their jobs and inspire their children to tattoo their faces. Under his administration, Immigration and Customs Enforcement rounded up law-abiding immigrants who’d lived here for years. They lost migrant children. Does that make an impression on you? Small children have, in effect, been disappeared. Women in detention facilities say they have been forcibly sterilized.

As I wrote this, and the votes came in, and it looked more and more likely that President Trump would lose, I still plucked my own feathers out, like every domesticated parrot, because I feel lonely in this country. Because there is a belief, even on the left, that because we chose to come here, we had agency in our own desecration. That we carried our own crosses to the hill of Golgotha, wrists bound by nothing but promises of a full night’s sleep, a cut of meat, freshly sharpened pencils for our children, and so we have smaller claims to justice.

Latinx kids of immigrants always want to do this thing where we bond by talking about our ancestors and about not being from here, and aside from thinking this is a false binary and also not very interesting, I just never got it. We could be everywhere and nowhere at the same time. When I lie down in my bed, having taken a beta blocker for my panic attacks, I feel my heart slow down, I can hear it beat with some effort in my neck, and I feel so ardently in New Haven, so fully a weight on the bed in the home I have built with my partner, a home where the young people in our life who are queer, Black, Indigenous, Latinx, undocumented or mentally ill know they are loved. I don’t think about the First World. I don’t think about America. I know where I am and to whom I belong.

But I also feel nowhere. The past four years have turned me into a writer of immigration, into a symbol of the undocumented migrant. And now I am not that. America really liked me as an undocumented immigrant. James Baldwin would say it needed me. I’m not the sort of writer who gets many death threats. I get a lot of mail from men who hoped I’d see salvation implied by their Anglophone surname and women who wanted a blood transfusion from me, for all that cortisol and adrenaline. Who will I be to America now, a green card holder under a Joe Biden presidency? Will I start feeling safe while jaywalking? Will I ever stop feeling terror at the thought of joining a protest? Will I ever smoke a joint?

I am maybe one of five undocumented immigrants who have a big platform, and certainly I am the least emotionally stable among them, and all I wanted this summer, as I mourned the deaths of day laborers and poor Latinos I knew in New York, and made lists of why I should remain alive, was for one person to see our systematic erasure through camps and cages and a novel virus as part of the greatest civil rights movement of our generation. I fell backward into a field of imagined lilies, chrysanthemums, orchids and other funerary flowers, and tried to write about very small things: how we are people, how some of us love pit bulls and some of us love very burned potatoes, how we are as diverse as the beetle populations on this continent, which some say is ours and some say is not ours and some say I don’t care, I’m here.

The election results weren’t in yet when I started writing this. But we saw the parrots.

Jonathan Franzen, the novelist and birder, told me it’s “a mistake to inflict ourselves on animals anthropomorphically, rather than respecting their otherness and autonomy.” He explains: “It implies that we’re the measure of all things, which amounts to a further subjugation of them. More generally, I think superstition is a disservice to reality — it inflates the importance of the human observer while relegating reality to the role of bringing meaning to him or her. Are we really so important that animals feel compelled to gather together to create omens for us?”

I am. I think I’m that important. Partly because my bloodline is largely Indigenous and birds have been messengers for us for a long time, and partly because I am very mentally ill. There is a blue jay perched on a branch outside the window by my desk as I write this. He is enthusiastically bashing a peanut to smithereens on the branch, as I used to punch walls. The blue jay is beautiful, maybe saying something, maybe something nothing. But the only thing on my mind is that Stephen Miller will have some free time soon, and I suggest he pick up birding.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.





No.12 article:
Literature as ‘Sweet and Useful’ and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

In Martin Amis’s By the Book interview (Oct. 25), Amis ascribes to the 17th-century poet laureate John Dryden the idea that literature must delight in order to instruct.

While it’s good to see Dryden’s name in the Book Review, I feel compelled to point out that this pairing, often referred to with the Latin words dulce and utile — the sweet and the useful — was popularized by the poet Horace in or around the year 15 B.C. It was not a particularly new idea when Horace referred to it in his “Ars Poetica.”

The film adaptation of P. L. Travers’s “Mary Poppins” put it this way: “A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down.”

Deborah J. Knuth Klenck Hamilton, N.Y.

The writer is a professor emerita of English at Colgate University.

♦

To the Editor:

In his By the Book interview, Amis singles out Anthony Trollope’s “The Way We Live Now” as the last great book he read. What’s remarkable about this is how invisible the very flagrant anti-Semitism of this novel seems to be. Amis goes so far as to term it “universally inclusive,” as implied by its title.

It’s actually far from universally inclusive for readers who are at all sensitized to anti-Semitic stereotypes. This is not noted as a reflection of Amis’s attitude, or even to denigrate the merits of Trollope’s novel from a purely literary perspective. What it does reflect is how deeply anti-Semitic stereotypes are interwoven into our culture. Like the air we breathe it’s just there, unnoticed.

Maybe at a time of increased consciousness of racial stereotypes, this too needs to change.

David Friedman St. James, N.Y.

♦

To the Editor:

Like Martin Amis, I earnestly celebrate Herman Melville and “Billy Budd.” Having read “Moby-Dick” in the late 1970s in medical school, I got hooked on Melville, and read all of his short stories (and “Moby-Dick”) twice.

Living in the Boston area, I was able to participate in the New Bedford Whaling Museum’s annual “Moby-Dick” marathon, and made a pilgrimage to the author’s home in Pittsfield, Mass.

I, too, was late to discover “Billy Budd” 10 years ago, when it was assigned as my son’s high school summer reading.

Amis alludes to Budd’s noble salute, “God bless Captain Vere!” But the words “fated boy,” spoken by Captain Vere after John Claggart’s death, have stayed with me as an alternate title.

Angela E. Lin Westwood, Mass.

Fiction vs. FactionTo the Editor:

There was a sentence that really stood out to me in Jia Lynn Yang’s review of James A. Morone’s book “Republic of Wrath” (Oct. 18). It demonstrates a real command of good writing.

“These days, millions of Americans appear quite willing to jeopardize their own well-being to prove their factional bona fides.”

In my quick read I read “fictional bona fides.” Factional works just as well.

Edwin Myers Tybee Island, Ga.







No.13 article:
Kylie Minogue Swoons for Prince (and Ennio Morricone)

The Australian dance-pop institution ran down her list of cultural must-haves as she prepared to release her 15th album, “Disco.”

“Did you boogie?”

That’s the question Kylie Minogue will likely ask if she knows that you’ve listened to her new album, “Disco.”

The Australian pop star’s 15th album, due Friday, caps a year filled with dance-pop releases from Dua Lipa, Doja Cat, Jessie Ware, Lady Gaga and the Weeknd, but for Minogue, disco is nothing new. For more than three decades, she’s made glittering tracks with pulsing beats — “I Should Be So Lucky&quot; (1987), “Better the Devil You Know” (1990), “Can’t Get You Out of My Head” (2001), “All the Lovers” (2010). This time around, she hopes to help people escape at a moment when “truth is stranger than fiction,” she said on a recent video call.

Speaking from the lounge in her London home, Minogue talked about transforming part of that room into a studio during quarantine by hanging duvets and blankets (and a disco ball, of course). She used an old microphone and GarageBand to record demos in a space that she said resembled what children might create when camping out in a living room. But it got the job done.

“I just felt, if kids are doing this — making albums in their bedroom — then, come on, Minogue, you’ve got to be able to do this,” she said.

Minogue talked about her cultural must-haves, which she noted will likely change over time. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

1. “Cinema Paradiso”

You know when you need a good cry, but you actually don’t have a great reason, but you might benefit from just letting a little bit out? Shut your eyes and play that theme song. Along with so much of Ennio Morricone’s work, it’s transcendent.

I was lucky enough to see one of Morricone’s last performances last year. I was preparing my tour dates and the one stipulation was that I couldn’t be doing a show on the night he was performing in London. I didn’t think I would get the chance to see him conducting an orchestra, the chance to hear that live, and I did.

2. Jane Fonda

I paid homage to her and Barbarella with my video for “Put Yourself in My Place” — one of the more agonizing videos I’ve done, where I was trying to be weightless. Luckily, I was young and fit! In my early 20s, when I was discovering my sexuality, I had these icons of glamour and, I suppose, femininity, but now I understand with some age and experience that wasn’t all it was cracked up to be. But I still looked up to it.

I devoured her incredible book, “My Life So Far.” I’m 52, so I’ve been through a bit of stuff myself, but as her book explains, she’s still learning. She’s still curious. She’s still discovering herself. I find that so reassuring.

3. Prince

My 14-year-old hormones are just knocking on the door right now. I was in high school and my girlfriends and I would listen to “Purple Rain” all the time. I remember going on a drive with my parents. I begged them to put the Prince cassette on in the car and when it got to “Darling Nikki,” which talks about Nikki masturbating with a magazine, I remember it didn’t sit well with my dad.

Then cut to ’92 when he did a concert at Earl’s Court in London. I was invited backstage afterward and I got to meet him. I don’t know where I had the gumption or guts to say or how I even said it, but something like, “I’m working on a new album and wonder if you would ever want to work together.”

His driver came over and delivered a cassette with Prince singing this song called “Babydoll,” which was an adaptation of the lyrics that I sent him. It was one of those home-alone moments where you just want to scream and jump and hug someone. I went to Minneapolis, hung out for a few days and that was that. I remember being in his car and we just went for a spin. We never got to make music together.

4. “Rage” Television Show

“Rage” is such an Aussie thing. Think of your first nights when you might be out really late or you might wake up with a little hangover or something that makes you really feel like you’re not a kid at school anymore. You would get home and put “Rage” on. It was kind of like this rite of passage because it would play from Friday night through Sunday. It always had cool music.

5. Paris

I’ve had some of the most romantic adventures in Paris. I’ve had some trying times. I did my chemotherapy in Paris. I performed the only jazz set I’ve ever performed in my life in Paris at Café de Flore, which is one of my favorite places ever. I was a young woman there. I found that I could be invisible there compared to other places. This was a long time ago, before mobile phones. I could take to the streets, get my metro ticket, go where I wanted to go.

6. Arts Center Melbourne

I have a lot of clothes and costumes from over the years, and back in 2004 my family and I agreed that we would approach the Arts Center Melbourne to see if they were interested in having this stuff. They were, so I donated everything. If I hit tough times, I’ve got nothing to sell. It was really a great idea and they did the first exhibition of my clothes in 2005.

They had to have the mannequins made really tiny — I’m 5 foot and a whisper. I remember seeing one costume — this black-winged feather headdress — and I just kind of marched straight over to it because it wasn’t where I thought it should be, and there was this audible gasp because you couldn’t handle things without gloves and so on. That was the moment I realized “these really are not mine anymore.” Touring costumes are workers. They’re part of the team. Now they’re in a in a lovely retirement center in my hometown.

7. Melbourne Coffee

A couple of years back, I flew from London to Melbourne. My brother picked me up from the airport, which is a real thrill. We got coffee and I sipped it and said, “That’s good coffee” and my brother said, “Yeah, it’s Melbourne coffee,” and that was it. There’s this standard where it’s strong enough, but it’s not too bitter. It’s just great. On top of that, if I’m having a coffee in Melbourne, that means I’m home.

8. Road Cases

Road cases are my home away from home. As soon as I see them at rehearsals, I get that, “Ooh we’re going on tour, this is happening” feeling. I love being on tour. I love having that family atmosphere and working with people who’ve all got their own skills. There’s an admiration for what everyone does, whether you’re a lighting technician, you’re in catering, you’re a dancer, you’re the monitor guy or woman. The way everyone has to work together. I always look forward to it, so my road cases are like my friends.

I just realized I might sound like Steve Martin in “The Lonely Guy,” but it’s not just lonely me and my road cases. The really important stuff is in there, like costumes, but also my comforts. I had my road cases made in a soft pink color. I wanted ones that would stand out and be mine.

9. Red Hermès Ferronnerie Scarf

I don’t know where I got this or when I got it. I just know it’s mostly with me. If this scarf could talk, it would have a few stories. It has been around my neck. It has been around my head. When you’ve got a bag without straps you’re tired of carrying, it becomes a bag strap. It has been a belt.

A few years ago, my girlfriends and I were on a Greek island. My friend was brave enough to get on a motorbike and drive it. She had this tiny little strappy low-back dress on, and she was about to take off when I said, like your mother would, “Wait, wait, take this!” and I put it on her like a harness. When we were on the road, I was on the bike behind her and I could just see the scarf flapping in the breeze and it was such a beautiful color in that sunlight. It’s one of those things that I probably will lose one day, but I’d be very sorry to see it go.

10. Audiobooks and Scrabble

I’m not a great sleeper, so I like to be able to listen to an audiobook. I’m floating between Deepak Chopra and one that I really enjoy called “Victorian London” by Liza Picard, narrated by Anton Lesser. I do love a bit of a bit of a period story. I also play Scrabble, except I only like to play with strangers. I don’t want my friends knowing I’m playing Scrabble.





No.14 article:
Denial, and Resignation, From Trump and a Handful of Aides

Aides said the president had no plans to immediately deliver the kind of concession speech that has become traditional in past elections, and his campaign vowed to continue waging its legal battle across the country.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s motorcade was just pulling into the Trump National Golf Club in suburban Virginia on Saturday morning when news organizations ended days of waiting and declared that he had lost the presidency to Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Aides called Mr. Trump to let him know that their predictions over the past several days had come true: Every major news outlet had projected Mr. Biden to be the winner. But the president — who an hour earlier had said on Twitter that “I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT!” — was not surprised, they said. And he did not change his plans to go ahead with legal challenges to the election results that several of his own advisers warned him were long shots at best, or to play golf.

The aides said Mr. Trump had no plans to immediately deliver the kind of concession speech that has become traditional in past presidential elections, and his campaign vowed to continue waging the legal battle across the country. In a statement issued while he was still on the golf course, Mr. Trump said Mr. Biden was trying to “falsely pose” as the winner.

“The simple fact is this election is far from over,” the president said, “Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated.”

Mr. Trump’s advisers said the president has refused to acknowledge that he has lost, maintaining his baseless accusation that Democrats had stolen the election.

But they do not believe he will try in any way to block Mr. Biden from taking office, and said that if he has not delivered a formal concession speech by the time he departs, pressure may mount on his Republican allies, family members and friends to convince him that he must give in to the inevitable and let the American people know that he accepts their judgment.

Even some of Mr. Trump’s oldest advisers, like former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, have said publicly that he needed to have actual evidence to make the claims he has been making about the election.

“This kind of thing, all it does is inflame without informing. And we cannot permit inflammation without information,” Mr. Christie said on ABC News on Thursday night.

Now that Mr. Biden has been declared the winner, White House advisers must confront the reality that Mr. Trump will be a lame-duck president for the next two and a half months.

Since early Wednesday morning, when Mr. Trump angrily declared the election to be a “fraud” on the public, he has split his time between the Oval Office and the presidential residence, watching television coverage and brooding.

Besides his children, he has spoken by phone and at the White House with a coterie of advisers, including the former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, his campaign manager, Bill Stepien, his deputy campaign manager, Justin Clark, his adviser Hope Hicks, and Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee.

Vice President Mike Pence spent part of Friday in the Oval Office with Mr. Trump, but the president’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, who tested positive for the coronavirus the day after the election, has been working remotely on the campaign’s current legal challenges.

Mr. Trump’s advisers did succeed in persuading Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, to stand down from some of his public allegations about fraud. But Mr. Giuliani appealed to Mr. Trump, and the president signed off on his holding a news conference in Philadelphia that started just after news outlets called the presidential race for Mr. Biden.

Some aides were candid with Mr. Trump that there was not much of a path forward, even though they said they would continue on. Only a few had doubted that Mr. Biden was likely to win, among them the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, people who spoke with Mr. Trump said.

As he played golf on Saturday, aides said, Mr. Trump was surprisingly calm, given the news he had received when he arrived at the club.

But that was before he watched television coverage of Mr. Biden’s victory. Nearly two hours after an uneventful return to the White House, Mr. Trump again began posting angry, and false, tweets insisting that he had won the election and complaining that “MILLIONS OF MAIL-IN BALLOTS WERE SENT TO PEOPLE WHO NEVER ASKED FOR THEM!”

Several Trump advisers said that while they now wanted to give the president space to process the loss, they were exhausted after four years of tumult, and were eager for clarity about what would come next.

Some aides began to focus on what they believed Mr. Trump could cite as accomplishments even in defeat, including the fact that he received the second-most votes in American history and that he drew a new batch of voters into the Republican Party.

Confined almost entirely to the White House since Election Day, Mr. Trump is eager to get out of Washington, and after musing about holding a rally this week, aides said he was likely to travel to his private club, Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla., instead. But the president has no intention of ending the boisterous demonstrations of support that he has held throughout his presidency and that always seem to energize him.

It was unclear whether Mr. Trump would follow tradition and invite Mr. Biden to the White House for a symbolic meeting like the one he had with President Barack Obama during his own transition four years ago. It is also tradition for the departing president to attend the inauguration of his successor, but Mr. Trump has ignored many of the norms of the office.

Mr. Biden, as a former vice president, does not require the tour of the White House that Mr. Trump did. Such a meeting would send a signal that could help reduce the anger of the president’s supporters over his defeat — but it would be a gesture strikingly out of character for a president who has so often sought to inflame passions.

Democrats are concerned that an array of steps traditionally involved in a presidential transition could be ignored or disrupted by Trump administration officials. But the initial stages of the transition have begun without any disruptions.

A top White House adviser, Chris Liddell, has been leading transition planning for the Trump administration, but Mr. Trump has not been involved, one White House official said, in part because of his superstitions about planning before an election, and in part because officials feared he would try to meddle with them.

As Mr. Trump’s motorcade arrived back at the White House Saturday afternoon, passing crowds of Biden supporters applauding the president’s ouster, Mr. Trump’s aides were still in varying degrees of shock about the outcome of a race that many had believed he would win.

Some of those aides had already started to leave in anticipation of a loss. Ja’Ron Smith, the most senior Black official in the West Wing and a deputy assistant to the president, sent an email to colleagues on Friday saying that he was departing. One of his colleagues said it had been long planned, but others saw it as the beginning of a slow exodus as Inauguration Day draws closer.

Mr. Trump, for his part, showed no sign of ending his hunt for allegations of fraud that could lend credence to lawsuits he wants filed in a number of states. A campaign official said that Mr. Stepien and Mr. Kushner had David Bossie, the head of the conservative group Citizens United and a longtime Trump ally, to lead efforts to contest vote counts in several states.

Some of the president’s allies in the Senate said they understood why he felt entrenched.

“I don’t blame him one bit for fighting for every single vote,” said Senator Kevin Cramer, Republican of North Dakota.

Some of the president’s campaign donors disagreed. “President Trump should go against his nature and call off the legal dogs,” said Dan Eberhart, a Trump supporter and donor, who called Mr. Biden’s victory “unfortunate.”

But even before he leaves the White House, one of Mr. Trump’s most powerful forms of communication has been diminished. Twitter has grown increasingly aggressive about flagging the president’s false statements about “illegal ballots” and demands that local state election officials stop counting ballots prematurely.

A spokesman for Twitter, Nick Pacilio, said in a statement that the company had flagged the president’s tweets “for making potentially misleading claims about an election.”

“This action is in line with our civic integrity policy,” the statement continued, “and as is standard with this warning, we will significantly restrict engagements on these tweets.”





No.15 article:
A ‘Wicked’ Challenge and Other Tough Questions for Ben Brantley

The New York Times theater critic, who stepped down after 27 years, recently responded to readers, including one hungry for a do-over on his review of a blockbuster musical.

I’m 15 years old and here is my question: When was the moment you fully trusted yourself and your opinions as a critic? ELLA BRITTON, Brooklyn

I don’t think I would have been hired at The Times if I hadn’t had that confidence from the beginning. Such self-trust is among the most essential traits in a critic’s toolbox. I came from a family that insisted we be able to explain and justify our opinions, and that sort of mental discipline has served me well. And because I loved theater so much from early childhood, and spent so much time thinking about it, writing about it with conviction came naturally to me.

How have you kept any openness to what you see, and kept a love for the theater, when you’ve had to go — per contract — so often? BILL IRWIN, New York

I’m lucky. Watching plays has never felt like a chore for me. Partly this is because I’m aware that the chemistry of a play is so different with each performance, that each night is in a way a new proposition in which things could potentially go very right or very wrong. I’ve never stopped feeling that excitement. When I fell in love with the theater, it was for keeps.

Can you point to a specific play or production that your forceful aesthetic advocacy brought into existence? PATRICK WHITE, Albany, N.Y.

I’ve always felt my role was responsive and interpretive, not instructive, and I kept a deliberate distance from the artists I reviewed. Of course, there have been small productions that have gone on to larger and longer lives because of Times reviews. And it has been one of the great pleasures of my tenure to try to make a case for — to translate — the work of theater artists who might initially seem off-putting or obscure. (I love writing about such experimental pioneers as the Wooster Group, Richard Maxwell, Suzan-Lori Parks and Jackie Sibblies Drury.) But I doubt any playwright or director has conceived a project with my aesthetic in mind.

How does one stay open to new approaches when your sense of what is good may have solidified after seeing so many shows? SAANYA and DHRUV JAIN, Washington, D.C.

I think it’s precisely because you see so many shows that you’re receptive to being jolted by what’s truly new. When a playwright or director comes along working in an original vocabulary, your ears start to tingle. You’re hearing something different, something that doesn’t sound like any of the customary variations on a theme that make up at least 90 percent of your theatergoing life. And because truly original work is unsettling, you focus on it more intently.

Why do you think people don’t care about American theater heritage? GAIL ANN COHEN, St. Petersburg, Fla.

I was fascinated by the cultures of earlier generations when I was growing up. Surely, these types still exist. And they have such a pool of visuals to draw from now — the memory of YouTube stretches way back. It’s true, though, that people tend to want to stay in their own grooves of time these days. In the meantime, you have institutions like the Mint Theater Company in New York, which is devoted to overlooked plays of other times. So there are a few torchbearers around.

Over your New York Times career, what was the biggest innovation in a single Broadway show? JOHN McCAWLEY, Horsham, Pa.

I suppose the short answer is “Hamilton.” Lin-Manuel Miranda’s portrait in song of an ambition-driven founding father stretched the sense of what a mainstream musical could be in its language (both musical and spoken), tempo, soliloquizing and casting. And yet, it still appeals on the level of a classic Broadway musical. It’s satisfying in that deeply emotional way.

Are you now willing to admit that your initial appraisal of “Wicked” was way off target? ELLIOTT KAHN, Pueblo, Colo.

I can only write about my personal experience of a show. And while there were elements of “Wicked” I admired, particularly its star performances, I was clearly not its target audience. Nor, it would seem, was it beloved by many other daily reviewers when it opened.  I am delighted “Wicked” found such an enthusiastic audience, especially among young people.

Is “Wicked” analogous to Stravinsky’s “The Rite of Spring,” which inspired not just revulsion but riots in Paris in 1913, yet is now perceived as a watershed in modern music? Nah. 





No.16 article:
After Warnings It Could Go Off the Rails, the Election Actually Ran Smoothly

In Georgia, a high school senior organized her classmates to be poll workers so voters would not have to wait hours in line like they did back in June.

In Wisconsin, Milwaukee officials leased the whole floor of a downtown office building to serve as the headquarters to count a record number of absentee ballots.

And in Michigan, the secretary of state organized three shifts of more than 700 people each in Detroit who counted twice as many ballots as they had for the August primary in just over half as much time.

Even as the nation waited for the call designating the winner — Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the victor on Saturday morning — it had reason to breathe a sigh of relief. Despite warnings of violence, threats of foreign interference, rampant disinformation, cuts to the Postal Service, President Trump’s sowing of distrust and a pandemic that forced the relocation of thousands of polling places, the machinery of American democracy adapted and held up this past week.

The result was a relatively smooth election free of the hourslong lines and vote-suppressing shenanigans that have characterized the voting experience in recent years, particularly during the primaries of the coronavirus era.

The performance was the result of months and, in some cases, years of planning for a transition from Election Day voting to expanded absentee and early in-person balloting. It involved elections administrators at all levels of state and local government and tens of thousands of new poll workers, lured to perform a civic duty that had never before required taking a personal health risk to allow their fellow citizens to exercise their right to vote.

“There was never a moment when I didn’t think it was going to work because I believe in the American people,” said Adrian Fontes, the top elections administrator in Maricopa County, Ariz., which includes Phoenix and 60 percent of the state’s voters. “We are a raucous, dysfunctional family who will stand together in the best of times and in the worst of times. If you can’t believe that then you have no business running American elections.”

For months heading into November, there was a growing and influential crowd of American doomsayers warning of one calamity after another that could befall the election. Now that the voting is over and took place without a catastrophic structural failure, a crippling cyberattack from abroad or extralegal interference from the Trump administration, those who spent the summer and fall sounding alarms said that without their warnings the worst-case scenarios might have come to pass.

Rosa Brooks, a Georgetown University law professor who convened a group to brainstorm ways the Trump administration could disrupt the election, said the warnings prompted more planning from the news media and local government agencies.

And with the counting, recounting and legal challenges still underway, Ms. Brooks said the country’s deep divisions and easy access to disinformation meant the threat of political violence remained high.

“This is like in Harry Potter where in Book 3 everybody thinks Voldemort is dead but he’s not,” she said. “Nobody should prematurely think we can relax and stop worrying about right-wing extremism.”

Delays in counting some mailed-in absentee ballots were expected in Arizona, Pennsylvania, New York and California, which as of Saturday morning still had 3.6 million of its 16.9 million ballots cast left to be counted — and ballots arriving until Nov. 20 can be counted in California as long as they were postmarked by Election Day.

Boards of election in New York City and its Long Island suburbs have not even begun to count hundreds of thousands of absentee ballots, a process that delayed the results of its June primary for weeks as officials struggled to adapt to elections altered by the coronavirus.

At the heart of the election was an army of poll workers, hundreds of thousands of Americans who agreed to work very long hours doing rather tedious jobs at modest pay to ensure their neighbors could vote.

More than 700,000 people signed up to work at polling sites through Power the Polls, an umbrella group of dozens of local and national civic organizations and corporations that connected workers to local elections administrators.

Mallory Rogers, a 17-year-old high school senior in Rome, Ga., worked a 13-hour shift as a poll worker during Georgia’s dysfunctional June primary — after receiving no training for how to operate the state’s new voting equipment.

“I showed up and I didn’t know what I was doing,” she said.

When her school year began, Ms. Rogers, who also worked a 15-hour shift for Georgia’s primary runoff in August, started a club at Rome High School to recruit friends to serve as poll workers. About a dozen other students signed up, which, along with other new poll workers, helped double the number of people working the polls in Floyd County.

On Monday, Ms. Rogers and her friends went to set up the polling sites and found campaign signs within 150 feet of the entrance — a no-no under Georgia law. But a woman who spotted them removing the signs did not believe the teenagers were poll workers and called the police.

“We got pulled over by five sheriffs and they didn’t believe us either,” Ms. Rogers said. “It was four high schoolers in the car with five cop cars behind us. That was a terrifying experience.”

Ms. Rogers’s job on Election Day was to scan voters’ identification cards and log them in before directing them to voting machines. Lines were longest in the morning, but nobody waited more than 30 minutes, she said.

For Ms. Rogers, Georgia’s two Senate races requiring January runoffs was the best possible outcome. She had assumed her club would have to disband after the election, but now it will continue, aiming to recruit more poll workers and in the meantime registering voters before the state’s Dec. 7 deadline.

“I will definitely be working,” she said.

With much of the voting shifting to absentee ballots, concerns about running a fair election spiked over the summer after a Trump megadonor, Louis DeJoy, was installed to run the Postal Service and ordered operational changes that led delivery rates to drop sharply.

But a series of court orders from judges across the country in response to a dozen lawsuits filed against the Postal Service forced Mr. DeJoy to reverse his changes, such as limiting overtime and demanding mail trucks run at certain times. Over the last week, a federal judge in Washington, D.C., ordered sweeps of postal facilities to find any ballots that had yet to be delivered and expedite them.

In the end, the Postal Service delivered more than 60 million ballots, with likely only hundreds or a few thousand arriving after election deadlines, according to data filed in federal court and lawyers who have been monitoring the agency’s performance. While there were recriminations over disenfranchising even a single voter, there was no systemic breakdown.

“There were no reports in Colorado of any type of slow down,” said Jena Griswold, the secretary of state in Colorado, which mailed ballots to every registered voter. 

All those ballots that arrived in the mail and in drop boxes brought new stresses on election administrators.

Some of the bleakest scenes of voting during the pandemic had come earlier in the year in Milwaukee, which for the state’s April presidential primary reduced its number of polling places from 180 to five because the city could not assure poll workers they would be safe. Voters waited for hours in the rain to vote. 

By November, Milwaukee had trained 3,300 new poll workers — up from 200 available in April, and had 600 dedicated to counting the 169,000 absentee ballots. The city spent $250,000 on plexiglass partitions at the 175 polling places it opened for its November general election. And unlike in April, everyone who signed up to work the polls in November showed up.

Instead of the hourslong lines in April, the enduring image of Milwaukee’s general election was Claire Woodall-Vogg, the executive director of Milwaukee’s election commission, getting a police escort at 4 a.m. on Wednesday for the five-block journey to hand-deliver the results to the Milwaukee County Courthouse.

Even that, Ms. Woodall-Vogg said, was a pretty normal experience.

“In previous elections, the police followed me in my car,” she said. “This time it was a matter of how am I going to get there efficiently with a media barrage. It wasn’t out of the ordinary.”

In Michigan, Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson recruited more than 30,000 election workers to staff the polls and, in Detroit, work around the clock counting the state’s three million absentee ballots.

In Detroit, that meant building three teams of 700 to 800 people each who would begin counting ballots when the polls opened on Election Day and work continuously until the job was finished midday Wednesday. In the August primary, with half as many absentee ballots cast, it took Michigan officials two full days after the election to finish counting, Ms. Benson said.

Among the new poll workers was Crystal Reed, a 52-year-old from Warren, Mich.

Ms. Reed, who works for the Michigan League of Conservation Voters, arrived at an elementary school at 5:20 a.m. to begin setting up for the polls opening at 7. She then spent all day working the tabulator, helping people insert their ballot into a machine to be counted before making sure they left with the ubiquitous “I Voted” sticker.

She stayed until 9 p.m., leaving upbeat about democracy and her place in it.

“I love to make people happy and to see the smiles on these people’s faces, it was really nice,” Ms. Reed said. “I think when you’re smiling and you’ve got that positive energy, it can bounce off of them and make them happy too.”





No.17 article:
Neither Thought They’d Marry Again. Then They Spent a Pandemic Together.

Luis Solis and Hailey Terrell, each divorced and wary of new love, had a change of heart about marriage while in quarantine together.

By the time Luis Solis met Hailey Nicole Terrell last December, he had been divorced for 10 years and had become a master of the short-term relationship.

Mr. Solis, 62, said he developed several “relationship management policies,” for keeping the people he was dating at a comfortable distance. He avoided the word “girlfriend” and instead used terms like “close friend,” “dear friend,” “fun friend” or “sporty friend.” He didn’t allow anyone to keep clothes at his place.

“I lived in the moonshot realm in my business and social career, in terms of friends, networks and doing fun stuff,” Mr. Solis said. “When it came to relationships, I limited that to hitting a bunt. I was terrified of getting hurt.”

Mr. Solis, who lives in Boulder, Colo., traveled often as a business consultant to corporate executives. He describes himself as “a sherpa to leaders going beyond the ordinary” and is more likely to invite you to a sweat lodge than a golf game. He is the son of immigrants from Guatemala, grew up in Washington and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. He received an M.B.A. and a law degree from Stanford. “He’s the American dream times 10,” said Sebastian Mattias Solis, one of his two sons from his previous marriage. 

He met Ms. Terrell, 43, at a New Year’s Eve party at the Shine Restaurant and Potion Bar in Boulder. Like him, she had been divorced for 10 years and was wary of love. She said the men she had recently dated “all found ways to break my heart.” Ms. Terrell, who grew up in Norman, Okla., and graduated from Southern Methodist University, doesn’t shy away from big changes in her life or career. After her divorce, she got a job selling art on cruise ships.

“When I’m in pain the answer is usually travel,” she said. And this summer she opened Get Outta Hair, an electrolysis salon in Boulder.

Hours after they met, Mr. Solis invited her to a concert in Aspen, Colo. “On one level I was like, ‘I just met you,’” said Ms. Terrell, who doesn’t have children. “On the other hand, I’ve always wanted to be that kind of girl, ‘Oh, I’m going to Aspen for the weekend.’ I’d never done that.”

While in Aspen, they “recognized a likeness in each other,” Ms. Terrell said. Both are a combination of entrepreneurial and soulful, thoughtful and constantly busy. Ms. Terrell had a stroke when she was 35, followed by a difficult recovery, and is now determined to make up for lost time. “She packs more things into one day than humanly possible,” said Pamela Jackson, her mother.

Both love to dance, without inhibition. “I was absolutely stunned by our connection,” Mr. Solis said. “Call her a unicorn, an exception, different, call her unique, call her quirky, she is my kind of outlier.”

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

In January and February, each traveled a lot — he for work and music festivals (he estimates he attends about 18 a year) and she for electrolysis training in California. They talked often on the phone for hours. “Luis is not the kind of guy who answers questions in one sentence,” she said.

By early March, both were back in Boulder and they went to dinner. “I’m thinking we are going to be planning our lives together and he was like, ‘I don’t see this relationship continuing,’” she said. “He basically pulled back the reins, a lot. He said, ‘We’ll still hang out. I just see us as being dear friends.’ I was like, ‘I don’t want to be your ‘dear friend!’”

She and Mr. Solis still stayed in touch and when her stove and refrigerator suddenly broke down in late March, she called him for help. By then, stay-at-home orders had been instituted in Boulder, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and all of his consulting jobs had been canceled or postponed.

He invited her over. “It took eight weeks to replace those appliances,” Mr. Solis said. “So we just hung out at my house watching every possible thing on Netflix and doing a lot of cooking. It created an incredible foundation.” In retrospect, both think the combination of Covid-19 and broken appliances were the universe’s way of making sure they got back together. (Mr. Solis’s cooking also helped; he calls himself a “paella wizard” and “a stir fry maniac.”)

While Mr. Solis initially feared she might get on his nerves, she instead calmed his nerves. “Her outlook of choosing to live fully in the face of massive uncertainty and disruption, that was incredibly seductive to me,” he said. “I do believe that’s one major secret to happiness: Just stop worrying. Hailey is exceptional at that.”

She loved his interesting questions and creative ideas for indoor activities. “There was one point where he put together a 100-word statement and said, ‘This is who I am, can you describe yourself in 100 words?’” she said. “He challenges me more than anyone else ever has.”

Over time, he stopped wishing he could fly off for one of his intense brainstorming sessions with a group of business people. “I had a major shift,” he said. “Now, I want to sit still and do nothing and just hold her hand.” He also loves seeing her clothes next to his in his closet.

In late July, he proposed with an amber ring. “Amber is very, very important to the Mayan people,” said Mr. Solis, who practices some Maya rituals like burning copal (for clarity) and drinking cocoa with friends (for deeper connection).

“He’s an entrepreneur and well-educated and charismatic,” Ms. Terrell said. “He’s not that guy you’re embarrassed to bring to a party. I’m so proud he’s by my side.”

Many people asked if they were rushing into marriage. This was Mr. Solis’s response: “We think there’s normal time and there’s Covid time. Covid is different time. We call it the convection oven of romanticism. Covid is 24/7 with someone in existential crisis mode where we’re sort of wondering, ‘Am I going to live?’ Every month feels like a year.”

On Sept. 26, the couple were married at the Boulder Adventure Lodge, a woodsy, thoughtfully updated hotel with a sign inside that sums up the feeling of the place (and the couple): “Be Dareful Out There.”

The ceremony happened outside. It was part Mayan to celebrate the groom’s heritage, part Christian to celebrate the bride’s, and part fun rituals the couple just made up. It was officiated by Jordan Terrell, the bride’s brother and a former nondenominational pastor at Flatirons Community Church in Lafayette, Colo., with Rea Beaubien, who calls herself a “medicine person,” taking part.

Ms. Beaubien began the ceremony by burning sage to purify the space and fanning the smoke around with macaw feathers. The couple closed their eyes and appeared to enjoy the scent as if it were sunshine.

At another point, several of the 25 guests walked up to the makeshift altar and, one by one, presented the bride and groom with a small meaningful gift and a single word describing love. 

Gustav Solis, the groom’s younger son, offered a pair of sunglasses he had worn to a music festival he and his father attended together. “My word is ‘dance,’” he said.

The bride’s father, David Terrell, gave the couple a golf ball. “Luis played golf with us yesterday,” he said. “Not bad. He could use some practice. My word is ‘fulfill.’”

Jordan Terrell led the couple through their vows, while Ms. Beaubien symbolically united the couple by draping a red cord around them, extra loosely. That was apt for Ms. Terrell and Mr. Solis, who can easily spend 24/7 together yet also value their independence.

“Now, is this perfection going to last forever?” Mr. Solis said a few days before the wedding. “I don’t know, but it’s the right place to begin.”

When Sept. 26, 2020

Where Boulder Adventure Lodge, Boulder, Colo.

The Love Train Weeks before the wedding, the couple took a trip they dubbed the Love Train, to introduce each other to family and friends. They rented a Tesla and drove from Boulder to Edmond, Okla., to visit her father, David Terrell, and Keller, Texas, to see her mother, Ms. Jackson. They flew to Wilmington, Del., for lots of catching up and reminiscing with his brothers, Rene and Oscar Solis. “Isn’t that what we discovered with Covid?” the groom said. “It’s all about connection.”

The Vows The bride and groom each wrote a set of promises, and both vowed to accept the other “as you are and as you are not.”

The Dinner After the ceremony, guests lined up for Mexican food served out of a bright pink food truck.

The Dogs The bride’s dog, Camden, a 5-year-old Biewer terrier, and the groom’s, Bella, a 13-year-old Tibetan spaniel, were in attendance. Every morning, the couple and their dogs take a quiet walk together. “Nature does the speaking,” Mr. Solis said. 

The Honeymoon A surprise from him to her. He merely told her to pack a bathing suit. She only learned where they were headed once they were en route to Ensenada, Mexico.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.18 article:
When He Bought the Tiny House, He Was Single. That Didn’t Last.

The one-bedroom cottage on Shelter Island was perfect for one person. For a family? Not so much.

In 2013, when Nick Gavin was still a bachelor, he found a one-bedroom, 1,700-square-foot cottage on Shelter Island that seemed like the ideal personal retreat. The previous owner, Melvin Dwork, a New York interior designer, had created a casually stylish interior with pine-paneled cathedral ceilings and a floor of lagoon-green ceramic tile that was deeply appealing to Mr. Gavin, now 39, a real estate agent at Compass, in New York.

“It was really a big, open loft space, with 15-foot ceilings,” he said. “There were no walls.”

Other than adding a pool to the yard, he didn’t see the need to change a thing. So when another buyer made a competing offer on the house, Mr. Gavin met with Mr. Dwork to assure the designer that he planned to maintain what Mr. Dwork had created.

That meeting helped, Mr. Gavin said, and Mr. Dwork, who passed away in 2016, sold him the house for $675,000. But life can be unpredictable. Just before closing, Mr. Gavin’s solo existence began to change when he met Katrin Thormann, now 33, a fashion model he married in 2019.

As they began dating, it didn’t take long for Ms. Thormann to see the appeal of the house. “It was so fun,” she said. “We just put our mattress in front of the fireplace and spent so much time there.”

But after the couple had a daughter, Greta, in November 2016, they began to realize that crashing on a mattress in front of the fireplace couldn’t be a permanent arrangement, and that having more than one bedroom might be helpful.

About a year later, they hired the design firm Workstead to create an addition that would contain a new primary suite, and to make selective updates to the rest of the house, including splitting the old primary bedroom into two rooms: one for Greta and one for overnight guests.

“Nick was just really in love with the house,” said Ryan Mahoney, a principal at Workstead. “They had a lot of respect for Melvin as well, so they wanted to treat what was there with a lot of deference.”

Workstead designed a 620-square-foot addition inspired by the original structure, but set apart from it by a glass-walled breezeway. For abundant sunshine, the designers added four pairs of French doors and tall windows in the new structure, and split the bathroom into separate nooks containing the vanity, shower and bathtub, all connected by a central corridor. They also repeated details from the original structure, including the pine-paneled cathedral ceiling in the living room and the interior shutters.

To expand the kitchen — previously just a compact area of countertop with a small, under-counter refrigerator — and make room for full-size appliances, they took space from an adjacent full bathroom and converted it into a powder room. To create new cabinets that looked old, they specified painted, rough-hewn pine doors.

“We basically did gut the kitchen, but replaced it with something quite similar,” Mr. Mahoney said.

Outside, they installed a new cedar-shingle roof and replaced the old siding with new material. They also copied an existing custom cedar-shingle sconce to make more exterior lights and added a few conical copper sconces by Arne Jacobsen that will develop a patina over time, just like the wood.

Geoffrey Nimmer, a landscape designer, added new patios and turf to tie the structure into the landscape, with the goal of making the entire expanded home look like one cohesive unit.

To finish the interior, Mr. Gavin and Ms. Thormann moved a collection of furniture, accessories and art into the home, mixing pieces they owned with suggestions from Workstead. Among their favorites are a vintage Pierre Chapo dining table, which Mr. Gavin said set the tone for much of the other furniture, and a prized painting by Ron Gorchov that hangs above the fireplace in their new bedroom.

They also reinstalled a pair of antique diamond-shaped, black-painted wood louvers that Mr. Dwork had mounted above the living room windows long ago and left with the house.

Construction on the addition and renovation started in February 2019 and took a little more than a year to finish, at a cost of about $850,000. As the final punch-list repairs were being completed, the family moved in for a long-term stay when the pandemic struck New York in March.

“It really was a game changer for us,” Mr. Gavin said. “Katrin and I did this project as a quiet retreat outside the city, as a weekend home and summer house.”

But the moment it was completed, it became a full-time house for six months, he said, and the couple came to appreciate their updated home, and the neighborhood, even more.

“It made us wonder if maybe we could live out there, and have our daughter signed up for school there, because we love it so much,” Ms. Thormann said.

Now that they’re back in Manhattan, they plan to return to the house as often as possible, in all four seasons. It’s a commitment that is sure to continue post-pandemic, Ms. Thormann said, “especially now that we have extra bedrooms, and can bring family and friends.”





No.19 article:
‘Hamilton’ Was Just the Beginning. Hollywood Loves Broadway, Again.

Theaters may be closed, but streamers and studios are flocking to the stage to meet the insatiable demand for content. 

LOS ANGELES — On a sun-nuzzled February morning earlier this year, “The Prom,” Ryan Murphy’s film adaptation of the Tony-nominated musical, prepared for a location shoot in a high school gym on the eastern edge of Hollywood. Basketball hoops kissed the ceiling. Rubber matting and webs of cables carpeted the floor. Beside the snack tables, James Corden, Kerry Washington and Meryl Streep, in a wig the red of a cocktail cherry, practiced a dance number, sashaying through the same steps at not quite the same time.

The filmmaking, Corden said, once he had spun his final spin, had been amazing, joyous, nearly as much fun as “Cats,” particularly these song and dance rehearsals. “You feel like you might be in the greatest touring production of all time,” he said.

The stage version of “The Prom,” a story of a young woman who wants to take her girlfriend to a school dance and the Broadway stars who debatably come to her aid, has scheduled an actual tour for January, Covid-19 permitting. That’s a little more than a month after Netflix releases Murphy’s film, which tells the same tale with a starrier cast, fancier sets, delirious wigs and an orchestra that includes four French horns, four more than the Broadway pit could afford.

“The Prom” is the latest in a sequined swell of stage-to-stream and stage-to-screen Broadway adaptations. A list of recent releases, coming titles and financed projects includes “Hamilton,” “American Utopia,” “The Boys in the Band,” “What the Constitution Means to Me,” “The Prom,” “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom,” “Wild Mountain Thyme,” (based on “Outside Mullingar”), “West Side Story,” “In the Heights,” “Diana: The Musical,” “Dear Evan Hansen,” “13” and “Wicked.”

“It’s just something in the zeitgeist,” said John Patrick Shanley, who wrote and directed “Wild Mountain Thyme,” which arrives in theaters and on demand Dec. 11.

After decades of sporadic adaptations, Hollywood has suddenly thrown a lot of financing — and entire brass sections — at theatermakers. Which means that film’s latest special effect is a millenniums-old art form that’s mostly feet and breath and plywood.

Hollywood and Broadway have always had a close relationship, though the power dynamics of that relationship have undergone shifts. In Hollywood’s early decades, hit plays typically became films, with studios securing the rights to shows before the first preview. But sometime in the ’70s, with Broadway a beat behind popular music and culture, the flow reversed, as movies became fodder for plays and musicals.

Ronald Zank, a professor of theater at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, has traced this shift. In the 1960s, he found, only 5 percent of new Broadway musicals were based on films. In the 2010s, that number had ballooned to 41 percent, a statistic that includes Tony Award winners like “Once,” “Kinky Boots” and “The Band’s Visit.”

“Musicals from films became a safer economic risk,” he said. Producers bet that a Broadway ticket buyer poised to pay hundreds of dollars might find a familiar brand reassuring.

What accounts for this new reversal, a spate of theater-based films that precedes and will probably extend beyond Broadway’s pandemic closure? A spotlight operator could focus on a few factors. There’s the increased popularity of today’s Broadway, which consistently breaks records in ticket sales and attendance. Musicals’ new sound, jukebox-driven and pop-influenced, no longer seems so retrograde. And the rise of streaming services has been accompanied by a seemingly insatiable desire for content, even niche content.

Also, there’s now more fraternization across theater, film and television with playwrights populating writers rooms and stage directors making movies. “There has been in the past sort of a snobbiness in the film industry against theater and that’s sort of gone away recently,” said Marielle Heller, the “Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood” filmmaker who directed “What the Constitution Means to Me.” “I feel like people are getting more and more excited about the kind of talent that comes out of theater.”

The style of contemporary stage-to-screen adaptation ranges widely, from sophisticated performance capture, in the vein of “What the Constitution Means to Me” (Amazon Prime Video) and “Hamilton” (Disney+), to a more expansive take on a stage production, like “The Boys in the Band” (Netflix), filmed with the same stars from Broadway. It might offer substantial new material, as in “The Prom” (due Dec. 11) or a thoroughgoing reimagining of the show, like Lin-Manuel Miranda’s early work, “In the Heights,” directed by Jon M. Chu and slated for a theatrical release next year.

Conventional wisdom used to hold that you shouldn’t film a show that still had an active theatrical life — on Broadway or on tour — as a film would discourage ticket sales. Because why pay hundreds for a seat when $20 will buy you a movie ticket plus popcorn or a monthly subscription to a streamer and even more popcorn?

Dori Berinstein, a producer on both the Broadway and Netflix versions of “The Prom,” remembered how colleagues responded when she brought an earlier show, “Legally Blonde,” to MTV about six months after it had opened on Broadway. “They told us ‘You’re crazy’ or ‘You’ll absolutely cannibalize the Broadway show,’” she recalled. Instead, it galvanized tour sales, creating a hunger for the live event.

Because even performance capture can’t entirely reproduce the experience of a live show. And not every performance capture aims to. When Thomas Kail decided to record “Hamilton,” he arranged for the cameras to shoot an ideal view of the performance, one that defied the perspective from the balcony or the mezzanine or even the fifth row orchestra.

“We’re giving you a kind of proximity in relationship to the storytellers that is impossible if you are sitting in a seat anywhere in a theater,” he said.

Filming can alter performance dynamics, too. The writer and actress Heidi Schreck partnered with Heller on her show, “What the Constitution Means to Me,” over two days in August 2019. Because the production, a civics lesson as personal exorcism, depends on the relationship between Schreck and the audience, Heller boosted the house lights to record the crowd’s response.

“I mean, she warned me. I knew. I thought, ‘I’ve done this show so many times, I’m going to be fine,’” Schreck said. “But I walked out and I saw everyone staring at me. I felt suddenly naked. I just kind of froze.” She stopped the show and took out a contact lens. Then she could continue.

A captured performance exists, by default, as the definitive version of the show, the only one that can be played — and replayed and replayed — at home. But it only records one version, or perhaps two or three versions combined in an editing suite. (Navigating theater and film unions makes filming performances difficult.) Even the language — “capture” — suggests an attempt to ensnare something that would otherwise run wilder and freer. “There’s no way to capture a perfect version of it,” Schreck said. And there’s no way, even with cutaways to the audience, to replicate the bodily presence of theater.

Plenty of films don’t want to. When George C. Wolfe began work on “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom,” an adaptation of the August Wilson play that arrives on Netflix on Dec. 18, he tried to forget that he had ever seen the Broadway production. “I just played a game with myself that let me erase our memory of the stage play,” he said.

He and Ruben Santiago-Hudson, the playwright and director who adapted the script for film, cut dialogue, compressed action and pushed the film beyond the play’s single set, staging a blues show in the South, wandering the streets of 1927 Chicago.

Ryan Murphy made plans to buy the rights to “The Prom” the same snowy January night he saw it. Like Emma, the musical’s heroine, Murphy went to high school in Indiana. A guidance counselor had discouraged him from taking a boyfriend to the prom. “I made the movie for my younger self,” he said. “who wasn’t allowed to have those things, who wasn’t allowed to have those feelings.”

But wanting to make a film of the show didn’t mean that he wanted to re-create the show. “When you’re trying to do a note-by-note version of what’s onstage, that to me is when you’re not really doing your job as a filmmaker,” he said. He recast the show completely, assembling a team that would have international appeal. He commissioned new dialogue and a new song, and he knew that when the script mentioned a monster truck rally he was going to have to find 15 or so real monster trucks to surround Streep.

Still, not every translation from one medium to another succeeds, monster trucks or no. Many stage adaptations, plays especially, can seem claustrophobic and shouty when filmed. “Some things are quite, quite dreadful when they make it to the screen,” Zank said. He may have mentioned “Cats.”

Shanley blamed the economics of contemporary theater, which favors small cast sizes. “Then when you turn around and try to make that a film, it’s very difficult to organically expand the story,” he said. He remembered panicking while adapting his Tony-winning play, “Doubt,” set in a parochial school. “I’m like, ‘Oh, my God, four people and three of them dressed head to toe in black, and they don’t drive cars or have guns,’” he said. “I sweated over that one.”

Filmed versions of Broadway shows, good or bad, are a more democratic form of entertainment. Issues of access and finance mean that not everyone can make it to Broadway or to any form of professional theater. And until Broadway reopens, in June at the earliest, screen versions are all we have.

“Diana: The Musical,” a stage biography of the Princess of Wales, would have opened on Broadway in March 2020. Instead a filmed version will appear on Netflix sometime next year. Christopher Ashley, the director, said he felt thankful to be working at a time when so many in theater remain unemployed. Still it felt strange to commit the musical to film before it had properly finished previews. “We are building the car as we drive it,” he said. “It all feels new and surreal.”

Will it feel new a few years from now? After all, one moment’s zeitgeist is another’s old hat, even if that hat is spangled. Scott Stuber, the head of Netflix’s original film division, predicted that Netflix might linger at the stage door for a while, in search of intellectual property, or IP. “We’re a very new film company,” he said. “So for us, we have no IP, we have no library. We can’t remake old movies. We don’t have Marvel. Originality is our IP.” Remaking musicals felt original, he said, and it was that something that Netflix would continue to invest in.

Then again, there are various ways of investing in theater. Amanda Greenblatt, a senior development executive at Amazon, was eager to acquire “What the Constitution Means to Me.” “We basically just shouted our passion for this one from the rooftops,” she said. But the studio doesn’t plan on buying more plays. Instead it wants to work with current and former playwrights — Greenblatt mentioned Matthew Lopez (“The Inheritance”) and Phoebe Waller-Bridge (“Fleabag”) — to make television. “It’s about going beyond just a single production and really lifting them up as creators generally,” she said.

In this moment — and until theaters can safely reopen — these screen adaptations do seem like gifts, gifts that may keep on giving. Kail bet that these films would, eventually, cultivate new theatergoers. “It’s going to create a desire to go and experience it live, when it’s safe to go back and see things live,” he said.

On a blustery evening in October, on the closing night of the Woodstock Film Festival, Schreck arrived for the socially distanced premiere of her film at the Greenville Drive-in in upstate New York. “I never imagined coming to my play at a drive-in,” she said. “It’s kind of thrilling. I mean, this is all horrible” — “this” being the pandemic — “but I feel like we’re finding other ways to commune and be creative and connect.”

The film began. An hour and 40 minutes later, as the credits rolled, the filmgoers, in their cars, flicked hazard lights and flashed headlights and honked horns — a kind of applause.





No.20 article:
Robert Sam Anson, ‘Bare-Knuckled’ Magazine Writer, Dies at 75

He covered wars, politics and brash, complicated men — like himself. His profile subjects included Oliver Stone, Tupac Shakur and David Geffen.

Robert Sam Anson, a virtuoso of magazine writing who ventured with equal brio into the mean streets of Los Angeles, the jungles of Southeast Asia and the psyches of prominent American men, died on Monday  at a home where he had been staying in Rexford, N.Y. He was 75. 

The cause was complications of dementia, his son, Sam Anson, said.

A bear of a man who resembled the actor James Coburn, Mr. Anson wrote mostly for Vanity Fair, where he was a contributing editor for more than two decades, but also for Esquire, Life, The Atlantic and New Times, a short-lived crusading magazine of the left in the mid-1970s.

He was “the last of a breed of broad-shouldered, bare-knuckled, ’70s magazine journalists who will chopper into any hellhole on earth and come back with an epic story,” his Esquire editor, David Hirshey, once said.

Mr. Anson’s byline promised vigorous writing, vivid scene-setting and insight into complicated, sometimes difficult men, of whom he was one.

“He, too, was magnetic and brash, turbulent and complex, passionate and fascinating,” David Friend, an editor at Vanity Fair, wrote in a tribute after Mr. Anson’s death.

Among those he profiled were the director Oliver Stone, who at the time was making his controversial movie about the assassination of John F. Kennedy; Tupac Shakur, in a piece written after the rap star’s death; David Geffen, the music mogul, who allowed Mr. Anson a glimpse into his kaleidoscopic life; and Doug Kenney, the comic genius and co-founder of National Lampoon, whose life was anything but funny.

“The thing about Bob was that he was both vulnerable and imposing at the same time,” Graydon Carter, the former editor of Vanity Fair, said in an email interview. “The wild man of his youth — and he was really out there — gave way to a journalist of towering bravery and ingenuity.”

As a 24-year-old correspondent for Time magazine in Cambodia, Mr. Anson was taken prisoner of war in 1970 and held for weeks by the North Vietnamese and their murderous allies, the Khmer Rouge.

“Bravery isn’t just about launching yourself into a war zone — although he did that,” Mr. Carter said. “It’s also the stories you’re willing to take on. Bob was especially brilliant covering the dark side of the male psyche.”

Mr. Anson probed his own psyche in the last of his six books, “War News: A Young Reporter in Indochina” (1989), a personal story of camaraderie, competition and the thrill of danger.

He was so exhilarated to be covering the war, he was hardly aware of the bullets flying around him. He frequently traveled over dangerous roads where some of his colleagues had been killed or kidnapped.

Such daredevilry, Mr. Anson wrote, “was a means where every day you could test yourself, your willingness to push the limits.”

“And God knows it was fun,” he added, “not just the doing of it, but the recounting of it later at cocktail time, where everyone claimed the closest call.”

In reviewing the book for The New York Times, Harrison E. Salisbury called it “the story of a very young man at war, a tale that is told with gusto and excitement and captures a correspondent’s almost reckless pursuit of danger.”

An opinionated man who was fiercely protective of his work, Mr. Anson was not an easy edit. “He talked back to editors,” Ken Auletta, a media writer for The New Yorker and a longtime friend, said in a phone interview.

“And he would call people out,” he added. “If a fellow reporter was cutting corners or not being aggressive in his questioning, he would call them out. He made enemies that way. But from his point of view, he was telling the truth.”

Robert Sam Anson was born on March 12, 1945, in Cleveland. His mother, Virginia Rose Anson, was a schoolteacher. His father was not in the picture, and his mother and her parents raised him. His grandfather, Sam B. Anson, was a major figure in journalism in Cleveland, where he held publishing and editing jobs at the city’s daily papers. His grandmother, Edith (McConville) Anson, was a homemaker.

Life at home was something of a journalistic boot camp. When Robert was a child, he later told friends, his grandfather would quiz him on current events. If he gave a wrong answer, his grandfather would throw something at him.

As Mr. Anson recounted in his LinkedIn profile, he was expelled from one school for what he said was his “resistance to idiotic rules.” His punishment for one misdeed was to copy, by hand, Stephen Crane’s “The Red Badge of Courage,” which “proved useful” when he covered Vietnam, he wrote.

He graduated from the Jesuit-run St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland in 1963 and went on to Notre Dame, where he majored in English and international relations. He graduated in 1967.

Mr. Anson’s three marriages ended in divorce. His brief first marriage, to Diane McAniff, whom he had met in college, was in the late 1960s. He was married, again briefly, to Sharon Haddock, a lawyer, in the mid-1970s. He married Amanda Kay Kyser, an artist, in 1985; they divorced in 2017.

In addition to his son, Mr. Anson is survived by two daughters, Christian Anson Kasperkovitz and Georgia Grace Anson; a sister, Edith Schy; and a grandson.

Time magazine hired him soon after college to work in its Los Angeles bureau. He covered politics, organized crime and what he once described as “a smorgasbord of mayhem,” which included the sensational killing of the actress Sharon Tate and others by followers of Charles Manson.

After he returned from Southeast Asia, he followed the 1972 presidential campaign, which led to his first book, “McGovern: A Biography” (1972). It was the authorized story of Senator George McGovern, the South Dakota Democrat who lost that election in a landslide to President Richard M. Nixon.

His other books include “Gone Crazy and Back Again: The Rise and Fall of the Rolling Stone Generation” (1981), a history of Rolling Stone magazine and its editor, Jann Wenner; “Exile: The Unquiet Oblivion of Richard M. Nixon” (1984), which examined the former president’s life after he left the White House; and “Best Intentions: The Education and Killing of Edmund Perry” (1987), about a Black honors student from Harlem who was killed by a white police officer in 1985.

In a departure for a man so identified with being a writer, Mr. Anson accepted an offer in 1995 to become editor of Los Angeles magazine. His brief tenure was a disaster.

Shortly after he took the reins, The Los Angeles Times wrote a scathing piece about him, portraying him as mercurial, pugnacious and sexist, “the kind of writer colleagues imagined nursed a Hemingway complex.”

Others believed he was a gifted editor whose disruption of a stodgy workplace was bound to ruffle feathers. Still, he and the magazine parted ways after just five months.

He soon moved back east, “where he continued to torment editors, commune with friends and hunch over his keyboard for the rest of his days,” his son wrote in a letter to friends.

Mr. Anson did most of his writing from an Airstream trailer, which he kept behind his house in Sag Harbor, on Long Island’s East End. He survived a bout with cancer and became a mentor to other patients at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York through its Visible Ink writing program.

Almost two decades after leaving Los Angeles magazine, Mr. Anson reflected on his editing experience in a blog called “About Editing and Writing.”

He said he was glad that he had gone back to writing, “where you’re responsible solely for the words you put on paper, not the lives and families of an entire staff.”

But the editing experience made him a better writer, he said, adding, “And boy, did it open my eyes about what editors have to put up with 24/7.”





No.21 article:
All the Feelings on a Brooklyn Stoop

Timah Kabba and Gaby Núñez Santiago married after winning a wedding giveaway contest organized by a local florist. Park Slope neighbors cheered them on.

Timah Kabba had to brace herself on her first date with Gaby Núñez Santiago at Lord Hobo, a restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., in May 2018. “I don’t really catch feelings,” she said. “Definitely not in the beginning. But the light in there was really good, and when we sat down across from each other I was like, ‘Whoa, powerful eyes.’”

Ms. Kabba (left), 31, was coming off a year of romantic letdowns when Ms. Núñez Santiago’s dating profile on OkCupid caught her eye. She was already subscribing to a four-date limit. “I was hoping for something great to happen, but I also have a short attention span,” she said.  That Ms. Núñez Santiago captivated her with three dates to spare came as a relief. Ms. Núñez Santiago fell hard, too. “I was in love by our third date,” she said.

Ms. Kabba is the creative director at Tempest, an addiction recovery program. Ms. Núñez Santiago, 28, is an expressive arts therapist and support-group manager at the Network/La Red, a nonprofit group that works to end partner abuse. They live in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, but came together in Cambridge by way of Sierra Leone and Puerto Rico.

Ms. Núñez Santiago moved to Cambridge from Puerto Rico for graduate school at Lesley University in 2014. Ms. Kabba is a Massachusetts native whose parents immigrated from Sierra Leone in the mid-1980s. “One of the things we connected over was our commitment to social justice,” Ms. Núñez Santiago said. “But I remember being kind of surprised by how many parallels we had culturally. Talking about the food and the family dynamics really helped us understand each other.”

When Ms. Kabba left for a summer-long design assignment in Dubai in June 2018, they had drawn a boundary around their relationship and worked at finding the vernacular to define it. “I think I wanted to go with ‘girlfriend’ because ‘partner’ felt so intense,” Ms. Núñez Santiago said. “But ‘girlfriend’ sounded kind of frivolous. There was a lot of gender stuff we had to work through.”

Their commitment to each other didn’t require a name, though. All that summer, through the phone, it deepened. By the time Ms. Kabba returned, they had settled on calling each other partner. Two years later, they agreed to become life partners. On Sept. 26, 2019, Ms. Kappa proposed, on one knee, at an Airbnb during a weekend getaway to the Hudson Valley. “I said something like, ‘Of course!’” Ms. Núñez Santiago said.

A move to Brooklyn four months later for Ms. Kabba’s job felt like kismet to both. “Gaby had always wanted to live in New York,” Ms. Kabba said. But a month and 13 days after their arrival, the city shut down because of the coronavirus, and with it their tentative plans for a wedding for 100. Then, in October, an Instagram post caught Ms. Kabba’s eye.

“It was a wedding giveaway,” she said. “I had never won anything in my life, but I thought, ‘This would be cool.’” The Brooklyn florist, Liza Lubell of Peartree Flowers, had organized the giveaway. “She’s one of the florists I think of as artists,” Ms. Kabba said.

The stoop wedding on offer at a brownstone held special appeal. “I had seen one a couple of months ago,” Ms. Kabba said. “I thought it was so amazing that the whole neighborhood could get involved at a time when there’s so much pain and fear in the world.”

On Oct. 3, Ms. Kabba and Ms. Núñez Santiago were announced the winners of the giveaway. They were married Oct. 18 by their friend Celia Castro, who had been ordained by the Universal Life Church, on a Park Slope stoop bursting with fat fall blooms. Fifteen guests came; about 75, including Ms. Núñez Santiago’s family in Puerto Rico, watched via livestream.

“I still can’t believe we had the whole experience gifted to us,” Ms. Kabba said. “We were focused on each other for the whole thing. But having people line up in the streets for us brought us so much joy.”





No.22 article:
What’s It Like to Return to the Office?

Tales of New Yorkers who are braving buildings in Midtown, schools, gyms and other communal spaces.

Ever so carefully, New Yorkers are trickling back into offices that have been revamped for the pandemic. But as infection rates rise around the country and city residents fear a repeat of last spring, the return to in-person meetings and chatter in break rooms has been slow: As of September, only 10 percent of office workers in Manhattan were back, according to a recent report.

So, what’s it been like to go back? Here, a selection of professionals — from a high school teacher in Washington Heights to a paralegal in Midtown — share their experiences.

We went back to work on Sept. 28. They gave us a two-week warning. Mentally I wasn’t ready. It was like, “Don’t worry, we have hand sanitizers and masks, and all this stuff.” But I kept thinking, If I have to go to work in a hazmat suit, maybe it’s not time yet?

Midtown is empty; it’s completely dead. You know Wok to Walk? I would literally marry that place, but all the locations are closed, and that was the one thing I was excited about in Midtown. Now I have to get a freaking salad or something.

I take the M into the city from Bushwick, and before Covid, it was a sardine can. Now I get a seat every day. I only go to work every other day, and the office is only at about 40 percent capacity. Since there aren’t that many people in the building, they are doing this weird thing to save electricity. Randomly all the lights will shut off, and you have to wave your hands in front of a motion sensor for them to come back on.

I actually think I work more when I’m at home. Anything I can do in the office, I can do from home. During the pandemic they even passed an executive order saying you can notarize stuff over Skype. We have to serve things in the mail, but they bought us all printers and gave us an allowance on Stamps.com.

I am not understanding the rush to get back in. I would like remote work to be optional. The fact that going to the office is now mandatory is a bit dystopian to me.

On Sept. 2, we reopened for full operations, except for group fitness. My primary role is to oversee training, and I still have a few clients who I train myself. I am not nervous at all. We installed this awesome machine called an airPHX that recycles air every 90 minutes. Our gyms are so clean, I would eat lunch on the middle of the floor and feel perfectly fine about it.

Our clubs used to have prime times, in the morning before work or on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. They were packed, energy was high, every piece of equipment was in use, music was blasting. We don’t see that anymore. Now we have a constant flow of 6 to 11 people every hour. It helps with the social distancing, but the energy isn’t the same.

I went back around June when the restaurant reopened. It was takeout and delivery and then outdoor dining and now indoor dining. We are getting busier and busier. Most people are sitting outside so we had to change the menu. For example, for the steak dish we now use hot stones to keep them heated a little longer.

Our restaurant opened right before the pandemic, and it’s almost like we are opening again. I had to relearn all the new dishes and the way of cooking. It is hard to wear your mask and gloves more than 10 hours a day. But it is safer, so I’ve gotten used to it.

I drive to work from Bayside, where I live, and while the traffic is about the same, it’s hard to find a parking spot. Because of all the outdoor dining there is less space. Obviously I support it though.

We officially reopened after Labor Day. We implemented a lot of practices we are telling clients to do: adding signage and hand sanitizer; creating a seating plan so no one is directly across from someone who is also in the office. We also did a town hall. There were a lot of questions about what it is like riding on the MTA. I take New Jersey Transit from Linden, and then the E train from Penn Station, so I helped them.

It’s a little sad because the vibrancy of the city is gone, but on the other hand, it’s nice. I actually sit outside and enjoy my lunch now. I never did that before when it was nuts.

During the pandemic it’s been constant Zoom meetings. Now that is still happening, but I also have in-person meetings. What I missed when I wasn’t in the office is the spontaneous collaboration. Now I can walk by someone and ask a question because they are here.

Also: a partner and I both have vegetable gardens, so we compete every year on who grew the spiciest peppers. Last week we made margaritas and bloody Marys with them, Covid-style, with latex gloves. It was so fun. You can’t have a margarita party on Zoom.

The students returned in October. I am a hugger, and I remember on the first day back it was hard to just do elbows. The freshmen are always shy, but they were even more shy because we had only met them through the computer.

We are in the building two or three days a week and then home, on the computer, the rest of the time. It’s boring in the school. Kids sit in the same classroom all day while teachers rotate. They can’t hang out in the halls or do clubs or sports. One student told me he can’t come back because it’s too awkward. I am a little nervous about Covid. I know a teacher who got it at her school. You just have to be diligent. I was in a room today, and the window wouldn’t open, so I couldn’t be in there.

I now love to teach remotely because I’ve been getting certified using different tools. I just finished a class on how to make interactive lessons. It’s a lot more fun. You can’t just stand in front of a computer and lecture kids anymore.

But I do miss the students. I can’t wait until we can sit in a circle again and do a group project or share a box of cookies or take a walk together. Nothing can beat that human connection.

They opened up the office on a volunteer basis after July 4; I came back right away. It was refreshing to be able to have that separation from work and life. I am happy to say my little cactus plant on my desk survived. The other day I had a Zoom meeting with a hiring manager, and we both realized we were in the office. We had this look of joy and found a conference room to meet in.

We have an app where you put in your information and go through questions. You get a check mark that you can go into the office, and you show that to security. We have stickers on the elevators where we are supposed to stand. We also have all these new lounges outside that they created for us. They have heat lamps and a beautiful view of the Hudson River. We pop out there when we want to have a socially distanced conversation or meeting.

It’s fun to remember what clothes you have in your closet and put together outfits for work everyday. It feels good to put on makeup and have some semblance of normalcy.





No.23 article:
‘A New Day in America’: Biden Victory Prompts Spontaneous Celebrations

Scenes of jubilation spread minutes after news outlets had called the election for Joseph R. Biden Jr. They lasted into the night.

CHICAGO — People shouting from their windows, ringing cowbells on their porches and blaring car horns in the streets: As the news spread through cellphones and television screens that Joseph R. Biden Jr. had won the presidential election, spontaneous celebrations erupted within minutes across the nation, and many persisted as street parties into the night.

In Chicago on Saturday morning, hundreds poured onto Clark Street, waving American flags, cheering and hugging. Demoz Desta, 29, emerged from a grocery store, stunned at the sudden commotion.

“I thought the Cubs won the World Series for a second,” he said. “This feels so good to see everybody so happy. It feels good to know that I’m not the only one. And we haven’t had a chance to be happy together for so long.”

Even as Mr. Trump vowed to continue fighting the election results, and his supporters gathered in tense scenes at state capitols to insist without evidence that the election had been marred by fraud, the scene in many cities was one of jubilation: In Los Angeles, impromptu celebrations broke out on street corners. In Seattle, people shot off fireworks. In New York, crowds flooded into Times Square, and Senator Chuck Schumer, in a call to Mr. Biden from Brooklyn, held up his phone so the president-elect could hear the borough’s celebrations.

By nightfall, drummers were leading a celebratory march through the streets of Philadelphia and a mariachi band was playing to crowds in Washington, D.C.

“It’s a new day in America,” said Barry Karas, 74, a retired actor and political activist, who was hoisting two Biden signs onto his wrought-iron fence in Washington. Passers-by shouted back, including a man wearing a blue medical mask who said, “If it wasn’t a pandemic, I’d hug you!”

Nearby, the driver of a silver Toyota Prius repeatedly honked its horn, joggers held their arms up in jubilation and a woman on a bicycle rode through the intersection, shouting with joy.

As supporters of Mr. Biden celebrated, crowds of Trump supporters gathered with vows to continue fighting the results, and tense scenes began to unfold at competing events.

In Harrisburg, Pa., while some Biden supporters danced in celebration, carrying signs bearing messages like “The People Have Spoken,” hundreds of supporters of Mr. Trump gathered for hours, chanting “Stop the steal,” embracing the president’s baseless claims of election fraud. Many carried long guns, and police intervened to keep opposing groups separated.

One man who identified himself as part of the far-right Proud Boys, a group notorious for violence, held a sign that said “Standing Back, Standing By, Mr. President” — a reference to Mr. Trump’s comments about the group during a presidential debate in September.

In Salem, Ore., videos showed a person wearing Proud Boys apparel using pepper spray on someone, and another person in the crowd throwing a punch.

In Lansing, Mich., Trump supporters chanted: “Whose streets? Our streets!” and repeated Mr. Trump’s false contention that he had won the election. There was a brief fight in the crowd, which included armed people on both sides.

Curtis Udell, 56, who was standing with an AR-15 rifle, said that he still held out hope for Mr. Trump. “They’re never going to convince me that he didn’t win,” he said.

Half a dozen people were standing nearby, waving Biden signs at passing cars. Justine Robinson, a 26-year-old activist from Grand Rapids, said she had initially supported Bernie Sanders but was happy with Mr. Biden’s win. “He’s not the candidate I wanted, but he’s better than Trump,” she said. “There’s still a lot of disappointment.”

The gatherings developed as Mr. Trump signaled that he intended to continue fighting the election tallies, which showed Mr. Biden with an advantage of four million votes nationwide and on track to win more than 300 electoral votes.

Minutes after Mr. Biden was projected to have won the presidency, a crowd of several dozen Trump supporters stood in a cold fog in front of the State Capitol in Bismarck, N.D., as the national anthem played. They had come to protest what they saw as a fraudulent election and to show support for Mr. Trump.

“It sickens me,” said Ken Weigel, who drove nearly two hours to attend the protest. He said he would not accept Mr. Biden as president.

In Miami, about two dozen Trump supporters, mostly Cuban-Americans, gathered outside a restaurant to protest the projected Biden victory. Drivers honked their horns, waving “Make America Great Again” hats out their driver windows, as some people waving Biden flags driving in the opposite direction shouted, “Go home!”

The protesters shouted back, “We are not socialists!”

In downtown Los Angeles, where an anti-Trump rally had been planned by liberal groups including Black Lives Matter supporters to protest the president’s efforts to contest the election, the event quickly became a site of celebration.

“I feel liberated,” said Linda Gomez, 37, an activist who has worked to promote rights for convicted felons and who herself was formerly incarcerated. She added, “Today is the people’s day.”

Ms. Gomez, like others there, said voting out President Trump would not be enough to achieve the changes voters were seeking.

“We have to make sure things are implemented,” she said. “We have to hold Biden accountable.”

Sitting outside the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Christian Hanna, 31, stopped his afternoon bike ride to take in the election news after he noticed his phone, balanced on the handlebars of his bike, “blowing up” with the updates.

Mr. Hanna is a registered Republican who said he disagreed with the divisive tone of Mr. Trump’s speeches and also disagreed with parts of Mr. Biden’s record. He said he had voted for a third-party candidate, Jo Jorgensen.

He said some of his friends on social media were popping bottles of Champagne, while others were saying, “Fight this, fight this.” He read a tweet from Mr. Trump in which the president claimed to have won the election and said it made him think wistfully about how John McCain had accepted defeat in 2008.

“I believe in decorum,” said Mr. Hanna, who added that he was considering changing his registration to independent. “I believe in handling wins and handling losses with grace.”

Across the street, four sheriff’s deputies sat in an unmarked black S.U.V., keeping an eye out.





No.24 article:
There Is No Such Thing as a Bad Player

There is a universal lesson in Patrick Bamford’s story, a reminder that judging players is often not quite so straightforward as decreeing some good enough and others not good enough.

Patrick Bamford bounced around for a long time, the sodium glow of his youthful promise fading in the shadows of all those blind alleys.

A few months at Crystal Palace, when he did not start a game, and a spell at Norwich City, where he failed to convince his manager he was worth keeping. Burnley was a dead end, too. It was not until he arrived at Middlesbrough that he finally managed to make a Premier League start and score a Premier League goal, but it was only one. And the season ended in relegation, anyway.

This was not what had been expected of Bamford. It was not, most likely, what he would have expected of himself. He had joined Chelsea at 18, and was rich enough in potential then that one of the biggest clubs in the world had paid a couple of million dollars or so to sign him after only two senior appearances.

Or, at least, that was the assumption. In 2012, when a club signed a teenage prospect, the natural conclusion was that it must have found a sensation, a next big thing waiting to take the game by storm. It would not have occurred to anyone, then, that a club might sign a young player so it could harvest loan fees for a few years and then sell him at a vast profit.

Looking back, of course, that is precisely what happened to Bamford at Chelsea. It was not that he wasn’t supposed to make it; it was that doing so would have been a bonus. The club was, effectively, running an industrial-scale player trading operation, developing young players so they could be sold on, with the subsequent revenues reinvested into the first team.

There is nothing wrong with that — nothing, at least, in a legal sense; moral reactions may vary — but it came at a cost to Bamford. He has always been judged by the standards of the player it was assumed he was meant to be. Every loan spell that did not quite work out provided a little more evidence that he had not lived up to his early talent.

The year after Middlesbrough’s relegation — the 2017-18 season — Bamford moved to the club permanently. He had, it seemed, finally accepted that his “dream” of playing for Chelsea was at an end. He did well in that campaign, scoring 11 goals, but in a way that success seemed to cement his reputation. Bamford was a perfectly good striker in the second-tier Championship: not prolific, not dead-eyed and ruthless, but energetic and willing and intelligent. He had, most decided, found his level.

Two seasons later, Bamford is a Premier League player. More than that, he is a Premier League-standard player. He scored one of Leeds United’s three goals at Anfield on the opening weekend of the season. He scored another in a 4-3 win over Fulham a week later. Then he scored a decisive goal in an impressive victory at Sheffield United. Not long after, he scored all three in a 3-0 win against Aston Villa.

He has played seven games and scored six times. Those goals have been of all shapes and sizes: pretty finishes and scruffy ones, artful ones and emphatic ones, from close range and from distance. A player written off as destined for life to be a second-tier workhorse has arrived in what is regarded widely — and occasionally even accurately — as the best domestic league in the world and has been transformed into Ruud van Nistelrooy.

The explanation for that is, in part, specific to Bamford. It is only now, as his father, Russell, recently told The Athletic, that he is working for a coach — Marcelo Bielsa — who “believes in him.” It is only now that he is with a club invested in his success. For all the due diligence Chelsea and its peers among the superpowers do when finding client clubs to take their players on loan, the athletes are rarely anything more than borrowed assets. Players on loan are easily discarded.

And Bamford, 27, is, perhaps, at an age when he is more centered, more comfortable, more at ease. Bamford, semifamously, had a privileged upbringing. He went to private school. He plays the violin. He speaks three languages “conversationally,” which in his case is probably not a résumé-boosting euphemism for knowing how to ask where the swimming pool is.

In his early years, that made Bamford an outlier in a sport where difference is too often seen as weakness. At times, he has admitted previously, it was a source of discomfort for him. Now he is old enough and wise enough to shrug it off. (He is also, as Phil Hay, a journalist who has covered Leeds for longer than is healthy, has pointed out, working for a manager who will not even be aware of his background, much less care about it.)

If you put all of that aside, though, there is a universal lesson in Bamford’s story, something that almost affords it the status of parable.

Bamford is flourishing under Bielsa partly because of the connection between the two of them, but largely because he fits the coach’s system perfectly. Bielsa does not need his striker just to score goals; that is not the sole metric by which he judges the effectiveness of his No. 9.

Instead, the forward in Bielsa’s vision of soccer is there to hold the ball up, to bring others into play, to create space, to destabilize the defense and, in particular, to lead the press. Goals are helpful, of course — goals are the point of soccer — but they are not the only metric.

It is the same reason Jürgen Klopp finds it odd that Roberto Firmino attracts criticism for not being more prolific; it is why Rafael Benítez, a generation earlier, built a title-winning team with Mista as its spearhead, a player who scored 48 goals in 218 games across a decade in La Liga. Bielsa sees Bamford in precisely the same light.

Too often, as fans and as observers, we write off players when they fail to meet some indistinct performance standard. We determine that they are not good enough for this team or that level. We demand that they are dropped or sold or upgraded. We decide that they will never make it.

Bamford offers a salutary reminder that it is not quite so straightforward as decreeing some players good enough and others not good enough, and that doing so based on one element of their job — in this case, goals scored — is misleading to the point of myopia.

Often, it is not so much that there are bad players. There are just players on the wrong team, or in the wrong system, or in a job that they are ill-suited to do. For a long time, that was Bamford: a player who was supposed to be a sensation, but never quite managed to settle.

That does not mean the early promise was wrong. He was, instead, waiting to find the right place, the right time, the right team, the right coach. In Bielsa, and in Leeds, he has found that now. His story is not one of a player finally reaching his level. It is a much more common story: that of a player finding his place.

England went back into lockdown on Thursday. This one is set to last a month, initially, but longer feels likely. In July, the government — on suspiciously short notice — canceled Eid for those living in some of Britain’s largest Muslim communities, so there really shouldn’t be any reason to place a firewall around Christmas.

There are tighter pandemic restrictions in place across Europe now, too: nine cities subject to curfews in France; partial shutdowns in Germany and the Netherlands; limits on opening hours for restaurants and bars in Italy. The continent is in the grip of the second wave of the coronavirus, and most are warning that, without stringent measures, it may rise higher than the first.

Elite soccer, you will have noticed, is carrying on regardless, even at a time when youth sports are being put on hold. The domestic leagues continue uninterrupted. The Champions League group stage has reached its halfway point. At a time when borders are closing and travel is being restricted, soccer has an international break planned.

None of this has been met with any moral outcry. No anonymous executives have come forward, as they did in spring, to demand that the season be abandoned, to declare that it is abhorrent to play on while the death tolls mount. There have been no calls to nullify and void everything immediately.

Nor should there have been, of course: Elite soccer has proved, over the last seven months, that it can play on in a time of pandemic. The number of positive tests among players remains low; the testing regimen is thorough and assiduous. Most important, the sport has not been linked to any major outbreaks, and it has not placed any excessive burden on health or emergency services.

But it does raise two questions. One is why those who wanted to abandon soccer in spring on moral grounds are not calling for the same to happen now. The other is: Given that Europe is facing what may be a long winter of monthslong lockdowns, what would have happened if soccer had not proved that it could play on?

What if we had set the precedent of abandoning last season? Without seven months of evidence that soccer, at least among the elite, can function in these conditions, presumably we would have to abandon this season now. That could mean almost an entire year without any revenue at all for clubs and associations. It would mean a return was effectively impossible until a vaccine had not only been found, but also been widely administered.

Soccer did not handle that conversation at all well in spring. It was fraught and self-interested and duplicitous and, at times, toxic. But, in hindsight, it may well have been the game’s salvation. If it had not started then, it is not clear, now, whether the games really would have been able to start — in any recognizable form — at all.

Jesse Marsch looked a little forlorn as he tramped across the field to congratulate his opponents and commiserate with his players on Tuesday night. It was not hard to see why: His Red Bull Salzburg team had been holding Bayern Munich with 12 minutes to play in their Champions League game. By the time Marsch stepped on the turf, head bowed, his team had lost, 6-2.

Sympathizing with any of the Red Bull teams — being, as they are, the sporting emissaries of a corporate empire — is a complex thing. As we wrote of RB Leipzig in August, they make imperfect underdogs. All they have to compete with the game’s elite, after all, is the backing of a $20 billion drinks empire, and some of the best facilities money can buy.

Still, it is hard not to feel as if Salzburg has given more to the Champions League than it has, thus far, received. Marsch’s team went toe-to-toe with Bayern Munich, the best side in Europe by some distance, for 80 minutes this week, and got nothing. It lost only at the last against Atlético Madrid the week before.

There is an element of déjà vu here: Last year, in its first Champions League group stage appearance, Salzburg lost narrowly to Napoli at home, took a point in Naples, and almost drew with Liverpool at Anfield. Only fine margins and an unkind draw separated Marsch and his team from a place in the last 16. The same fate, most likely, awaits Salzburg this season.

That is a shame, because this is a team that would hardly wilt in that rarefied company: a collection of emerging stars — with special mention for Dominik Szoboszlai — and a coach who encourages them to play adventurous, intense soccer. Marsch was, clearly, disappointed his team could not quite get over the line this week. He can take great pride, though, in how far they have come.

Thanks to Joe Klonowski, who saw in last week’s retelling of the Colombian Pirate League an echo of baseball’s Federal League. “The reserve clause was the maximum wage, holding wages down,” he wrote. “Joe Tinker, Edd Roush and Mordecai ‘Three Finger’ Brown” were baseball’s de Freitas, Rial and Di Stéfano, famous players who jumped to the outlaw league for better pay.

“The Federal League sued the established National League for monopolizing baseball, and the suit made it all the way to the Supreme Court. The court’s ruling upheld the reserve clause and, to this day, gives Major League Baseball (and the N.F.L., N.B.A. and M.L.S.) legalized monopoly power in their respective sports.”

I did not know any of that, but am glad to have been educated. Much appreciated.

Christopher Orr, meanwhile, is not convinced that someone’s having to become West Brom is quite the problem for a super league that I have suggested. “I’m wondering if we’re missing the fact that most fans of English football would prefer to watch West Brom in the Premier League than Brentford, Luton or Bristol City in the Championship. In a super league, isn’t it logical to assume fans of European football would also prefer watching the ‘West Brom of Europe’ to watching domestic league sides in regionalized European versions of the Championship?”

That’s all for this week. There’s plenty to keep your eye on across Europe this weekend: Bayern visits Borussia Dortmund on Saturday in the Bundesliga, and Sunday is packed — Lazio against Juventus, Atalanta against Inter Milan, Liverpool visiting Manchester City, and then Valencia hosting Real Madrid. This week’s Set Piece Menu is a good one, on what role sport plays in broader culture. And, of course, please tell your family and friends that there is more to The Times than just working out which way Pennsylvania went.





No.25 article:
House Hunting in Panama: Tucked Into the Mountains for $580,000

In western Panama, the popular town of Boquete is fending off a pandemic slowdown by luring city-dwellers and retirees with its remote beauty and pleasant climate. 

This three-bedroom house is a short walk from downtown Boquete, a mountain town in the fertile highlands of Panama’s western Chiriquí province, known for its remote location, pleasant climate and popularity with expatriates. 

The single-story house, which was remodeled and expanded to 2,450 square feet in 2017, is in Panamonte Estates, a 13-year-old gated community with 23 architecturally distinct homes. The community’s land was purchased from the owners of the neighboring Panamonte Inn &amp; Spa, a local landmark whose 1914 opening coincided with that of the Panama Canal, said Lauretta Bonfiglio, an agent with Casa Solution, which has the listing. Though not huge, “every house is individual,” Ms. Bonfiglio said. “Even gated communities are not mass look-alike developments. That is what makes Boquete a unique community.”

Wrought-iron gates open to a stone walkway traversing the lawn and a wood bridge with a decorative railing. Across a creek, the path resumes, leading to a glass-topped pergola at the front entrance. A second gate slightly farther down the road opens to a large carport.

The entrance hall, with wood-beam accents, leads to a great room with living and dining areas. The room has stone walls, a vaulted ceiling, and a floor-to-ceiling, double-sided stone fireplace. Porcelain tiles resembling wood cover the floors throughout.

Massive glass doors slide open from both the living area and adjacent library/study to a covered terrace with an outdoor living room, a stone fireplace and custom iron railing. Warmed by the other side of the fireplace, the library/study could double as a third bedroom.

Across the entry hall, the kitchen is distinguished from a sitting area by a long wood table with drawers and shelves tucked underneath that serves as a movable center island. A stainless-steel sink is set in a white-tile countertop, with matching subway tiles forming a backsplash. A walk-in pantry is in the sitting area. 

The main bedroom has a wall of closets and windows on two walls. A pocket door opens to an en suite bath with beige porcelain tile, a marble-topped wood vanity and a decorative mirror. The shower has a bench beneath a clerestory window.

Beyond the main bedroom, a hallway lined with louvered doors hides a washer and dryer on one side and a linen closet and storage compartment on the other. A second doorway reveals a full bath with a tub in a stone surround. The adjoining second bedroom is used as a study.

The house is tucked into one end of its 0.39-acre lot, adjoining a large side garden with bougainvillea, bamboo, ferns and citrus trees. Several wood bridges span the brook that crisscrosses the property.

The town of Boquete, near Panama’s western border with Costa Rica, sits about 3,900 feet above sea level and attracts locals and foreigners alike with its natural beauty and vibrant cultural scene. This property is a five-minute walk to several Boquete restaurants, and not much farther from the pharmacies, grocery stores and churches that dot its downtown strip. Enrique Malek International Airport, in the Chiriquí capital city of David, is about an hour away. The flight to Boquete from Panama-Tocumen International Airport in Panama City takes just over an hour.

Thanks to its agreeable climate, affordable housing and health care, and use of the U.S. dollar, Panama has emerged as a favorite destination for foreign buyers, particularly American retirees. Those buyers have gradually pushed up prices over the past five years

Rafael Gangi, the broker-owner of Sotheby’s International Realty Panama, said that although the coronavirus pandemic shuttered the country’s housing market from March through August, prices remained stable. Tourists and expats are returning to Panama, but in fewer numbers. “There is a moderate inventory of properties for sale in both the primary and secondary markets,” he said.

When Panama instituted its lockdown on March 20, Jason Cohen, an owner with his wife, Stephanie, of Casa Solution Real Estate, got nervous. “In the beginning, we lost a few deals because of what was going on,” Mr. Cohen said. “I expected things to get much slower.”

But sales volume in Boquete remains similar to 2019 levels, he said, and while there are some “buying opportunities,” prices haven’t slipped.

Properties “started selling virtually and we started selling more luxury properties,” Mr. Cohen said. Before the pandemic, most of their sales were in the $200,000 to $400,000 range, with luxury homes from $500,000 to $900,000 selling “once in a while.” 

“This year, it’s more $500s, $600s and $900s,” he said, with some buyers going into contract sight unseen. “I have been pleased with the shift to the higher end.”

The surge in Boquete is partly political. Buyers “used to originally be 55 and older,” including many snowbirds, said Joanne Hatch, an agent with Inside Panama Real Estate who does most of her business with expats. This year, she has seen “a huge uptick” of young families unhappy with “where the U.S. is going right now.” 

“I have some people that hate Trump and some people that hate Biden,” she said.

Then there has been the pandemic effect: More domestic buyers are newly able to work from home and less tethered to their work commutes, Mr. Cohen said, while some are making lifestyle changes or seeking homes with more elbow room.

(As of Nov. 2, Panama had reported 134,915 Covid-19 cases and 2,720 deaths, according to the New York Times’s coronavirus world map.)

“We are getting a wave of Panamanians wanting to move to Boquete and get away from the city,” said Eugenio Horna, the general manager of Casa Solution. About 30 percent of his firm’s buyers are Panamanian, up from about 10 percent five years ago.

Foreigners living in Panama City, about 300 miles east, also are relocating to Boquete. At the high end, Mr. Cohen said, buyers “are mostly all foreigners.”

Still, Ms. Hatch said, she is overloaded with top-end inventory. She has more than 60 active listings, from $150,000 to several million dollars, with a gap from $200,000 to $300,000, the most popular price point. “We are short on those listings,” she said.

In Boquete, she said, $500,000 buys a 2,500- to 3,000-square-foot home with a nice kitchen. Most houses come fully furnished; a few have pools.

Though many Panamanian coffee farms have been sold and divided into lots, more houses and less land are being purchased. “Before, people couldn’t find what they wanted and had to build,” Mr. Cohen said. Finished houses are now often available for less than what it costs to build a similar house.

Since its founding in 1911 as a small agricultural community, Boquete has been “very multinational,” Ms. Bonfiglio said. 

Recent American buyers have come from New York, Texas, Florida, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado and Ohio, agents said. Buyers also come from Canada, South Africa, Holland, France and Britain, Ms. Hatch said. 

Before the pandemic, Mr. Cohen worked with buyers from Germany and Italy. While inquiries are still coming, few have previewed properties in person.

There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Panama, said Oliver Candanedo, a local lawyer, though a notary is required to do a closing and “a lawyer is always recommended for foreigners that are not familiar with our laws and formalities.” Lawyers are required when a sale or purchase involves “a company or private-interest foundation.”

Real estate agents and lawyers perform due diligence and check titles. Though not compulsory for a home purchase, lawyers in Panama are required by law to do background checks and other due diligence on their clients, Mr. Candanedo added.

Foreigners pay cash or use owner financing, Mr. Cohen said. 

A visa program established on Oct. 15 allows foreigners who invest at least $500,000 in real estate to obtain permanent residency. To retain the resident status, the investment must be kept for at least five years.

Spanish; U.S. dollar

The annual property tax on this house is $1,350, with monthly homeowner’s association dues of $200. Buyer’s registration fees run about $500. Notaries cost $200 to $250, and lawyers charge between $2,500 and $3,000.

Jason Cohen, Casa Solution, 011-507-720-1331; casasolution.com





No.26 article:
How an Eataly Executive Spends His Sundays

Dino Borri usually checks in at the Italian culinary emporium, which is preparing for the holidays.

Dino Borri comes from the northern Italian town of Bra, the home of Bra cheese and the Slow Food movement. He worked as an event coordinator for the movement’s international organization, which is based there, until 2008.

Around that time, he was tapped to be a project manager for Eataly, established a year earlier in Turin. Mr. Borri became the first employee to work outside of Italy when he established Eataly in Tokyo. In 2011, he moved on to New York as the vice president of global partnerships for Eataly USA.

Despite the pandemic (or maybe because of it, since so many New Yorkers are cooking these days), Mr. Borri is getting ready for a busy holiday season.

“The store is full of panettone and gift boxes, and we are preparing a ‘Mercatino di Natale,’ a holiday market,” he said.

“We want to have a normal holiday season, but we want also to respect the rules,” he continued. “We are thinking very much of the motto of Carlo Petrini, our good friend and the founder of Slow Food: ‘Good, clean and fair,’ except we add ‘safe’ to this.”

Mr. Borri, 41, lives with his wife, Celine Adotevi, who is French of Beninese origin and works for an international organization, and their daughter, Edem, 5, in the West Village of Manhattan.

BEAUTIFUL MUSIC My wife and I wake up at 8:30 or so, and we like to lay around in bed until Edem is up. Then we have what I call an Italian breakfast. Something simple, classic Italian coffee and a pastry. It’s interesting in our home in the morning, as I am talking to Edem in Italian, and my wife is talking to her in French. She talks to us in both languages but also in English. It is a kind of beautiful music.

FATHER/DAUGHTER TIME Around 10 is when my daughter and I leave my wife to have her alone time. Edem and I go from our home to the park on Bleecker and Hudson Street. We play together for maybe an hour until Celine comes to meet us. We like to walk from there to the Whitney Museum to see any new exhibits. On the way, we stop at secondhand stores, where I try to find things cool and old. Also now, always, we go to [the clothing store] Lingua Franca, where Edem has a new friend, Margeaux, who explained to Edem the murals of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, which she likes very much because it says something very positive about America.

EATALY FOR LUNCH Of course, I am at Eataly every day for work, and I take my lunch there every day, as well, but I like to go on the weekend, too, because I want to make sure everything is OK with the people who are working then. It has been very hard for workers in retail during the coronavirus, and also our store had damage during the protests, so it’s important for me to see our people and for them to see me. It’s also nice, I think, for them to know I have a nice family.

SURROUNDED BY BOOKS We eat sometimes on the roof at Serra and sometimes outside at Il Patio, and maybe we bring pizza across the street to Madison Square Park. Right after lunch, we like to stop at Rizzoli Bookstore near Eataly because we work closely with them, and they also have books from all around the world, which is very nice for our unique family. Rizzoli, of course, is Italian, so it is best for me, but there are books for all of us. We don’t buy every time, but it is pleasant to be there in such a beautiful room surrounded by books from all over the world.

ISLAND ESCAPE Usually, we are done with brunch and Rizzoli by 2:30 or so, and we now take the R subway to Whitehall Station to find the ferry to Governors Island. On the island we like to tour the green spaces and the parks for playing. Edem is also learning to ride a bicycle, so we rent a bike and help her practice. We stay for a few hours and then take the ferry back to Lower Manhattan before it is dark.

EATALY FOR DINNER Because Eataly has two locations in Manhattan, and also because Eataly Downtown is close to the ferry stop, we make a habit of having an early dinner near the World Trade Center, which we know is a very sacred spot in New York. We usually have something casual at La Pizza e La Pasta, and then we shop for groceries to have at home for the first few days of the week. At home, we help Edem prepare for school and have her in bed by 8:00.

BEDTIME READING After that, Celine and I read until we fall asleep. I read a lot of different books, some in English, some in Italian. It depends on what mood I am in. I like historical books, biographies. I have a lot of food books. I like to buy new food books to understand the trends and what people are doing. And I love newspapers. I have the Times and Wine Spectator. I love The Atlantic Monthly, The New Yorker. It takes me about an hour or an hour and a half to fall asleep.





No.27 article:
Serve Up Some Extra Precautions at Your Thanksgiving Table This Year

Public health officials urge families to keep celebrations small, avoid mixing households and open the windows.

It’s been a year of sacrifice, social distancing and skyrocketing stress. Can we at least enjoy Thanksgiving?

In terms of risk, the timing of the Thanksgiving holiday couldn’t be worse. The coronavirus is raging across the country, setting new daily infection records. More than 235,000 Americans have died of Covid-19, and small gatherings are believed to be fueling much of the spread. While public health officials caution against family and friends gathering in homes for the traditional Thanksgiving meal, they know many people plan to spend the holiday together anyway.

The solution? A scaled-back Thanksgiving — with open windows, fewer people and a big serving of precautions.

“You don’t want to be the Grinch that stole Thanksgiving,” said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert. “But this may not be the time to have a big family gathering. That doesn’t mean no one should gather for Thanksgiving. It’s not going to be one size fits all. You’ve got to be careful. It depends on the vulnerability of the people you’re with and your need to protect them.”

Many of us feel safer gathering in our homes, rather than at a restaurant or public space, but experts say we underestimate the risk when it comes to private get-togethers. Homes are now a main source of coronavirus transmission, accounting for up to 70 percent of cases in some areas. A recent study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of 101 households in Tennessee and Wisconsin found that people who carried the virus, most of whom had no symptoms, infected more than half of the other people in their homes.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

Health officials say they believe small home gatherings are fueling the spread of Covid-19 in part because most homes, by design, are poorly ventilated. Most office buildings, hospitals and restaurants have mechanical ventilation systems that pull outside air inside, push stale air outside and recirculate indoor air through filters. But homes typically don’t have those kinds of ventilation systems, and indoor air changes far more slowly as it leaks through small cracks or gaps around windows and doors. Many homes, in fact, are sealed up tight to make them more energy efficient.

While that may save on heating bills, it means that invisible viral particles from an infected guest or family member can build up quickly in your home or around the table as that person breathes, talks or laughs. Large droplets fall to surfaces or the ground, while smaller particles, called aerosols, can linger in the air, putting everyone in the house at risk.

The World Health Organization recently said that to reduce viral spread, buildings should have ventilation that changes the total volume of air in a room at least six times an hour. Although there’s wide variation in how different spaces are ventilated, some hospitals, planes and new buildings may change the air as much as 12 times an hour. Some schools and restaurants may have air exchange rates of three to five times an hour.

By comparison, the air in a typical home changes only about every one to two hours, said Shelly Miller, professor of mechanical engineering and a ventilation expert at the University of Colorado, Boulder.

“I’ve been concerned that people are not completely understanding how ventilation in the home is different than ventilation in commercial spaces or schools or hospitals,” said Dr. Miller. “I want people to understand that their homes are generally not ventilated. If you have friends over for dinner and someone is infectious, aerosols can build up.”

Depending on the home, weather conditions and other variables, research shows that opening multiple windows — the wider, the better, and in every room if possible — can increase the air exchange rate to as much as three times an hour. If it’s cold outside, turn up the heat or use space heaters as needed.

Dr. Miller also suggests turning on exhaust fans, which are typically found in bathrooms and over the stove. While those precautions won’t eliminate risk, even a few exhaust fans, combined with opened windows, can help.

“Exhaust fans were put in homes specifically to take out contaminants that are a problem,” said Dr. Miller. “You are creating a negative pressure inside the space, sucking air out at a higher rate.” (Don’t use a regular fan, she warns, which just moves air around the room and can increase risk to the group if someone nearby is infected.)

A portable air cleaner can also reduce risk, but buy an appliance large enough for the room size, or obtain multiple air cleaners for a large space. Use this online search tool from the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and read more from Wirecutter, a New York Times company.

Look for a cleaner with a high “clean air delivery rate,” or CADR, said Linsey Marr, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech and expert on aerosols. “It’s going to bring down the levels of virus that might be in the air,” said Dr. Marr.

The most difficult choice you have to make this Thanksgiving may be winnowing down your guest list. Experts advise keeping it small and limiting the number of households attending. (It’s best not to mix households at all.)

Dr. Fauci, who is 79, said his three adult daughters, who all live in different parts of the country, have decided to skip the family Thanksgiving to avoid putting him and his wife at risk. He said people often wrongly assume they are safe if they just invite family or trusted friends.

“Most people feel when they’re in the house with friends, they almost subconsciously let their guard down,” said Dr. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “They don’t realize they’ve come in from multiple cities, spent time in airports. They come to a house where Grandma and Grandpa are, or someone with an underlying condition, and they innocently and inadvertently bring infection into a home. It’s dangerous. You’ve got to be careful.”

If you do decide to invite outside guests, you should take as many precautions as possible. Here are additional suggestions to help make your Thanksgiving safer for everyone.

To start, answer a series of questions to determine the potential risks of your gathering. Do you have a vulnerable person at your family table? Are virus cases on the rise in your area? Are guests traveling from hot spots? If the answer to any of those questions is yes, you should reconsider bringing those guests into your home.

Once you’ve decided to invite additional guests, ask them to be vigilant in reducing their contacts and potential exposures for at least a week, and preferably two weeks, before Thanksgiving. If testing is available in your area, consider asking all guests to be tested a few days before the holiday, timing it so they get the results before coming to your home.

“Everyone can try to reduce the number of contacts for at least the week before the event, and do the same after as well,” said Julia Marcus, an infectious disease epidemiologist and associate professor in the department of population medicine at Harvard Medical School. “Just trying, to the best of your ability, to be more conscious of the contacts you have before and after you gather can be a risk reduction strategy.”

If the weather permits, try hosting all or part of your holiday celebration outdoors. Look into space heaters and fire pits to warm a porch or patio. Or consider a partially open space, like a screened-in porch or a garage with the door open to reduce risk.

If an infected person joins your dinner, your risk of catching the virus increases the longer you spend time together. Keep your holiday celebration as short as possible.

All guests should wear a mask when not eating. Screaming and cheering increases the amount of viral particles that a person emits, so skip the big game or at least wear a mask while you’re watching it.

Guests should have separate serving spoons and avoid sharing and passing serving dishes or utensils. Be mindful about touching water pitchers, wine bottles and drinking glasses handled by others. Wash hands frequently. Place disposable paper towels in the bathroom so your guests aren’t sharing the same hand towel. Space your guests so they aren’t crowded around a table.

While all this might sound like overkill, remember that the virus is highly transmissible, said Dr. Asaf Bitton, executive director of Ariadne Labs at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Dr. Bitton said he knows his patients are suffering from pandemic fatigue, but he advises against socializing with non-household members for the holiday.

“They say, ‘Thanksgiving is really important to us. If we just have a small gathering inside, would that be OK?’” Dr. Bitton said. “I can’t recommend that. I think people have a lot of wishful thinking. I am totally sympathetic to it. This whole situation stinks.”

THANKSGIVING DURING A PANDEMIC Join a New York Times live event, “How to Cook Thanksgiving During a Pandemic,” at 6 p.m. Eastern on Tuesday, Nov. 10.





No.28 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy, From the Harlem Renaissance to a History of Magic

MAGIC: A HISTORY: From Alchemy to Witchcraft, From the Ice Age to the Present, by Chris Gosden. (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $30.) Gosden, an Oxford archaeologist, distinguishes magic from science and religion, and argues that its role in human society is underappreciated today.

ALEXANDRIA, by Paul Kingsnorth. (Graywolf, paper, $16.) Set among a small group of religious believers a thousand years in the future, Kingsnorth’s elemental apocalyptic novel concludes an ambitious trilogy that started with “The Wake” and that covers two millenniums of human civilization.

THE LIVING IS EASY, by Dorothy West. (Feminist Press, paper, $19.95.) First published in 1948, this novel by a member of the Harlem Renaissance satirizes the Black bourgeoisie; its heroine escapes her sharecropper roots by marrying an entrepreneur and strives to distance herself from her lower-caste neighbors.

I AIN’T MARCHING ANYMORE: Dissenters, Deserters, and Objectors to America’s Wars, by Chris Lombardi. (The New Press, $27.99.) What does it mean for a member of the armed forces to object to war? Lombardi’s vivid history moves from the Revolution to Chelsea Manning.

APHASIA, by Mauro Javier Cárdenas. (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $26.) Antonio, the hero of this manic comic novel, is a Colombian database analyst in California, worried that his sister’s mental illness will upend his life.

The Netflix show “Lucifer” depicts family dysfunction at a cosmic level. Watching it, I thought how ironic it is that we imagine even celestial beings share humans’ flawed ideas about love. How flawed? In the book ALL ABOUT LOVE, bell hooks argues that most of what we know about the emotion is wrong or incomplete, and that understanding its role in our lives could save us. “Love” should be viewed less as a noun than a verb, hooks argues, and its expression should never be harmful. Many become accustomed to inherited trauma or misguided teachings and are unable to recognize patterns of harm, hooks writes. This treatise is both digestible and plainly written, while also revealing something deeply profound. It is comforting now, especially, as so much in the world feels broken, to read and think about how we might heal ourselves and each other — hooks offers a path.

—Concepción de León, breaking news reporter





No.29 article:
Maintenance Fees for Some Co-ops Rise to Cover Lost Commercial Rent

As the pandemic has wrought havoc on the economy, many New York stores have been unable to pay the rent, forcing co-ops to pick up the slack.

As the coronavirus devastates New York’s retail economy, making it hard for stores to pay rent, co-op buildings with ground-floor stores are losing a vital source of income. Already stressed co-op shareholders have had to pick up the slack, in some cases with maintenance charges increasing by as much as 40 percent.

“It’s a huge problem,” said Michael Wolfe, the president of Midboro Management, who added that residents are grumbling about the extra costs, as they also struggle with reduced work, furloughs and layoffs.

But Mr. Wolfe said that most residents realize that “anything is better than a vacancy,” adding that co-ops would face long odds at finding replacement tenants during the pandemic.

Also driving the decision to accommodate stores rather than evict them is a desire to preserve the convenience of having on-site shops, board members say. Other co-ops want to preserve jobs of employees who have become like family members after years of operating businesses under the same roof, like at 230 West 105th Street, a 14-story co-op at Broadway in the Manhattan Valley neighborhood.

Its board has hiked maintenance fees 15 percent, which for a one-bedroom means a jump to about $1,400 from $1,200 a month, to make up for rent breaks and discounts offered to the four stores that ring the prewar building’s base. That aid, which is benefiting a clothing store, coffee shop, deli and cobbler, is the equivalent of as much as a 50-percent rent cut, according to the board.

“One shareholder called the move unconscionable,” said Robert Chasen, the treasurer of the 70-unit doorman building, which because of the pandemic postponed its annual meeting from its usual time in May to November. According to Mr. Chasen, about half of the apartments in the building are occupied by people on fixed incomes or who are working-class.

“But most neighbors say they are supportive,” he said. “These stores contribute to our neighborhood.”

The co-op’s largess, however, may only be postponing the inevitable. “Our business has been severely, severely, severely impacted and may still have to close,” said Carolina Conigliaro, whose father, Fernando Andrade, owns the cobbler shop, named Andrade Shoe Repair.

Speaking on behalf of her father, an Ecuadorean immigrant who speaks limited English, Ms. Conigliaro said that a drop in commuters has led to a decline in requests for repairs of heels, holes and zippers. Revenue is now often as little as $40 per day, she added, down from highs of as much as $1,400 per day before the coronavirus slammed New York.

“We have never seen anything so heartbreaking,” added Ms. Conigliaro about the shop, which has leased space in the co-op for four years, and which was located a block away for 32 years before that.

Rents cuts are only one consideration. A punishing retail climate, in which workers and tourists are staying home and not shopping, is occurring at the same time as a major shift in store ownership for many co-ops that were created in the 1980s.

Because of the complicated methods by which co-ops are created, third-party landlords often control buildings’ storefronts under long-term master leases. Co-op apartments upstairs usually receive some of the retail rent money. But the amount is usually just a trickle compared with what the landlords rake in, lawyers say.

Many of the master leases date to the 1980s when many of the buildings converted from rentals to co-ops, and after exhausting all of their renewal options, the firms that own those master leases are preparing to relinquish them — allowing many co-ops to finally take over their retail square footage.

The timing is less than ideal, said Jeffrey Reich, a real estate attorney with Schwartz Sladkus Reich Greenberg Atlas, a New York firm, and a co-op adviser. “These buildings wanted their retail back for years and now no one wants it,” Mr. Reich said. “It really is ironic.”

The retail economy had been deteriorating even before the pandemic because of steeps rents and competition from online shopping. In the third quarter, which ended in September, asking rents in Manhattan’s main shopping areas fell to $659 a square foot, the lowest rate in nine years, according to the real estate firm CBRE. And the number of available ground-floor storefronts in Manhattan increased to 254 in the third quarter from 235 in the second quarter, representing a new record, CBRE said.

Only about a quarter of the hundreds of co-ops in Manhattan are anchored by storefronts, and managing agents estimate that even with recent turnovers, co-op boards still control only about half of the shop-lined buildings.

For boards that have long been salivating about the thought of recapturing their retail spaces and getting a boost in revenue, the dismal market statistics can be daunting.

“Frustrating is how I would put it,” said Charles Sullivan, the president of the board at 201 West 16th Street, a 110-unit co-op at Seventh Avenue in Chelsea that will reclaim its storefront on Jan. 1, 2021, after four lease extensions.

The handover has been a long time coming.

In 1980, five years before the buff-brick 20-story building went co-op, an entity affiliated with the department store Barneys New York (once based across the street) snapped up No. 201’s retail berth, leasing it from the original owner of the building, according to Ed Lewis, the board’s treasurer. The lease has changed hands a couple times since then.

In recent years, No. 201’s corner-wrapping 4,300-square-foot space has been familiar as the home to an outpost of Williams-Sonoma, the home-furnishings chain, which declined to pursue a new lease with the co-op.

And it’s not like other tenants are beating down the door. There haven’t been any takers since the space hit the market last March, just before the Covid crisis, said Mr. Sullivan, who said the board may hedge its bets and renovate the space to make two stores out of the large space.

The board declined to share the asking rent. But “it is much, much less than it was in 2015, 2017 and January 2020, ”said Mr. Lewis, who added, “we won’t be stupid about the pricing, but we will be flexible.” Banks, pharmacies and doctors offices are under consideration.

If shareholders won’t see an immediate upside, co-ops like No. 201 are still well-positioned, they say. Collecting all the rent, instead of just a portion of it, will make them better off.

And tax laws are more favorable than before. Rules that once limited retail revenue in a co-op to 20 percent of a co-op’s total revenues were relaxed in 2007.

But there’s still that nagging issue of attracting and retaining tenants, a concern that has gripped 140 Nassau Street, a wine-red landmark at Beekman Street in the Financial District. The 42-unit co-op, which has four retail spaces, including an eyebrow-threading shop, a hair salon, a dry cleaners and a bank branch, has decided to lower rents and raise maintenance fees as an act of good will. A committee is studying the exact amounts now.

“We have chosen to consider this a catastrophe of global proportions,” said Dr. Raphael Santore, the dentist who serves as board president. “We are going to take the compassionate road even if it will cost us.”

Even co-ops that have had relatively good luck enlisting retail tenants are being cautious. Consider 260 West End Avenue, a 74-unit building at West 72nd Street that went co-op in 1979 and, a year later, signed over its five retail units to the building’s sponsor, which appears to have controlled the storefronts until this year. In recent years, the co-op had been receiving about $50,000 a year in retail rents.

Before the master lease for those shops expired last month, the co-op secured commitments from four of the five existing tenants, which include a diner, dry cleaners, salon, deli and shoe repair shop.

Out of sensitivity for an ongoing process, Liz Osur-Marcal, the co-op’s treasurer, declined to say which tenant was leaving despite an offer of a “beyond generous” rent. Those staying inked shorter-than-usual five-year leases, added Ms. Osur-Marcal, who will tuck the rents into a reserve fund at her “very conservative” building. (The rents are lower than the co-op originally sought a year ago when negotiations began.)

“Some shareholders were contentious. They wanted maintence to go down right away,” she said. But the save-now strategy is in part to protect against the soon-to-be-empty space. And of course, leases are no guarantee of future rents.

Still, the co-op is grateful for some occupancy. “I’m not the kind of woman who uses the word,” Ms. Osur-Marcal said, “but I am blessed.”





No.30 article:
The Digital Nomads Did Not Prepare for This

For a certain kind of worker, the pandemic presented a rupture in the space-time-career continuum. Many Americans were stuck, tied down by children or lost income or obligations to take care of the sick. But for those who were unencumbered, with steady jobs that were doable from anywhere, it was a moment to grab destiny and bend employment to their favor.

Their logic was as enviable as it was unattainable for everyone else: If you’re going to work from home indefinitely, why not make a new home in an exotic place? This tiny cohort gathered their MacBooks, passports and N95 masks and became digital nomads.

They Instagrammed their workdays from empty beach resorts in Bali and took Zoom meetings from tricked-out camper vans. They made balcony offices at cheap Tulum Airbnbs and booked state park campsites with Wi-Fi. They were the kind of people who actually applied to those remote worker visa programs heavily advertised by Caribbean countries. And occasionally they were deflated.

David Malka, an entrepreneur in Los Angeles, had heard from friends who were living their best work-abroad lives. In June, he created a plan: He and his girlfriend would work from Amsterdam, with a quick stop at a discounted resort in Mexico along the way.

The first snag happened almost immediately. In Cabo San Lucas, Mr. Malka and his girlfriend realized that the European Union wasn’t about to reopen its borders to American travelers, as they had hoped. Returning to the United States wasn’t an option: Mr. Malka’s girlfriend was from the United Kingdom, and her visa wouldn’t allow it.

The two decided to stay in Mexico a bit longer. At first it was glamorous, Mr. Malka said. Working by laptop — he manages a portfolio of vacation rental properties — they had the resort to themselves. But by the second week, their situation began to feel like “Groundhog Day.” The city and the beach were closed, so the couple never left the resort. Meanwhile, the travel shutdown was hammering his business.

“All we could do is sit by the pool or go to the gym,” Mr. Malka said. The repetition, boredom and isolation all wore on them.

Eventually, the couple took a 28-hour, two-layover trip to Amsterdam, where Mr. Malka was indeed turned away at customs. They retreated to London, where they promptly broke up.

He has been there since. “Cold, raining, depressing,” he said. “Those are the first three adjectives that come to mind.”

Now Mr. Malka is trying to figure out how to get to Bali — it’s technically closed to visitors, but he heard about a special visa that can be rushed for $800 — or use his ancestry to obtain Portuguese citizenship. It’s a lot of logistics.

“I have PTSD planning my next month,” he said.

Mr. Malka is far from the only Covid nomad to stumble on the road. It turns out there are drawbacks the trend stories and Instagram posts didn’t share. Tax things. Red-tape things. Wi-Fi rage things. Closed border things. The kinds of things one might gloss over when making an emotional, quarantine-addled decision to pack up an apartment and book a one-way ticket to Panama or Montreal or Kathmandu.

Americans have never been especially good at vacation. Before Covid-19, they were leaving unused hundreds of millions of paid days off. They even created a work-vacation hybrid — the workation. The idea: Travel to a nice place, work during the day and then, in theory, enjoy the scenery in the off hours. In pandemic times, the digital nomads have simply made workation a permanent state.

The bad news is it’s the worst of both worlds. They should be enjoying themselves in their new, beautiful surroundings. But they can’t enjoy themselves, because work beckons. The anxious self-optimization pingpongs between “Why aren’t I living my best life?” and “Why aren’t I killing it at work?”

Katie Smith-Adair and her husband run PlaceInvaders, an event company in Los Alamos, Calif. When the pandemic halted business, they packed up their Volvo with a tent and an outdoor shower for a monthlong camping road trip around the West. All the while, she worked 40 hours a week trying to set up PlaceInvaders for virtual events.

The first lesson learned? Never trust campground Wi-Fi. The second? Expect judgment from campground workers for needing the Wi-Fi.

“They make you feel bad because you’re not unplugging and getting into nature,” Ms. Smith-Adair said. “This is my job. I want to unplug, but I also have to get on that Zoom call real quick.” At an R.V. park near Boise, Idaho, she noticed a Wi-Fi hot spot whose name was the equivalent of a middle finger directed at all Californians.

Ms. Smith-Adair’s office became a folding chair on the sidewalk outside whatever McDonald’s or Starbucks was nearby. It wasn’t exactly a peaceful commune with the redwoods. During one curbside conference call in Eugene, Ore., a nearby man with a weed whacker began roaring his motor. Ms. Adair-Smith told him that she was trying to salvage her career. He didn’t care.

When digital nomads do manage to indulge in the splendors of their new homes, they can experience another, more psychic toll: the haters. Austin Mao, a short-term-rental operator in Las Vegas, posted on Facebook about escaping to Costa Rica with his wife in March, and was surprised to receive a flood of angry comments. People accused him of spreading Covid. They were outraged that he had abandoned his country. One person even unfriended him.

After the haters, Mr. Mao said, came the guilt. During the pandemic, he and some friends have kept in touch via monthly Zoom calls. The conversations have a structure: The friends take turns describing what’s going well and not so well in their lives, which they refer to as their “top 5 percent” and “bottom 5 percent.” In Costa Rica, Mr. Mao would share tales of eating fish he had caught himself and diving with whales and sharks. He was living in a beachfront jungle villa where monkeys would knock coconuts from the trees, and he would chop them open with a machete, savoring the fresh juice.

His friends, who were quarantining in the United States, had no such wealth of material. Their stories rarely changed. “They would frequently say, ‘I don’t have a top 5 or bottom 5. My life is kind of blasé,’” Mr. Mao said. “It felt like I was cheating.”

After six months, Mr. Mao and his wife, Chuchu Wang, needed to return to the United States for her to keep her green card. He noticed a change: The Facebook friends who had taken out their coronavirus-rage on him came around. Now, Mr. Mao said, they’re asking him how they can pull off a similar escape.

Perhaps the worst potential outcome not advertised by those who’ve escaped: You and your employer could end up in tax audit hell.

Lots of American travelers try to use a tax rule that carves out exemptions for Americans living abroad. But it requires being out of the country 330 full days of the year, not counting travel. Messing it up brings severe penalties.

“It’s the intermittent fasting of taxes,” said Alexander Stylianoudis, the general counsel at WiFi Tribe, a group that helps facilitate travel for 900 digital nomads. “Everyone talks about it, and everyone does it wrong.” The number of mistakes he has seen since the pandemic has multiplied, Mr. Stylianoudis said.

Some workers have avoided that by simply forgetting to mention their location to their employers — the “don’t ask, don’t tell” of remote pandemic work. Others have been honest and lived to regret it. One employee of a publicly traded tech company, went to Canada when her office closed in March. In September, two weeks after a promotion, the company suddenly told her that she had to return to the United States within two weeks or resign. The reason, she was informed, was to avoid paying foreign taxes. (She asked that her name be withheld because the situation is unresolved.)

Other employers are trying to decide where to draw the line. Leigh Drogen, the chief executive of Estimize, a fintech start-up, said he had discouraged an employee’s request to bounce around from country to country for a full year, but had given permission for the worker to go to Spain for six months. Estimize’s oversight of its staff is already “thin,” Mr. Drogen said, and he worried about the employee’s ability to focus while moving around.

“You work best when you’re in one place,” he said.

There are also visa issues. In years past, digital nomads would cross and recross borders as needed to avoid overstaying. That’s not so easy in a closed-border pandemic.

In March, Ryan McCumber, a business consultant, was stuck in Portugal. He had been traveling in Europe, and a comedy of errors and the sudden continentwide lockdown stranded him in a beach town in the Algarve with just four days of clothes while his dog and the rest of his luggage remained in Warsaw, a previous stop.

The pandemic made his conference business nonviable, so while in Portugal he decided to create a start-up accelerator focused on sports technology. The biggest challenge, Mr. McCumber said, was not making his partners in the United States too jealous while he took calls from the beach.

Although a mugger assaulted him, giving him 15 stitches and a scar above his eye, he fell in love with Portugal’s cheap sangrias and ocean air, and in early summer, when his airline finally offered him a flight home, he didn’t want to leave. With his visa already expired, Mr. McCumber went to the immigration bureau and asked for political asylum.

“I said, ‘Trump’s a dictator, my city is burning, and people are dying,’” he said, citing the president, protests against police violence and the virus. “They made a joke that I was the first person since the Vietnam War from America to ask for that.”

The government workers laughed, he said, and then approved an extension through the end of October. (Mr. McCumber has since returned to the United States.)

Others are struggling with the same vacation fatigue experienced by Mr. Malka, the Cabo-to-London-to-maybe-Bali wanderer. According to research conducted at Radboud University in the Netherlands, it takes eight days of vacation for people to reach peak happiness. It’s downhill from there.

When the pandemic hit, Mr. Stylianoudis, the lawyer, was on the island of Koh Phangan in Thailand. At first, he couldn’t complain about the tropical locale. Each day, after work, he swam in crystal-clear water. But after five months, he was itching to get out. He had become a regular at the island’s 7-Eleven. He even grew tired of the beach — something he hadn’t thought was possible.

The feeling of being trapped in paradise was hard to explain. “I started to feel like I was in a sequel of ‘Lost,’” he said.

This summer, Katie Jacobs Stanton, a venture capital investor living in Los Altos, Calif., saw her moment for a fresh start. She was about to become an empty nester, with two children in college and another taking a gap year. Her father had died of Covid, and being alone at home, especially amid California’s wildfires, was too depressing. Figuring she could find venture investments and strike deals from anywhere, she decided to take a gap year of her own.

In August, Ms. Jacobs Stanton gave away most of her possessions, bought a Tesla and prepared to hit the open road with Taco, her golden retriever. “I had this image of a glorious, beautiful American landscape and mom-and-pop, Main Street U.S.A.,” she said.

She found a different reality. First, someone stole her Tesla. (The police recovered it.) Then her first stop, Reno, was grim. “It’s a very sad city,” she said. In Tahoe, wildfires raged. In Bozeman, Mont., Taco became sick. A trip to a veterinarian led to emergency surgery; Taco had eaten a tube sock.

Then came Kanye West. In September, Ms. Jacobs Stanton had a phone call with the hip-hop artist about a possible venture in the music business, which he mentioned on Twitter. Name-checking her set off “one of the most bananas days in my life,” she said. Ms. Jacobs Stanton was overwhelmed with messages, but on the plus side, the episode prompted all three of her children to call and check in.

She froze while camping in snowy Yellowstone and stressed over the icy roads. Then her daughter in college got the coronavirus, and Taco needed more surgery. (Both recovered.) On top of it all, people in small towns she visited didn’t wear masks and were hostile about it.

By late October, she was ready to call her gap year short. “I think I just want to go back home,” she said. “No more road trips for Katie Stanton.”

More formal workation getaways are bubbling up, particularly in the tech industry, which spawned tools like Zoom and Slack and has been the fastest to let employees relocate in the pandemic.

Over the summer, Michael Houck, a former product manager at Airbnb and Uber in San Francisco, invited a group of 18 entrepreneurs to work out of a rented Mexican mansion in Tulum. He called it Launch House. For a month, he and the crew posted photos of themselves scuba diving, sharing meals and using their laptops at the beach.

When a second group of entrepreneurs arrived in late October, Mr. Houck upgraded to a house with faster Wi-Fi, along with a private chef, a housekeeper and whiteboards in the pool for “poolstorms” — brainstorming sessions in the water.

The goal, Mr. Houck said, was to help founders release new apps and software. “We’re not going out and partying in Tulum or going to the clubs,” he said. “We work from the beach, work from the house.”

They couldn’t work from anywhere when a tropical storm and a hurricane cut the power. “Realistically, in places like Tulum, there’s always a chance the Wi-Fi will go out,” Mr. Houck said. “That’s a trade-off you make.”

The much riskier trade-off, of course, is the pandemic. Three people in the first group, who Mr. Houck said had violated house rules and spent time with outsiders, got the virus. The second batch of entrepreneurs was told they would be evicted if they threatened the group’s safety.

It is a reminder of the steep risks taken by the Covid Carpe Diem set. The reason this once-a-generation moment exists is the same reason most of us can’t go into the office or take a real vacation or eat inside a restaurant. Traveling risks sickness. Seizing the day risks sickness.

In October, Brett Martin, a venture capital investor, had a heart-to-heart Zoom call with four friends — a Bitcoin trader, a writer, an entrepreneur and an architect. Until then, the group had been making plans to move to what they described as a “time-share commune” in Costa Rica from November to March.

The rules had been set: They would buy health insurance through Costa Rica’s government. They would go on a “visa run” to Nicaragua halfway through to stamp their passports. No indoor dining. No work or conference calls from the main living area. Groceries would be delivered. Visitors would be allowed by group consent only.

But one issue remained. “Getting really sick far away from home in a place where you don’t speak the language and being alone and helpless — that’s everyone’s fear,” Mr. Martin said.

On the Zoom call, they decided: No man left behind. “If someone gets sick, this is like a family,” Mr. Martin said. (Just in case, he’s done two months of Duolingo.)

He acknowledged that the setup could easily turn sour. Members of the group will have to adjust to having roommates again. The internet could go out. The price of Bitcoin could tank. He had to perfectly time a coronavirus test to get results 72 hours before flying. But after seven months of quarantine, he said, it was worth the risk.

“The prospect of waking up at 6 in my studio apartment in New York, exercising, sitting down at my laptop for 10 to 12 hours, closing it, staring at the wall, then opening it again to watch Netflix for the rest of the night——” he trailed off. “It sounded literally dangerous to my health.”

He got to Costa Rica in early November. It has poured rain every day. “Spirits,” he said, “are still high.”





No.31 article:
Nurture Your Plants and Your Kid’s Curiosity

This week, pick the best indoor plants, jam with the ‘queen of Kindie rock,’ dive deeper into the power of the X-ray and be swept away by the San Francisco Symphony. 

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

Tune in to a concert celebrating art and art museums by the children’s performer Laurie Berkner, who is often called the “queen of Kindie rock.” Dancing is encouraged, as is donating to the Children’s Cancer Research Fund.

When 11 a.m.Where laurieberkner.com/concerts

Learn to care for your plants during “Making a Home for Houseplants,” a weekly virtual seminar led by the gardener Jocelyn Perez Blanco and hosted by the New York-based Society X. 

When 11:30 a.m.Where thesocietyx.com

Ease your uncertainty about the upcoming holiday season with members of the New York Times Cooking team, including Sam Sifton, Melissa Clark, Priya Krishna and Vaughn Vreeland. They’ll answer all your questions about turkey, stuffing and hosting during a pandemic (Tip: Buy one pound of turkey per person, and another half pound for each guest if you want leftovers.) You’ll also learn a new recipe with Tanya Holland, creator of Brown Sugar Kitchen in Oakland. The discussion is free, but registration is required.

When 6 p.m.Where timesevents.nytimes.com/cooking-thanksgiving

Experience the “serendipitous discovery” of the X-ray and attend the virtual lecture, “X-rays at 125 Years,” hosted by the Mütter Museum in Philadelphia. The German physicist and engineer Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen first observed the X-rayon Nov. 8, 1895  — he scanned his wife’s hand, among other objects — making Sunday the 125th anniversary. David J. Allard, an expert in radiation technology, will also take audience questions.

When 5:30 p.m.Where muttermuseum.org/events

ThursdayJoin in the adventures of The Super Secret Hive podcast with your child. The Hive features six episodes, each focused on a different part of the world around us. Your child will learn about immune systems, the role honeybees have in pollinating, and more. The episode posts include recommendations for further learning and printable activities.

When AnytimeWhere kidsavetheworld.com/thesupersecrethive

Hear the “99% Invisible” podcast hosts Roman Mars and Kurt Kohlstedt during a live-streamed interview at the Portland Book Festival. Mr. Mars and Mr. Kohlstedt will discuss their new book, “The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to the Hidden World of Everyday Design,” with the writer Elena Passarello and the radio host Luke Burbank; the poet Shayla Lawson will also talk about a new essay collection.

When 2:30 p.m.Where literary-arts.org/event

SaturdayBe swept away by the San Francisco Symphony with the premiere of Nico Muhly’s “Throughline,” which was commissioned specifically as a virtual production. Filmed in locations around the world, the show includes solos from eight collaborators. The production, which Mr. Muhly described to The Times as “meaty” and “toothsome,” also happens to be Esa-Pekka Salonen’s debut presentation as the symphony’s music director. The show will remain on the orchestra’s site for on-demand viewing after the premiere.

When 10 p.m. Where sfsymphony.org

Make a Sunday dinner to rival those of nonnas everywhere with the Gnocchi Quattro Modi cooking class. Laura Scheck, chef and founder of the Brooklyn-based Teaching Table, which offers cooking classes and workshops, guides you and your family on how to make the fluffy pasta with whatever produce you have — sweet and regular potatoes, squash and broccoli stems are all excellent options. No fancy equipment needed, but Ms. Scheck recommends baking or roasting the vegetables before the class begins. The class is $25 per household; registration required and the class costs $25 per household.

When 10:30 a.m. Where teachingtable.net





No.32 article:
Build Mental Endurance Like a Pro

Athletes who have endured the most grueling tests have a lot to tell us about how to thrive in the pandemic.

There’s a special kind of exhaustion that the world’s best endurance athletes embrace. Some call it masochistic, others may call it brave. When fatigue sends legs and lungs to their limits, they are able to push through to a gear beyond their pain threshold. These athletes approach fatigue not with fear but as a challenge, an opportunity.

It’s a quality that allows an ultramarathoner to endure what could be an unexpected rough segment of an 100-mile race, or a sailor to push ahead when she’s in the middle of the ocean, racing through hurricane winds alone.

The drive to persevere is something some are born with, but it’s also a muscle everyone can learn to flex. In a way, everyone has become an endurance athlete of sorts during this pandemic, running a race with no finish line that tests the limits of their exhaustion.

Some of the world’s best extreme athletes shared what they do when they think they’ve reached their last straw. How do they not only endure, but thrive in daily challenges?

One message they all had: You are stronger than you think you are, and everyone is able to adapt in ways they didn’t think possible. But there are a few techniques to help you along — 100-mile race not required.

Training to become an elite endurance athlete means learning to embrace discomfort. Instead of hiding from pain, athletes must learn to work with it. A lot of that comes down to pacing, the sports psychologist Carla Meijen said.

Similarly, as you muscle through an ongoing pandemic, you must look for ways to make peace with unknowns and new, uncomfortable realities. “When we think about the coronavirus, we are in it for the long run; so how do you pace yourself?” asked Dr. Meijen, a senior lecturer at St Mary’s University in London.

She recommends thinking about your routines, practicing positive self-talk and focusing on processes instead of outcomes. You don’t know when the pandemic will end, but you can take control of your daily habits, Dr. Meijen said.

Conrad Anker knows something about that. The celebrated 57-year-old mountaineer, who has, among other things, ascended Meru Peak’s Shark’s Fin route in India, summited Mount Everest three times — once without supplemental oxygen — and survived a heart attack while climbing in the Himalayas, advised people to “always have a little in reserve.”

Deplete your resources early and you’ll be in trouble. Focusing on day-to-day activities will pay off in the long run. If you burn out all your mental energy in one day or week, you may find it more difficult to adapt when things don’t return to normal as quickly as you would hope. There’s a pacing in living day to day, just as there’s pacing in climbing.

“When you get to the summit and you use every single iota of energy and calories to get to the summit, and you don’t have the strength to get down, then you’re setting yourself up for an accident or for something to go wrong,” Mr. Anker said. “Don’t play all your cards at once and keep a little something in reserve.”

Sports psychologists frequently recommend creating mini milestones en route to a big goal. There are many steps on the path from base camp to a mountain’s summit. Likewise, there are smaller, more achievable milestones to reach and celebrate as you venture ahead into the unknown.

“Setting goals that are controllable makes it easier to adapt,” Dr. Meijen said. “If you set goals that are controlled by other people, goals that aren’t realistic or are tough or boring, those are much harder to adapt to.”

The professional ultrarunner Coree Woltering is especially skilled at conquering mini goals. The long-distance runner has stood on the podium after races from 50 kilometers to 100 miles. This summer, he set his sights on breaking the running record on the Ice Age Trail: some 1,147 miles across Wisconsin. He ran more than 50 miles a day for three weeks in a row to accomplish the feat.

“I’m really good at breaking things down into small increments and setting micro-goals,” he said. How micro?

“I break things down to 10 seconds at a time,” Mr. Woltering continued. “You just have to be present in what you are doing and you have to know that it may not be the most fun — or super painful — now, but that could change in 10 seconds down the road.”

And it may not change quickly. Mr. Woltering said he has spent six-hour stretches counting to 10 over and over again. “You just keep moving and keep counting,” he said. “And you have to have faith that it will change at some point.”

When the lockdown began, Mr. Anker had already planned a month at home without travel. As that dragged into a much longer period, he turned to some of what he had learned in the mountains to stay present and focused on the task at hand.

“Part of expedition life is having a routine that you’re comfortable with. When I’m on expedition, I always start the day with a basin of warm water and soap. I wash my hands, face, neck and ears and get the sand out of my eyes,” he said. “It’s something that’s repeated that gets you a sense of comfort and normalcy.”

During the pandemic, he has found comfort and normalcy by getting outdoors, and climbing whenever possible to “run the engine.”

Dee Caffari, a British sailor and the first woman to sail solo, nonstop, around the world in both directions, said structure is imperative to fight back loneliness and monotony. On the sea, Ms. Caffari would base her structure around a twice-daily weather report, and all decisions would follow from there. She’s taking the same approach during the pandemic in her home on the South Coast of England, replacing weather forecasts with outdoor activities.

“In your day you need structure,” Ms. Caffari said. “You need to get up in the morning knowing you’re going to make something happen.”

When all else fails, look to something new: a new hobby, a new goal, a new experience. During a particularly hard patch of a competition, some athletes say they focus on a different sense, one that perhaps is not at the forefront of their mind when the pain sets in. A runner could note the smells around her and a climber could note the way his hair is blowing in the wind. When athletes are injured, sports psychologists and coaches frequently encourage them to find a new activity to engage their mind and body. The key is to adapt, adapt and then adapt again.

“We all want mental toughness, it’s an important part of dealing with difficult things,” Michael Gervais, a psychologist who specializes in high performance and the host of the “Finding Mastery” podcast, said. “The current definition of mental toughness is the ability to pivot and to be nimble and flexible.”

Ms. Caffari, the global sailor, has shifted to spending a lot of time in her garden, something she did not have as much time for when she was traveling for much of the year. “The neighbors are quite happy with that,” she said with a laugh.

Mr. Anker has put his extra energy into calligraphy. “Yesterday I transcribed quotes from John Lewis and I find that satisfying,” he said.

When his favorite trails were closed because of lockdowns, Mr. Woltering decided to run every street of his hometown, Ottawa, Ill. It was some 200 miles.

“The next moment is always completely uncertain, and it’s always been that way,” Dr. Gervais said. But adapting, adjusting expectations and discovering new goals or hobbies can allow you to continue to build the muscle that is mental toughness.

Bottom line? “Optimism is an antidote to anxiety,” Dr. Gervais said.





No.33 article:
Poem: Landing Here

Who knows what will happen? Where will we land? How will we spend the winter? Count on an owl to fulfill its destiny. Margaret Noodin’s new collection, “What the Chickadee Knows,” part of the Great Lakes Books Series, is an exquisite bilingual journey of languages and observations “situated between the traditions of the past … and the innovation needed for survival into the future.” As in this slim, strong poem, meditating on the world around and beyond our human doings offers respite, deeper time. Note the movements of snow, cold and wind and the flapping of great wings. We are incidental in their precious stories.

By Margaret Noodin

When it stops snowing in winter and deep cold arrives to crack theiceWe stop hearing the freezing then listen for the great horned owlsThey forgive one another and begin to mate while the world isfrozenLanding on pine branches as snow falls gently in large flakesEventually she lays an egg then ignores the world until it breaks





No.34 article:
Trump’s Tweeting Isn’t Crazy. It’s Strategic, Typos and All.

A network of right-wing operatives and activists — and the president himself — spread disinformation about Joe Biden with one simple hashtag.

On Wednesday afternoon, with the presidential race unresolved, a protester in Nevada interrupted an election official’s news conference by yelling, “The Biden crime family is stealing the election!”

That moment wasn’t random. #BidenCrimeFamily is part of a yearlong, effective disinformation campaign against Joe Biden — one that was spread by social media, political influencers and the president himself.

In the final days of the presidential race, the hashtag was used on Twitter and Facebook, as well as the darker parts of the web, including 4chan and Parler. It was repeated in the right-wing media ecosystem, like Steve Bannon’s podcast and The Gateway Pundit.

In the last month, on Facebook alone, posts with the hashtag had about 277,000 “interactions” like reactions and comments, according to the data analytics tool CrowdTangle — and that’s only on non-private pages. Without the hashtag, the slogan has had more than a million public interactions this month on Facebook.

And President Trump did his part. On Oct. 30 at 2:32 a.m., he told his 87.3 million Twitter followers: “Way ahead in Texas! Watch the Great Red Wave!”

Minutes later, he tweeted the hashtag #BidenCrimeFamiily, with a typo in the word “family.” That was it. No context, no link.

#BidenCrimeFamily, and the typo, is a crash course in how to rally supporters around a conspiracy theory — while neutering the attempts of social media companies to stop it. With the #StoptheSteal campaign, Mr. Trump is now using this same tactic to sow doubt about the integrity of the election.

It’s effective because it’s simple. The hashtag took a complicated issue with legitimate questions about Hunter Biden’s business dealings with Ukraine and China — and reduced it to a slogan that could also be used to spread falsehoods about Joe Biden. (An election-year investigation by Senate Republicans found no evidence of improper influence or wrongdoing by Mr. Biden.)

Constant repetition makes the charge sound true, and blunts accusations of unethical behavior against Mr. Trump’s own children. With the hashtag, Mr. Trump found a way to tell supporters: Here is all you need to know about the Democratic nominee.

And Mr. Trump’s typo? It was surely not accidental. That extra “i” circumvented Twitter’s efforts to hide the hashtag in search results. Called #typosquatting, this tactic is often used by trolls and media manipulators to get around the rules of social media platforms.

To understand the power of this disinformation campaign, let’s study its life cycle.

For more than a year, right-wing media and partisans have pushed “Biden crime family” as a viral slogan. Media manipulation campaigns are usually conjured in small, hidden spaces by a few operators with an agenda. But in this case, it was influential media and political personalities who got the ball rolling.

At the time, Mr. Biden had not yet won the Democratic nomination, and with so many other potential presidential contenders, disinformation about him tended to remain in the right-wing media ecosystem.

As the Biden campaign picked up steam, the slogan started showing up more in the spring and summer of 2020 on talk radio and social media.

In any manipulation campaign, the second stage involves campaign operators strategically spreading the hashtag across the media ecosystem.

In this case, the hashtag served two purposes: It made the phrase itself more common, and it amplified The New York Post’s Hunter Biden laptop report.

In early October, Rudy Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, used the hashtag repeatedly, hinting at what would later be revealed by The Post: that the F.B.I. had seized a computer that purportedly belonged to Hunter Biden.

Mr. Giuliani’s tweet, with the hashtag, served as a conduit for the story. People sharing the Post article used the hashtag to collate all the information across social media platforms.

The hashtag seeded itself on alternative social networking sites. It was popular on Parler, which advertises itself as a home for people censored by mainstream social media. By Monday, there were 21,000 “parleys,” or posts, using the term. It went viral on Gab, another fringe social network popular among the right, and was mentioned on 4chan’s “Politically Incorrect” board (a haven for far-right activists), Facebook, Reddit and thedonald.win, a popular former subreddit that got kicked off Reddit.

This effort became more urgent when Twitter took the rare step that day of blocking posts with the link to the Post article, explaining that it contained private information and hacked documents, which the company said violated its policies. (Twitter later reversed its decision.) People began tweeting #BidenCrimeFamily, accusing Twitter of censorship, and in some cases linking to another news site, GNews, that had also been pushing Hunter Biden disinformation.

GNews is part of GTV Media, which is linked to Mr. Bannon and the billionaire Guo Wengui, an opponent of the Chinese Communist Party. When the Post report didn’t receive enough attention, GNews pushed even harder.

In the past two weeks, GNews pushed salacious conspiracy theories about Hunter Biden, with videos and photos. Twitter accounts with “Himalaya” in the handle used the #BidenCrimeFamily hashtag to spread those photos across Twitter. Many of these accounts are now suspended.

On Oct. 16, The Daily Beast reported that these Himalaya accounts were a connected network affiliated with Mr. Bannon. Twitter confirmed to Foreign Policy magazine that it had taken down a network of connected accounts pushing Hunter Biden disinformation.

Despite the hashtag’s popularity on the right, it received little notice in the mainstream media. This is known as “hidden virality,” meaning something extremely popular in one part of the internet is going unnoticed by the mainstream news media.

The asymmetry of attention mirrored that of the Hunter Biden laptop story; while the far-right press was copiously covering it, mainstream news publications were much more careful, largely because most newsrooms were not given access to the documents. The few that were, like The Wall Street Journal, concluded the material wasn’t all that significant.

But since Oct. 14, conservative radio talk shows used the slogan in more than 150 broadcasts. One segment, from Larry Elder on Oct. 28, is simply titled, “The New York Post vs. the Biden Crime Family.” Conservative news outlets used the slogan in headlines. Pundits used it on TV. The phrase, repeated over and over, drilled into people’s heads the idea of Joe Biden’s corruption.

The more people hear something, the more likely they are to believe it, whether it’s true or not. And false news can spread further and faster than the truth, especially on social media. Mr. Trump seems to understand this.

That’s why it’s crucial to find ways to break the circuit of disinformation. Sometime between Oct. 14 and Oct. 16, Twitter tried.

While users could still tweet the hashtag #BidenCrimeFamily, Twitter stopped showing any results if the hashtag was clicked or searched. This strategy, called de-indexing, is a step short of censorship, and can be a powerful tool in reducing a hashtag’s ability to spread specific disinformation and to become a rallying place for coordinating action. Twitter did not respond to questions about this action.

Most social media, however, appears to have taken no action. We found no evidence of similar strategies on YouTube, Facebook, TikTok, or less moderated spaces, like Parler, Gab, and 4chan or 8kun (formerly known as 8chan), which cumulatively have had thousands of Biden Crime Family posts. Raki Wane, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the company took no direct action against the hashtag. All the social media platforms make it difficult to measure the reach of a hashtag like this, which leaves us in the dark about how far it spread and to whom.

Instagram, starting on Oct. 29, suppressed all recent results for every hashtag, showing only a few top posts rather than everything, which had the effect of slowing the spread of #BidenCrimeFamily in the final days of the election.

A hallmark of a successful disinformation campaign is adaptation — when proponents of the campaign adjust their tactics to get around efforts that journalists, government officials or tech companies have taken to stem its spread. On Oct. 16, campaign operators began adapting to Twitter’s curbs.

Finally, Mr. Trump tweeted the typosquatted hashtag the Friday before Election Day.

QAnon believers and anonymous trolls certainly took notice. Qanoners, enamored of numerology, read Mr. Trump’s tweet like a tarot card, interpreting its meaning in threads on 8kun.

Even though Parler or Gab did not censor the original hashtag, people posted the “ii” version of the hashtag there, too. Like all great memes, those who are in the know get it, while others assume it’s a dumb mistake.

Over the last few weeks, posters have used adaptations of the slogan. There was #BidenCrimeFamilly, #BidenCrimeFamilyExposed, #BidenCrimeSyndicate.

On Election Day, 17,000 people were posting about #BidenCrimeFamily on Facebook. On Twitter at midday, the slogan was being tweeted 3,500 times an hour.





No.35 article:
Amazon and Google’s True Advantage

These companies have mastered spending big to stay Big Tech.

This article is part of the On Tech newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it weekdays.

My colleagues wrote about the eye-popping sales numbers coming from America’s technology superstars, including Google, Facebook and Amazon. Their sales and profits this year, in the middle of a pandemic, are truly hard to fathom. It’s so much money, you guys.

But these companies also spend gobs of money, which in turn helps them make more money.

The ability to spend like crazy — because Big Tech has money and hardly anyone questions how the companies spend it — is one of the secrets to why the tech industry giants are so difficult to unseat.

A few examples: Amazon hired 250,000 full- and part-time employees — on average roughly 2,800 each day in the 90 days that ended in September — and then about 100,000 more people in October, the company said. Google has spent nearly $17 billion this year on things like hulking computer equipment — that’s about the same as Exxon’s comparable spending figure for digging oil and gas out of the ground.

Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg talked excitedly on Thursday about spending whatever it takes on futuristic projects like eyeglasses that overlay virtual images with the real world. Imagine walking down the street and seeing a virtual list of menu items for the taco shop on the corner.

Some of this stuff, yes, can immediately help companies generate more of those eye-popping sales and profits that my colleagues wrote about. When Amazon hires people to work in its warehouses or to drive trucks, those workers help push more packages to your door this Christmas.

But a lot of this stuff, honestly, who knows. What the heck is Apple cooking up in its research labs, on which it spent $19 billion in the last year? Can Facebook get us to buy into a future of our world mixed with virtual images? Are Amazon’s gazillions of new package warehouses, transportation depots and computer centers really justified? This is the kind of stuff that might never pay off.

And that’s one reason Big Tech is so different. Few large companies get mostly patted on the back for spending money in ways that may — or may not — pay off.

This is part of the ultimate dilemma about these technology giants that dominate our lives and often our leisure and work hours. They make tons of money, which means they have more money to stay on top. (Also, governments and competitors say these companies break the rules to advantage themselves at the expense of rivals, hurting consumers like us.)

One of the most cringe-inducing words in business is “moat.” What this means is a company has some unique advantage — a globally recognized brand name for Coca-Cola, or a unique technology that helps Uber move cars around efficiently — that gives it an unbreachable border of water filled with monsters.

It’s a terrible, overused piece of jargon. But the tech superstars have a moat. (Imagine me cringing as I typed that.) Their unique advantage is access to giant piles of money. And they’re using it to dig that watery trench of monsters even deeper.

SEND US YOUR QUESTIONS: We want to hear your election tech questions. What are you curious or concerned about related to how tech companies are handling election-related misinformation, or how secure America’s election technology is? Send your questions to ontech@nytimes.com, and we’ll answer a selection. Please include your full name and location.

Retailers really, really, really want you to start your holiday shopping early, because — well, read this about possible holiday package shipping delays. That means Black Friday and other preholiday sales have already started. The problem is, a lot of times when websites scream DEAL it’s not actually a good deal.

Nathan Burrow from The New York Times’s product review website, Wirecutter, has these tips to make sure we’re not getting fooled by something that promises a discount but is a bad buy:

Comparison shop: The hot item that the website says you can’t find for less anywhere else? Yeah, you probably can. Type the name of the product into a shopping search in your web browser. (If you’re considering a “flash” sale online, first add the item to your shopping cart. Often you have up to 15 minutes to check out, enough time to check on the price.)

Read the reviews: Customer reviews aren’t always reliable. So read up on a product that intrigues you from multiple publications — may I suggest Wirecutter? This isn’t a guarantee that you’re getting a good price, but it will help you avoid getting excited by a sale and buying a junk product.

Use (free!) shopping tools: Websites like CamelCamelCamel.com or Keepa will give you a useful, albeit imperfect, idea of how much a given item has sold for on Amazon over time. That’s a good indication of whether you’re getting a good deal right now, or can wait.

Even when you’re not shopping on Amazon, you can check whether the retailer’s price is a good deal by comparing it to how much the same product tends to sell for on Amazon.

Have an informed plan: Don’t believe the hype, be patient and know that there are good discounts to be found. You may just need to cut through the noise to find them.

The best moment of my week was reading this article about people who are obsessed with the $300 12-foot Halloween skeleton sold by Home Depot. (Also hello to this video of a Home Depot skeleton lashed to the roof of a Mini Cooper.)

We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think of this newsletter and what else you’d like us to explore. You can reach us at ontech@nytimes.com. 

If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, please sign up here.





No.36 article:
‘It’s Like Falling in Love’: Israeli Entrepreneurs Welcomed in Dubai

A high-profile delegation of Israeli innovators visited the United Arab Emirates soon after moves to normalize relations.

DUBAI — For years, Israeli entrepreneurs slipped in and out of the United Arab Emirates incognito, traveling on second passports or doing business through third parties.

So when more than two dozen Israeli high-tech executives turned up in Dubai recently, it was hard to miss them. Chatting away in Hebrew, they traipsed across the marbled expanses of the Dubai Mall and up to the V.I.P. observation deck atop the iconic Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building.

It had been less than six weeks since the Emirates and Bahrain, another Gulf Arab country, signed agreements to normalize relations with Israel and open up embassies. But this high-profile delegation of Israeli innovators was making a conspicuous entrance even before direct flights and other formal protocols had been established.

Their visit was an early outgrowth of a courtship between two sides that have been adversaries — at least publicly — for decades. But the speed with which the once-covert relationship burst into the open surprised even veteran insiders: The rancor of more than seven decades of Arab-Israeli conflict seemed to melt away in a matter of days.

When the Israeli executives delivered their pitches to major investors from Abu Dhabi, the Emirati capital, in a plush hotel ballroom late last month, the two sides clicked. The Emiratis sat attentively at round tables in gleaming white robes and headdresses, listening to presentations about cybersecurity and artificial intelligence and mingling during breaks.

To the amazement of the Israelis, the Emiratis seemed most interested in a presentation by Taly Nechushtan, the chief executive of Innovopro, a food tech company that extracts a plant-based protein from chickpeas.

“Who’d have thought?” Ms. Nechushtan said afterward, amused to have caused such a stir with a regional staple that is the main ingredient of hummus. But the Israelis had arrived at a moment when the coronavirus pandemic had disrupted trade and exposed one vulnerability of the United Arab Emirates: It imports up to 90 percent of its food.

“I think we were all hungry,” quipped Abubaker Seddiq Al Khoori, the chief executive of investment house Abu Dhabi Capital Group, adding that the vegan food sector fit well with his group’s investment strategy.

The Emirati investors also showed keen interest in a sensor presented by Yehonatan Ben Hamozeg, the founder of Agrint, an agriculture intelligence company. The sensor “listens” to palm trees and allows early detection of weevils that can eventually destroy the trees from the inside.

The United Arab Emirates has more than 40 million date palms, about a third of the world’s total. In a promising sign of future cooperation, a potential client invited Mr. Ben Hamozeg, whose sensor has been under testing for a year in the Emirates through an American subsidiary, to visit his private farm.

Another of the Emirati investors, Mohamed Mandeel, the chief operating officer of Abu Dhabi’s Royal Strategic Partners group, said he felt a sense of kinship with the Israelis. He recounted how he had taken a DNA test and found a match for his rare Babylonian gene in Tel Aviv.

“If we set aside the religious ideologies and 70 years fueled by conflict, wars and the media, we end up with human beings,” he said in an interview. “We share the same food, the same DNA, the same look,” he added, describing the Israelis as “cousins.”

Dazzled by the skyscrapers of Dubai rising up, Las Vegas-like, from the desert and warmed by the friendly embrace, the Israelis said the encounter felt like a dream come true, unlike any they had experienced in the Arab world before.

Erel Margalit, the Israeli venture capitalist and former lawmaker who led the delegation, was invited to the studios of the government-owned Dubai TV to appear as a guest on “Message for Peace,” a program aired in Arabic and English, and anchored by Youssef Abdulbari, a popular presenter. It was filmed against a panoramic backdrop of the Dubai and Tel Aviv skylines.

Mr. Abdulbari said off-camera that it was the first time they had hosted an Israeli.

“You can say it’s like falling in love,” Mr. Abdulbari said, describing the buzz in the studios and the intriguing sense of novelty.

Speaking on television in visionary terms, Mr. Margalit said that after London, Paris and New York, the place Israeli entrepreneurs most longed to reach was their own region.

“We are hoping to be able to do together something that is grand,” he added.

Mr. Margalit, the founder and chairman of J.V.P., a Jerusalem-based venture capital fund, had chartered a private plane from Tel Aviv to Dubai and filled it with businesspeople and reporters for the four-day visit.

His entourage included executives from 13 of the fund’s hottest portfolio companies, most of whom were visiting Dubai for the first time. Some were veterans of elite intelligence and technological units in the Israeli military.

On the flight over, he described the Emirates as a potential gateway to vast new markets with billions of people. Beyond the potential for investment of Emirati oil riches in Israeli companies, he envisaged a deeper partnership of Israel’s cutting-edge technology with the Emiratis’ knowledge and reach based on a long history of doing business from the Middle East to Africa and South Asia.

Once they arrived, it quickly became apparent that the Israeli delegation and the Emiratis were well-matched in terms of ambition and enterprise.

A welcome letter slipped under the hotel room doors of the Israeli guests bore the Hebrew greeting “Shalom aleichem.” Signed by the local chairman of the hotel’s ownership, it also invited them to be in touch to explore business opportunities together.

In contrast to Israel’s decades-old “cold peace” with Egypt and Jordan, this relationship felt different. With those countries, few business connections have been made, and the Israeli tourists who do venture over are wary of speaking Hebrew in public.

One big difference is that the Israelis and Emiratis never fought a war, so the relationship comes without the emotional baggage of defeat and bloodshed.

The under-the-radar ties grew over decades out of a burgeoning alliance of Israel and the Gulf Arab states against their common enemy, Iran. Much has been done since the normalization deals were inked, in the final weeks leading up to the U.S. election as President Trump amped up pressure to notch a few final foreign policy achievements.

Israeli and Emirati officials have already exchanged visits and signed agreements for the protection of investments, civil aviation and reciprocal visa exemptions to support business and tourism.

David Meidan, a former senior official of the Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency, first visited the Emirates with his boss in 2005. He has since turned to doing business there, and joined the J.V.P. delegation. Mr. Margalit credited him with helping to pave the way for the newcomers.

“For me, this is closing a circle,” Mr. Meidan said.

J.V.P. delegates also met with government ministers, although the only such gathering to be publicized was with the minister of state for food security.

Some of the Israeli executives were whisked off for discreet meetings with sheikhs over late-night lamb dinners, on boats to island mansions or in jeeps on desert romps. But there were no instant deals to be made: The Emiratis are known to be cautious in business, and one Israeli company had already been under review there for 18 months.

The Emiratis also took security precautions, with young plainclothes officers discreetly following the Israelis throughout the visit. The security-minded Israelis remarked about how safe they felt, even when walking alone in the alleys of Dubai’s gold and spice markets emptied of tourists by the pandemic.

Merchants from Afghanistan and elsewhere greeted the visitors with enthusiasm after inquiring about where they were from.

“Come, we need you!” urged one trinket seller, volunteering that he was from Iran, just across the waters of the Gulf.

The symbolism was not lost on Dror Liwer, a senior Israeli executive at Coronet, a company that offers cyberdefense based on artificial intelligence. His father, he said, had traded in arms with Iran before the Islamic Revolution of 1979.

“Now I’m here because my enemy’s enemy is a friend,” he said.





No.37 article:
How to Serve Your Guests Safely at Your Reception

With crowded dance floors and open bars largely gone during the coronavirus pandemic, food has become more of a focal point at weddings.

Words we never get tired of hearing at weddings are often open bar and buffet. But thanks to the coronavirus the open part is temporarily closed, and the buffet has gone solo.

“Social distancing and safety guidelines have made everyone rethink the way we curate what guests consume,” said Amy Shey Jacobs, the owner of Chandelier Events, an event planning company in New York. “It’s made us tap into our creativity and develop new tools and tricks to deliver elegant, whimsical and decadent solutions where everything is individually served and packaged.”

Rather than taking a back seat, food has become more of a focal point at weddings.

“A wedding without food wasn’t an option, it’s part of sharing an event together,” said David Guggenheim, 40, chief behavioral health officer at Callen-Lorde Community Health Center in New York. He married Michael Bosworth, 42, a partner in Latham &amp; Watkins, an international law firm, on Aug. 22 at a friend’s home in Avon, Conn.

Each of the couple’s 20 guests received a catered picnic basket and monogrammed blanket. “We wanted to serve something where guests could sit far enough away from others and still feel like part of the party,” Mr. Guggenheim said. “It was a nice thing to share and give people to take home afterward.” The baskets, prepared by Tyler Anderson, a contestant on the TV show “Top Chef,” contained biscuits, roast chicken, macaroni and cheese, grilled summer vegetables, German potato salad and a mini bottle of Champagne. Rainbow cake push pops were a substitute for sliced wedding cake.

Those clinging to more traditional settings are swapping bar service with signature cocktails presented by masked servers. And they’re saying goodbye to the ubiquitous communal bowl of nuts or crudités and dip. In its place are separately wrapped nibbles, like honey-glazed roasted bacon strips, truffle popcorn and homemade taro chips. “A bar snack is a different food experience than passed canapés,” said Jason Mitchell Kahn, the owner of Jason Mitchell Kahn and Company, an event planning company in New York. “You’re not waiting for a server to get to you, and it’s a way to make people feel as though they’re having a bar experience.”

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

With dancing largely at a standstill and entertainment taking a pause, cuisine is now considered the evening activity. “Most weddings have a cocktail hour and a three-course meal: appetizer, entree and dessert,” Ms. Jacobs said, noting that this structure had worked for pre-pandemic weddings because it fostered a smart timeline for dancing and toasts. “With Covid, everything is backward,” he said. “We want guests to stay seated longer, in smaller groups, and we want to avoid crowding at the bar.”

Caterers and planners are now suggesting five-course tasting menus with wine pairings. “This makes it more like a luxurious dinner party, which, given the smaller size of weddings right now, feels appropriate and intimate,” Mr. Kahn said.

These extended feasts can linger for two to four hours and give the evening structure and flow. Courses can be broken up with toasts and video montages, Ms. Jacobs said. She added that “the menus offer more detailed explanations about the food and the wine pairings so there’s an educational element as well. It’s an immersive experience.”

Caterers are also embracing these challenges. “The content is the same so the couple feel we’re providing something they originally wanted, but the preparation and visual execution is different,” said Jeffrey Selden, a managing partner at Marcia Selden Catering &amp; Events, in Stamford, Conn. “We’re creating new design aesthetics and presentations, and finding new places to source products. And everything is customized so people feel special and thought about.”

Among the changes: personalized stickers and labels let guests know something has been sealed and not tampered with and boxes of appetizers with names engraved on the outside. The appetizers are “served room temperature so you don’t have to worry about it going from hot to cold and being compromised,” Mr. Selden said, and they “work as both safe presentation and a take-home gift.”

Visual staging to highlight safety precautions is also being added. Don’t be surprised if you spot servers wearing colored gloves to signify a different food being presented, or if an individual glass dome resting on a beautifully designed tray is removed before you reach for something small and edible. “These have been added to protect hors d’oeuvres from touching one another and guests from touching the food,” Mr. Selden said. Embroidered masks with the name of a dish and aprons sporting the list of ingredients reduce verbal communication between wait staff and guests.

Couples are embracing the food focus. “We changed our venue from the Harold Pratt House to the Foundry, which only had inside seating, so the focus could be on the food and an outdoor setting,” said Dr. Anastasia Grivoyannis, 35, of Baltimore. She married Brian Pujanauski, 37, a data scientist with Mastercard, on Sept. 20. “We splurged on the catering and multicourse meal because we went from 250 people to 43,” she said, “and because a Greek wedding is about no one leaving hungry.”

And no one apparently did. The affair, catered by Thomas Preti Events to Savor, featured 17-layer crepes and caviar that were paired with Ketel One vodka shots, hamburger sliders served with shots of pale ale, and fish tacos with shots of tequila. Each was presented during cocktail hour before to the five-course meal.

“This was a big hit,” said Dr. Grivoyannis, a pediatric anesthesiologist at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. “It was empowering to make people feel safe and comfortable.”

She said guests felt more in control. “They didn’t have to get in a line or stand next to someone who wasn’t part of their group,” she added. “They were able to avoid congregating at the bar and didn’t have to wait, which was ingenious.”

And yes, the cake is still being cut, but many event planners say they aren’t serving it. Instead, self-contained boxed cakes, small pies, decorative cookies are being handed out. Or the desserts are finding you.

“One of my recent weddings had four dessert carts,” Mr. Kahn said, with mini treats presented on separate shelves, like strawberry panna cotta, tiramisù, spice cake and chocolate tarts. “We wanted the flexibility to reach guests wherever they were while creating the sensation of a buffet,” he said. “The visual of the cart rolling was theatrical and the desserts were beautiful.”

For Dr. Grivoyannis, presentation was everything. “What’s under the tray or what’s in the mobile cart turned our meal and eating into an adventure and exploration,” she said. “It took away the mental processing of, ‘Is it safe to eat this?’ It put Covid in the back of their minds. The wedding became their first thought. They were able to lean in and enjoy themselves.”

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.38 article:
In the Rising Voices of 10 Young Poets, a Call for Change

The special project Young Black Poets showcases a promising new generation of writers whose verses respond to this moment in America.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

Samuel Getachew, 17, believes poetry can be a catalyst for change and can help people understand one another. A spoken word poet and Oakland’s 2019 Youth Poet Laureate, he wrote “justice for — ” which reflected his emotions about America’s unrest. In the first half of the work, he wrote:

Audre Lorde, the poet laureate of New York State in 1991, once said, “Poetry is the way we help give name to the nameless so it can be thought.” Mr. Getachew and several other young Black poets across the country are lending their voices to those who may not feel heard and are amplifying emotions within their communities, while also finding coping mechanisms through creativity.

The Times special project Young Black Poets, which published online last month and features Mr. Getachew and nine others, focuses on the works of poets ages 12 to 19 and shows how a new generation is responding to the current climate in America. The project, which includes interviews and recordings of the poets reading their works, is a collaboration among the Culture desk, the Special Sections desk and the Surfacing team, which specializes in major visual projects. It’s also part of From Here, a Times collection that showcases visually immersive stories about communities.

The effort began early this summer. Jaspal Riyait, the art director who played a significant role in choosing the poets, credits the photo editor Sandra Stevenson and her son, now 20, as driving forces behind the idea. The Times colleagues spent time discussing the ways in which Ms. Stevenson’s son was coping through art. That led the teams to ponder how young people nationwide were dealing with current events, especially the social justice uprising.

“If you’re a young adult, this is the first time in your life where you’re seeing this collective response on this national level,” Ms. Riyait said. “We started looking at a very particular time when young minds are molding and forming and not being influenced but being an influencer. And I think that was really important.”

Realizing that poetry was one of the main avenues of expression for young people, the team reached out to arts organizations around the country like UrbArts in St. Louis, and viewed events held by groups like Young Chicago Authors.

Starting in June, Ms. Riyait and the team did more research online, looking at the various poet laureates across the country, spending time reading their poems and watching their videos. “It was a very deep enjoyable rabbit hole.” she said.

Many of the selected poets participated in local youth poetry organizations, performed nationally, produced elaborate videos of their work and competed at various festivals.

As part of the project, I interviewed all 10 poets about their writing process, their inspiration and why poetry matters now.

Inari Williams, 18, who is also a rapper, said some of his inspiration came from talking with people less fortunate than others. “The homeless population in Chicago is very large, and sometimes I run into homeless people and they just want to be heard,” he said. “I try to give them a voice through my art.”

Many of them expressed to me that they felt they had a responsibility to their communities to speak about the issues and injustices of those around them. They submitted poems for the project that focus on the Black Lives Matter movement, women’s rights, L.G.B.T.Q. rights, what it means to be Black in America, police brutality, gun violence, the pandemic and self-care.

Leila Mottley, 18, of Oakland, Calif., who recently landed a book deal with Knopf, said, “I’m often contemplating girlhood and Black girlhood and what it means to attempt to find joy and family and community in situations that call for basic survival.”

When I asked William Lohier, 19, of Brooklyn, why he thought poetry matters in this moment, he said that poetry had mattered in every moment and that the issues that he and others have confronted this year were the issues that every Black poet he knows has been thinking about since they started writing poetry.

“I see poetry ultimately,” he said, “as a tool for Black liberation.”





No.39 article:
It Had Aerialists, Fire Eaters and Glitter. Is Brooklyn’s Wildest Party Over?

It was just a year ago that Jacquelyn Feliciano and Jonathan McDonald were swinging upside down through the sticky, neon-colored air at House of Yes.

Years of performing together as Queen Ravenden and Jon Joñi had made the gig almost ordinary for the aerial duo — covered in glitter and dancing with their limbs intertwined above hundreds of enthralled partygoers.

But when the city shut down in March to stop the spread of the coronavirus, so did House of Yes. The club, set on a formerly industrial stretch of Bushwick, had grown from a self-described “hippie-punk squat” in 2007 to a vital part of New York City’s queer nightlife scene, with about 100 employees on the payroll.

As quarantine set in, everyone from the bartenders to the bouncers to the event producers had to be let go. The co-founders and owners, Kae Burke and Anya Sapozhnikova, also had to furlough the resident troupe of pole dancers, aerialists, go-go dancers, fire breathers, stilt walkers and clowns.

It’s unclear when the club will be able to operate at full capacity again, and whether aerialists or fire breathers will be able to translate their art for a new era, whatever that may be. So the question lingers: How will live performances even fit in?

“Performers typically need a stage, they need a place that presents their art form and that audiences can come to,” Ms. Burke said. “To save venues is to save the entire ecosystem of nightlife, including our performance artists.”

Mr. McDonald, Ms. Feliciano and Scott Dennis, who performs in drag as Madame Vivien V, were just a few of the House of Yes regulars who were deeply disoriented as businesses in New York City shuttered. In the years before the pandemic, all three were hired off the club’s dance floor: Mr. Dennis, a frequent attendee who stood out in the crowd, would work the door in drag, while Ms. Feliciano and Mr. McDonald got their starts spinning in go-go cages that dangle above the dance floor.

Many of the House of Yes resident performers were used to doing shows several nights a week, as the club hosted multiple events each night on almost every night of the year. Yet once March 13 hit, there was nothing to do there, and no one to perform for.

“I was really mourning my performance career,” Mr. McDonald said. “I miss my friends, and performing, and the live stage and having the energy of the audience there.”

Other troupe members — Blaine Petrovia, Allegra Meshuggah and Pixel — were touring with House of Yes’s Blunderland Variety Show. It was in Australia that they performed their last shows at nearly empty clubs.

“It was really weird,” Mr. Petrovia said, “because the main thing about performing is the energy of the audience and the people in the space with you.”

Peter Mercury, a nonbinary aerialist and go-go dancer at the club, was also out of the city, producing a House of Yes-inspired party on a cruise ship. The ship was sailing through the Bermuda Triangle, of all places, when quarantine set in, and on the same night that House of Yes shut down, the cruise ship had one last hurrah.

“We still threw this party, and did aerial, and had all the bells and whistles,” Mx. Mercury said. “It was kind of like the last party on earth.”

As soon as House of Yes shut down in March, Ms. Burke and Ms. Sapozhnikova started a GoFundMe campaign to support their staff, and the club eventually reopened in July with food and an outdoor bar.

But in August, House of Yes closed again when its liquor license was suspended over violations relating to the state’s mandates that food be served with each drink order. Ms. Burke and Ms. Sapozhnikova have since created a Patreon account for the club, which offers playlists, virtual dance parties and remote classes taught by the resident performers. But it is a pale imitation of the chaotic, blissful queer energy of House of Yes at its peak.

Last fall, costumed partygoers entering House of Yes would be overwhelmed by glitter and neon and booming disco — or house, hip-hop or whatever music fit that night’s theme. But the 20 or so members of the club’s performance troupe were what made each party something different. Every night, attendees were treated to celebratory performances of queerness that carried an emotional weight not often found in dance clubs the size of an airplane hangar.

“Here I’m able to do the more artistic performances that I wouldn’t be able to do in a club in Manhattan,” Mr. Petrovia, the resident pole dancer, said last November.

“What Blaine is trying to say is that he gets to be sad here, and he can’t do that anywhere else,” said Ms. Meshuggah, who works as House of Yes’s neocabaret clown. “He wants to put on a sad song, dance to FKA Twigs and cry on a pole. And you can’t do that everywhere, but you can do that here.”

Joshua Oates, who is known onstage as Pixel, performed at House of Yes for nearly four years as an aerialist drag queen.

“We’ve grown to this point, to 2019, hearing primarily straight white stories,” Mr. Oates said last fall. “You know: Boy meets girl, they fall in love, happily ever after. But I want to tell my story as a queer person, and a lot of people haven’t had the privilege to do that.”

Today, the performers are keeping the club’s energy alive as they paint their faces and spin on poles from home, hoping to bridge the gap until they can swing from the balconies and rafters of the venue once more.

“That’s what we’re asking our policymakers to do,” Ms. Burke said. “If they care about culture, they will make moves and figure out how to, at least, let these places hibernate until it’s safe for them to operate again.”

Now in their seventh month of exile, House of Yes residents have become accustomed to looking for new ways to perform.

Ms. Sapozhnikova did say there was a benefit to taking a break: “The slowing down of everything got everyone to be way more thoughtful about their own work.”

Mr. Dennis has taken this time to stretch his creative boundaries.

“Even though I’ve been doing this for eight years, I didn’t really know the kind of artist that I was,” Mr. Dennis said. “We were all becoming very individually focused, and we were all — I felt — maybe becoming too comfortable, too settled into the work. What this time has forced us to do, as creatives, is find alternative routes to entertain.”

Madame Vivien V is now doing delivery performances on people’s streets and driveways; Queen Ravenden and Jon Joñi are still recording aerial routines (and Queen is using her extra free time to create homeopathic herbal blends); Blaine Petrovia teaches twerking and pole dancing via his Instagram page; Pixel does makeup and dance tutorials on a new Patreon account; Allegra Meshuggah is planning a cross-country road trip; and Peter Mercury, who returned to New York this summer after being quarantined on a remote island in Thailand — has been recharging.

“I’ve been focusing on listening, and incubating and dreaming up a really optimistic future,” Mx. Mercury said. “As an artist, it’s so important to put forward a really optimistic worldview and hope other people join in.”

Though the future is hazy at best, both owners have full faith that House of Yes and Brooklyn’s club scene will prevail.

“Nightlife will survive,” Ms. Burke said, “but not all venues will, unfortunately, and that’s what hurts and feels very unfair.”

This pandemic isn’t the first catastrophe that the venue has faced. Ms. Burke and Ms. Sapozhnikova started House of Yes in 2007 as a collaborative living and work space in the original location on Troutman Street, but in 2008, a blue corn tortilla caught fire and set a monster puppet ablaze, burning the building down.

Operating in a rapidly gentrifying part of Bushwick meant that the political at the club was never far from the hedonistic, and long before this year, the staff routinely organized food drives, drug safety trainings and other forms of community support. Most recently, in response to the protests this summer against police brutality, House of Yes performers and regulars have been fund-raising for Black trans people.

“You’re not just here to get onstage and sell booze,” Mr. Dennis said last fall. “Two and a half years ago I was gay-bashed in the neighborhood, and I was able to create a performance around it and able to talk about it onstage.”

But until the club is safe again, its spirit will have to live offstage.

“The symbol of House of Yes as a place of radical expression and acceptance is going to endure,” Mr. Dennis said. “It’s still a space where everyone is accepted, and it’s still a space where creativity is the most valuable form of currency.”





No.40 article:
For Millions Deep in Student Loan Debt, Bankruptcy Is No Easy Fix

With two mortgages, three children and $83,000 in student loan debt, the financial strain finally became too much for George A. Johnson and Melanie Raney-Johnson.

New bills kept piling up: The couple had to buy another car when Mr. Johnson wrecked one in a snowstorm, but their insurance didn’t fully pay off the totaled vehicle. Old debts never seemed to get any smaller, either: A mortgage modification they spent months working on fell through when the bank lost their paperwork.

And their student debt, an albatross born of aspiration, grew heavier each month.

Bankruptcy was the only way out.

“It was not an easy decision,” Ms. Raney-Johnson said of filing for bankruptcy in 2011. “It was a feeling of despair, for sure.”

Bankruptcy gives over 700,000 debtors a fresh start every year. Bills for credit cards and medical expenses can be wiped away by a few strokes of a judge’s pen, and debts that don’t vanish are reduced.

But student loan debts don’t go away as easily. For decades, politicians have slowly made them harder to discharge, while differing standards in courts across the country mean a debtor’s chances can depend on where he or she lives.

The few debtors who attempt it are subjected to a morality play unlike anything else in the world of personal finance: so-called adversary proceedings, where they must lay themselves bare in court as opposing lawyers question how much they pay for lunch or give to their church.

The Johnsons tried anyway. They had borrowed about $45,000 for Mr. Johnson’s degree in sociology at the University of St. Mary in Kansas and Ms. Raney-Johnson’s pursuit of a bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Davis. Unable to pay, they had received permission to put off their payments, but their balance nearly doubled as interest charges continued to pile up.

Mr. Johnson lost his job after they filed for bankruptcy and, unable to afford a lawyer, Ms. Raney-Johnson prepared their case. She remembers how she felt when they arrived at the Robert J. Dole Federal Courthouse in Kansas City, Kan., on a sunny September day seven years ago.

“My heart was beating, and I was sweating,” said Ms. Raney-Johnson, now in her mid-40s and a billing supervisor for a federal agency.

In 2015, the year the Johnsons got their ruling, 884,956 personal bankruptcy cases flowed through the courts. Only 674 sought to discharge student debt, according to a recent analysis by Jason Iuliano, assistant law professor at Villanova University.

The New York Times reviewed dozens of cases in which a judge issued a published opinion — the Bankruptcy Class of 2015 — to understand the pains and payoffs five years later. Some debtors are on a better course. But for others, the struggles never went away — or came back after they thought they were free.

Bankruptcy begins with debt, and student loans are the second-biggest form of household debt in the United States. More than 43 million borrowers hold over $1.6 trillion in student loans, a sum that has more than tripled in 13 years. It exceeds what Americans owe on credit cards or auto loans and trails only mortgages.

Sixty-two percent of students who graduated from nonprofit colleges in 2019 had student loan debt, according to an Institute for College Access &amp; Success analysis. Their average balance was $28,950 — not including borrowing by their parents.

Many struggle mightily to pay: Before the government’s coronavirus relief efforts paused federal student loan payments, 7.7 million borrowers were in default and nearly two million others were seriously behind.

The solution has been a public-policy patch job.

About eight million additional borrowers use income-driven repayment plans, which can be challenging to enter. And while the plans lower payments, borrowers accrue interest on the unpaid difference. The debt is eventually forgiven — usually after 20 or 25 years — but the forgiven amount is taxable income.

A related program forgives the federal student loan debts of public-service workers, tax free, after 10 years, but it has been deeply troubled. Borrowers have made payments for years only to learn they were in the wrong kind of payment plan. It got so bad that Congress had to create a separate pot of money to try to fix it.

The election could give momentum to a change: President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. — who supported a 2005 law that made private student loans harder to discharge — has vowed to change the loan rule back if elected. But few Republicans have voiced support for a plan to change bankruptcy rules. A House bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative John Katko of New York, but the Senate’s version, led by Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, has only Democratic support.

All the student debt poses a problem. Its weight, experts say, has macroeconomic effects, dragging on homeownership and small-business formation. But the fallout goes beyond simple economics.

There is also a mental toll.

Noelle DeLaet earned a bachelor of fine arts degree from Nebraska Wesleyan University in 2008 — the teeth of the Great Recession. She tacked on another year for a degree in English to make herself more attractive to employers. Perhaps in publishing, she thought.

She left school with $110,000 in debt: roughly $27,000 from the federal government and the rest in private loans co-signed by her mother. The $810 monthly bill, set to climb when the payment plan on one private loan expired, soon overwhelmed her.

Ms. DeLaet, now 34, landed in the child welfare field as a foster care review specialist in Lincoln, Neb. — rewarding, but not lucrative. She sent out hundreds of résumés for better-paying jobs and pleaded with her lenders to reduce her payments. Soon, the creditors started in on her mother and put her on the verge of bankruptcy, too.

Ms. DeLaet’s breaking point came in May 2012 when she ran up against the $4,000 limit on her credit card while trying to buy a burrito at a Mexican grocery. She felt so helpless at times that she considered suicide.

“I looked all over Google for some sort of support group for others going through this,” Ms. DeLaet said. “I felt like there was no way out.”

When Ms. DeLaet squared off in court against her student-loan creditors, they quibbled with the $12 she spent each month on recycling. She should have tried harder for a promotion, they argued. Or moved somewhere else for more money.

Judge Thomas L. Saladino bristled at that idea. In his opinion, he wrote that she lived in the state’s second-largest city, “as good a place as any to seek a better-paying job.”

The judge discharged about $119,000 in private loans, and an additional $23,000 was forgiven by one of her lenders. But her $27,000 in federal loans stuck: She’s paying those back through an income-driven repayment plan costing about $260 a month. Because she works at a nonprofit, her debt should eventually disappear via the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.

For Ms. DeLaet, the process was worth it: She has married her boyfriend, had two children and bought a home. Her mother is an “amazing” grandmother, she said, although they still cannot discuss the past.

“It is an untouchable subject,” she said.

The transformation in the bankruptcy rules began in 1976, with unfounded rumors.

A handful of legislators claimed to have heard about a parade of young doctors and lawyers who were trying to game the system and shed their debts while embarking on lucrative careers. The lawmakers toughened the rules, largely preventing borrowers from seeking a discharge within five years of graduation. The rules only got tougher over the next three decades.

Borrowers must show that their student loans are an “undue hardship” — a standard interpreted differently, depending on where you live. Some judicial circuits, including those in Nebraska, where Ms. DeLaet filed, have the judge review a “totality of the circumstances” for the debtor and make a decision.

Other jurisdictions employ a less flexible standard, the Brunner test, named for the case that established it. Judges must answer three questions affirmatively to discharge the debt. First, has the debtor made a good-faith effort to repay the loans? Second, is the debtor unable to maintain a minimal standard of living while making the payments? And, finally, is the debtor’s situation likely to persist?

But even jurisdictions that use the Brunner test apply it differently. Some require the judge to find that the borrowers have a “certainty of hopelessness” in paying off their debt. Other jurisdictions do not.

Here, the Johnsons may have benefited from geographic good fortune.

Lawyers for the Educational Credit Management Corporation — a nonprofit that collects defaulted loans on behalf of the federal government — examined how the Johnsons spent their $2,100 monthly income.

Every expense was scrutinized, including Ms. Raney-Johnson’s $35 monthly union dues, her $100 retirement contribution and $215 to repay loans from her retirement plan. None, the nonprofit’s lawyers argued, were necessary to maintain a “minimal standard of living.”

In his opinion — written more than a year after hearing arguments — Judge Robert D. Berger disagreed. He wrote that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, which covers Kansas, had shifted from the most rigid interpretation of the three-part test, which he described as “an unfortunate relic.”

Judge Berger wasn’t sure how the Johnsons were subsisting at all based on their income, and he said courts shouldn’t rely on “unfounded optimism” about a debtor’s future.

“It is disconsonant with public policy and bankruptcy’s fresh start to leave debtors in virtual lifetime servitude to student loans,” he wrote.

The judge discharged their student loans: $83,000 in debt, wiped away.

“I was ecstatic,” Ms. Raney-Johnson said of the moment she received the decision letter. “I probably said some curse words.”

Their good fortune didn’t last.

Opposing lawyers — whether they work for the federal government or for private lenders — are tenacious. Their approach can feel like bullying, if not humiliation.

When Pamela Monroe went to an Arkansas bankruptcy court in 2015, she was 57 with a student-loan balance of about $56,000. She was working in the fragrance section of a Dillard’s department store, and her lunch habits — like $6.10 at Taco Bell and $12.72 at Olive Garden — were a focus of intense interest.

Eating out, Ms. Monroe testified, was her primary form of recreation and a midday necessity: Co-workers would sometimes steal colleagues’ lunches from the break room.

“They laughed about that when I told them,” she said. “I felt at that moment like I was a cornered animal and they were poking sticks at me.”

Ms. Monroe said she had spent her life making choices that others seemed to dictate — marrying two years out of high school and becoming a mother, as her parents seemed to want. After two divorces, she reached for higher education in a bid for independence.

She graduated from the University of Arkansas-Fort Smith with a communications degree and pursued a master’s in speech language pathology. She didn’t finish that program, leaving her with the debt but not the advanced degree. And she couldn’t seem to break out of low-paying work.

“I would have loved to pay them back,” Ms. Monroe said. “But I never could, because nobody ever saw any value in me.”

Judge Ben Barry found Ms. Monroe’s restaurant spending excessive, but noted that she had changed jobs frequently seeking higher pay. Her income, he wrote in his opinion, about doubled between 2010 and 2015, to over $26,000.

But even a reduced budget he outlined would not leave her enough money to make her student loan payments, so he discharged just over half of her student loans.

She would most likely have been paying that off until she was in her 80s. But last year, Ms. Monroe, now 63 and dealing with osteoarthritis and other health problems, received a disability discharge for the rest of her debt.

Now all she wants to do is live out her days in her $510-a-month apartment in a retirement community. “It has a sprinkler system and an elevator, very safe,” she said.

But she hasn’t stopped thinking about the way the system and its actors — like the lawyer on the opposite side in her case — seemed to render judgment on her life choices.

“I didn’t do anything wrong,” she said. “I was just living, but I got in trouble for eating.”

In 2016, the Johnsons learned their loan discharge was being appealed by lawyers for Educational Credit Management Corporation.

Paradoxically, they were worse off because their financial situation had improved: Ms. Raney-Johnson earned a promotion, and Mr. Johnson, now in his mid-40s like his wife, found a stable government job. A year after discharging their loans, Judge Berger concluded that the couple could now “easily” maintain a minimal standard of living and reinstated their debt — which had ballooned even more because of interest charges.

Preparing to send their own children to college, the Johnsons requested another forbearance. Their balance continues to grow: It’s roughly $104,000 today.

Ms. Raney-Johnson took the final class she needed for her biology degree over the summer. But the debt was already piling up for the next generation. Their oldest, a college sophomore, expects to owe about $45,000 when she graduates. Their middle child, a high school senior, is looking at colleges now. Ms. Raney-Johnson said she and her husband — who are putting about $5,000 a year toward their daughter’s tuition — would try to remain in forbearance for now.

In August, they received a notice about an income-driven repayment plan, which would start out costing about $550 a month. From there, the cost depends on many factors, including job changes, raises and eligibility for forgiveness programs. If they’re able to get into the public service program, the debt could go away a decade after they start paying. If not, the bills could continue coming for about 20 years — right around the time the Johnsons will be trying to retire.

The experience, Ms. Raney-Johnson said, has been “disheartening.” She and her husband had run up against opposition that could keep going with little regard for time or expense, knowing that they couldn’t.

“It feels like getting screwed over by someone with a lot more power and money,” she said.





No.41 article:
The C.E.O. Who Promised There Would Be No Layoffs

When the pandemic hit, Mastercard’s chief executive, Ajay Banga, made a promise to the company’s 19,000 employees: There would be no layoffs as a result of the economic destruction wrought by the virus.

It was a decision he could afford to make. During his 10 years as chief executive, Mr. Banga vastly expanded the company’s reach. Revenues roughly tripled, and profits quadrupled.

Mr. Banga says he didn’t achieve these results simply by managing for the short term. When he took over in 2010, he told investors that he would not be giving quarterly earnings guidance. Instead, he offered investors a rolling forecast of where Mastercard would be in three years, and set to work striking new partnerships around the globe.

The strategy worked. Mastercard stock has soared by more than 1,000 percent during his tenure, outperforming competitors Visa and American Express.

The pandemic has taken a toll on the company. Consumer spending plummeted early in the year as businesses closed and people stayed home. The company’s share price plunged 40 percent, though it has since recovered.

And despite being able to protect his employees’ jobs, the overall situation is making for a tumultuous end to Mr. Banga’s run. In February, the company announced that he would step down at the end of the year.

This interview was condensed and edited for clarity.

Tell me about growing up in India as the son of an Army general.

I grew up moving city to city. Adults find it hard to move, but kids don’t. In fact, moving frequently makes you flexible, quick to make friends, quick to adjust and adapt, allows you to glide between cultures and people. Because different parts of India are completely different cultures. The North is completely different from the East and the West. This is completely different than even in the South. The states are different. Languages are different. Dresses are different. Movies are different. The one thing it did for me more than anything else was this easy adaptability, the willingness to adjust and the willingness to just fit in, I think it’s helped me in all my life.

How has your background as a Sikh influenced the way you approach your work in the business world?

The Sikh religion is a very simple philosophy. The first few words of the book are, “There is only one God, and that God is truth.” Once you get that in your head clearly you stop worrying about your God, my God. There is only one God, and that is about speaking the truth. And I have tried through my life to care about that topic. I haven’t done it perfectly. I make mistakes in my personal life. I make mistakes in my professional life. But I try to admit those mistakes and then try and get back to this logic of there is only one God, and that God is truth. That concept of humility and having your feet on the ground all comes from the principles of the religion, which were all about helping the weaker person and rewarding yourself by taking care of others.

So that’s one part of it. The other part of it is the way I look. If you look like me and you work as a C.E.O. in the United States, you’ve got to be able to use the fact that you are different in a constructive way. I found my way through it by using it as a way to engage people, to explain to them why I look different, rather than feeling like I’ve got something to prove. I’ve got nothing to prove. I am who I am.

Have you experienced discrimination as a result of the way you look?

Never in a professional environment in the United States. In my personal life, post-9/11, I have been accosted by people on the street and called names. I’ve been taken aside randomly for searching at every T.S.A. checkpoint. I get that. But again, you can be pissed off about it, or you can realize that this is people trying to do their job. They’re trying to keep me safe as well as you. But I’m not resentful.

You spent much of your early career working for Nestle and Pepsi in India. What did you learn from those experiences that has stuck with you?

You’ve got to be ready for the unexpected. When I was a young manager in India, infrastructure was relatively poor. Labor relations were challenged. Phone lines were awful. You couldn’t get through to people. You couldn’t get through to a distributor. If you were waiting for baby food trucks to reach you, it wasn’t that you knew it would arrive in three days. It could take nine days. Power would go off for five days. You couldn’t get through on a phone to your own people. So that idea of knowing how to deal with ambiguity, of knowing how to deal with that form of unpredictability, it’s the way I’m trained to think.

You’re never going to get it right every time, because you’re going to make mistakes, you’re going to make decisions without full information. So the idea of taking thoughtful risks came from that environment. And having the sense of urgency to make that decision and take that risk without knowing everything, but having had the patience at the same time to listen to people who know more than you — that is an interesting balance.

How have you balanced the short-term pressures of running a public company with what’s in the best interest of the company in the long term?

Everybody — politicians, C.E.O.s — gets incentivized more for the short term rather than the long term. I’ve tried to find my balance between short term and long term all through my 11 years here. People misinterpret the short-termism to be quarterly earnings calls. I am willing to do monthly earnings calls. That’s not what bothers me. Being asked to report on my performance every month or every quarter is not short-termism. That’s being held to task by people who have entrusted you with their money. Transparency is a good thing. The problem with short-termism is if you, as a company, give quarterly guidance and then you are held to that guidance every quarter. That is short-termism.

So what I did when I came here is, I didn’t give annual or quarterly guidance. I give three-year guidance. I tell my investors, you should expect to see over the next three years us growing at an average growth rate of this, to this, this range, within average profitability of this, to this, this range. And I’m not going to make other commitments to you. I’m going to run my company. I want to grow revenue, not maximize my profitability.

With so much uncertainty early this year, what gave you the confidence to pledge that there would be no pandemic-related layoffs?

It was the right thing to do. One thing we didn’t need to do at a time like this was to add more fuel to the fire by making our employees insecure, by making them worry about their jobs, as compared to worrying about their health and their family. It was a very easy decision. So we told our people, focus on your health, on your family, and then focus on your clients and your work and stop worrying about your job.

And how has the pandemic affected spending?

The average deposit in every bank account went up because of the stimulus payments, and because people weren’t spending on holidays and theater and travel and that kind of stuff. But now with the fiscal stimulus drying up, I’m actually quite worried about a K-shaped recovery, where those who have it have enough money to spend. And then there are those who are suffering — small businesses, women, minorities, the people who got laid off from service-sector jobs.

Earlier there was a K because of inequality, but a rising tide was lifting all boats. If you think about the last 10 years, even those who got deeply impacted during the prior recession, their lives had begun to improve over this period. Wages had begun to go up. Unemployment had come down. Industries were booming. Restaurants were booming. The service industry was booming. Now it’s not happening that way. So I’m actually quite worried about that.

Given that, how do you square the inequality in this country with what many people say is excessive executive compensation?

I believe you can be paid well, if you do well. But it has to be aligned properly. My pay is very strongly aligned to total shareholder return. So if my investors benefit, I benefit. I’ve got no problem with that. I have a problem if you ignore that and you get paid, and that’s disconnected from those who have invested in you. That, to me, is a deep disconnect. I also have a problem if you don’t do some things with your employee base, that allows them to feel that their lives have been improved. When I originally came here, employee stock ownership in this company was tiny. Today, 70 percent of the employees get some form of stock-based compensation every year.





No.42 article:
Quotation of the Day: Despite Warnings, the Election Actually Ran Smoothly

“We are a raucous, dysfunctional family who will stand together in the best of times and in the worst of times. If you can’t believe that then you have no business running American elections.”

ADRIAN FONTES, the top elections administrator in Maricopa County, Ariz., which includes Phoenix.





No.43 article:
Should I Accept Free Covid Testing I Don’t Really Need?

I am fortunate enough to work for a large and successful company that’s riding out the pandemic without too many problems. Unusually for a corporation of its size, it appears to really care about its employees’ well-being, or at least it makes an effort.

To this end, the company is offering free weekly Covid-19 tests to employees who can’t work remotely because of their particular job function: e.g., R. &amp; D. or package handling. I’m authorized to work in the office, and therefore considered part of this group. But I can and do work exclusively from home. Still, my status means the company offers me tests, to be self-administered and mailed in from home. (I’m in my 50s and in good health, and though I have a few mild risk factors, I am not in a medically at-risk population.)

I’m pondering two questions. The first is, although the Covid tests are not mandatory, the company strongly encourages signing up for them. Access is explicitly not contingent on work location, only on job category. Still, because I’m self-isolating pretty diligently, would I be accessing tests under false pretenses? 

My second concern is this: Though my company has the resources, both financially and logistically, to secure enough tests for its employees, I fear I’m taking advantage of that capability, especially when there is a shortage of tests nationwide. I know that there’s little chance my personal test would be redirected to someone who needs it more if I don’t take it. But on the other hand, is it ethically appropriate for me to forgo testing in the absence of a compelling personal need?

I am well aware that this is a very privileged question springing from an absurdly privileged situation, but that doesn’t excuse me from trying to do the right thing. Name Withheld

In an ideal world — or simply a better governed America — you wouldn’t have to think about this question; tests wouldn’t be a scarce resource. Of course, there would still be a question about waste even if we were a country like Denmark, where, at the height of the pandemic, more than 50,000 people a day — out of a population of nearly six million — got tested. (Adjusting for population size, that’s the equivalent of nearly three million a day here; twice our actual maximum.) But as you’re aware, the waste you’re worrying about is, as the lawyers say, “de minimis.” The marginal cost to your company, and the marginal effect on our overall testing program, aren’t significant.

The interesting question is what the upside would be of your being tested regularly, given that you’re isolated and presumably adhering to the recommended precautions. To think about this, we must consider the accuracy of the tests. Assuming we’re talking about PCR tests, the false positive rate is extremely low. (When these happen, it’s typically because the specimens were mishandled in the lab.) By contrast, the false negative rate is significant, especially during the first week after infection. (These are typically due to the fact that the virus isn’t yet present in the sample in detectable quantities.) Are these test results useful to someone who, like you, has a very low baseline risk of infection?

Not very. Because you’re isolating and not working in the office, you don’t need to worry about the risk you pose to co-workers. On the other hand, a negative result could unduly increase your confidence that you’re in the clear. Suppose you have a 5 percent chance of contracting the virus. (A reasonable estimate would be way lower, but let’s simplify the arithmetic.) According to a study in the Annals of Internal Medicine, the probability of a false negative PCR result is 100 percent on the first day of infection and decreases to 20 percent by the eighth day. But estimates of false negatives vary widely; let’s simplify and say your false negative rate is going to be 30 percent, and that your false positive rate is zero. Bayes’s theorem shows that a negative test result should increase your confidence that you’re uninfected by about 3.5 percent — which is reassuring, but not in a life-changing way.

So why bother availing yourself of the test? Well, there are other factors to consider. One is that if your employer has the data for all the workers in your group, in the office and out, it can make better decisions. Having an overall picture of the rate of infection tells them something about patterns of employee behavior. If people pull out because they think they’re behaving well, that’ll skew the data. It could be best, given the concerns of data-driven management, if everyone complies.

My wife and I live in a beautiful community in the South Carolina Lowcountry that, unfortunately, uses the word “plantation” in its name. Knowing how offensive this word is, and the hurt it causes islanders of color (e.g., the Gullah Geechee people), we joined a group of residents formed to convince the governing board to replace the word “plantation” in the community’s name with something else. Ultimately, our efforts were unsuccessful. More than 52 percent of respondents voted to keep the name as is. 

Before this issue arose (and before we were fully aware of the offensiveness of “plantation”), we were considering moving to a new home in our community; now we are not so sure we should. Given what we now know, is it ethical to buy a home in a community that affirmatively chooses to keep an offensive name? Name Withheld

I’m with you on changing the name. Plantations were places where Black people were not only denied basic human rights but were also subject to sexual assault and physical torture — a repugnant legacy to want to hold onto. But you’ve done your part to try to put this right. And if you stick around, you can try to make the change again. Leaving is giving up on that project — and on the 48 percent who agree with you. You say the area is beautiful: If you’re happy there, moving away would be a loss and inconvenience to you, for no obvious gain. The times are changing. We can hope your side will prevail sometime soon.

Some years ago, I was raped by an acquaintance. Before that event, I was warned by friends to keep my distance from him but didn’t heed their advice; I later learned that this man violently sexually assaulted another woman before he assaulted me. I went to the police following my experience, but he was never charged with any crime and he moved away soon after. I eventually moved, too.

Recently, I moved to yet another city and learned that he moved to the city where I had been living last, and where I still have many friends and acquaintances, particularly in the L.G.B.T. community. I know that he identifies as L.G.B.T. 

To my knowledge, he has not assaulted anyone since I reported him to the police. He quit drinking and got married. He lost many friends and raised money for a domestic-violence organization. I developed PTSD as a result of the attack and have spent years in therapy to diminish (but not completely eliminate) my symptoms, and this led to the dissolution of my marriage at the time. I have since rebuilt a new life with a new partner and built a career that allows me to work in mental health. Is it my responsibility to warn my friends in his new city, or is it my ethical obligation to let him continue to lead his life? Name Withheld

I am so sorry to hear about what this person did to you. It’s natural, given that he never faced punishment for his crime, to want to see him pay some penalty. And you could do that by letting people in the community where he lives know about your experience. But you didn’t ask me whether you should seek to make him pay for his crime; you asked if you had a duty to tell people in the community where he now lives what he has done. You report evidence that he’s reformed — he has given up alcohol (which is especially relevant if his drinking played a role in the attack), married, committed to public service and, perhaps, paid some cost for his behavior in lost friends. So you don’t seem to think he poses a clear ongoing threat. You have no duty, then, to revisit this trauma for the sake of the safety of those in his community, particularly if doing so would risk psychological harm to you.





No.44 article:
Hawaii’s Reopening May Be Good for Tourism. Is it Good for Locals?

The travel industry and the islands’ authorities say using testing could create a model for reopening international travel. But some locals object to being part of the experiment.

Since Hawaii welcomed tourists back in mid-October, allowing them to skip its 14-day quarantine as long as they had a negative coronavirus test, more than 100,000 people have rushed to the islands from mainland states, exciting state officials, some hoteliers, airlines and local business owners, who for seven months have watched the state’s economy grind to a halt.

Instead of the quarantine, the islands began accepting a preflight coronavirus test for entry under a program it is calling Safe Travels. The state is only accepting what are known as nucleic acid amplification tests processed by specially certified laboratories, and test results from certain trusted testing and travel partners, including some airlines.

Those who test negative within 72 hours of departure are exempt from quarantine upon arrival. Those who didn’t take a test before flying have to quarantine for 14 days, and those who arrive with a pending test must quarantine until they receive negative results. People who test positive are required to immediately take a PCR test, which detects the virus’s genetic material, and quarantine in their hotel room or other vacation lodging.

“Hawaii is at the vanguard of what travel will look like for the next year or so as we reopen,” said Avi Mannis, senior vice president of marketing at Hawaiian Airlines, one of a handful of airlines that began offering pre-travel Covid-19 tests in October.

Hawaiian, through Worksite Labs, is offering state-approved tests to passengers at drive-through labs near Los Angeles International and San Francisco International airports for $90 for results within 36 hours, or $150 for day-of-travel express service. Passengers take PCR tests within 72 hours of traveling, upload their results to the Hawaii Safe Travel app before departing and show their results to state authorities in Hawaii upon landing. But the airline doesn’t check passengers’ test results before they board.

“Your test results are between you, your health care provider and the state of Hawaii,” Mr. Mannis said.

The surge of arrivals — 8,000 of them on the first day pretesting was available — presented an opportunity to test out new protocols for travelers that could help determine how to reopen travel internationally. If Hawaii’s reopening goes well, the belief is that preflight testing could become widespread. And on the islands, if hotels can figure out how to deal with growing occupancy, the same thing could be done worldwide.

But what travel industry actors view as an opportunity to reopen safely and pave a way forward, many locals and residents view as putting them in harm’s way with untested protocols and allowing people who might have the coronavirus onto the islands.

“It feels like at every point that tourism gets prioritized,” said Landon Tom, a bartender and waiter in Waikiki. “It feels, whether intentionally or not, like we are the guinea pigs for tourism. Like our leaders and the airlines are saying ‘Can we safely reopen tourism or not? Well, let’s see if Hawaii survives. If it does, let’s keep going. If it doesn’t, probably a lot of Pacific Islanders have gotten sick and suffered.’”

Mr. Tom said that on a recent hike near his home, he saw several groups of tourists heading to popular Koko Head without masks on, making him nervous that if any of them had the coronavirus they could pass it on to locals.

“Tourism is terrorism to me right now,” he said. “I’d ask tourists to stay home for now, if they can. You could test negative, but get the virus afterward or you could have it and not realize. Why not skip this vacation for now?”

Earlier this year as governments and health organizations advised against nonessential travel, Hawaii’s governor, David Ige, instituted a mandatory 14-day quarantine, a deterrent for tourists looking to escape for a quick vacation. In April, the state was paying people to leave in order to keep tourists out.

The quarantine, combined with other measures, like giving people citations for not wearing masks and fining those who broke the quarantine, helped the state hold the number of coronavirus cases down to 15,231. Florida, another popular vacation destination and a much larger state, has had more than 800,000 cases. In this sense, Hawaii’s location in the Pacific and its quarantine have been advantageous.

But they have also been a curse, effectively closing the state’s biggest industry. In 2019, Hawaii had more than 10 million visitors, an all-time high, according to data from the state’s Tourism Authority. That number was expected to continue rising in 2020. When Hawaii put the quarantine into effect, arrivals fell drastically; at one point they were down 99 percent.

The drop in tourism has been devastating to the state, where almost a quarter of the economy is related to the industry. There has been a spike in homelessness and people at risk of becoming homeless; the number of people who could potentially lose their health care benefits is up and reports of domestic violence are up significantly, said Josh Green, the state’s lieutenant governor. Had the islands kept the quarantine mandate longer, those numbers, as well as the number of people calling hotlines with plans of self harm, would have skyrocketed, he added.

“We are all at risk whether we live here in Hawaii or on the mainland and we can’t stay isolated forever, we won’t survive,” he said. “There are people who want to ride this out until a vaccine comes, but it’s hard to make that policy when we know that homelessness will surge, kids won’t get vaccines and so on. Saying ‘don’t come under any circumstances’ is not realistic.”

Lieutenant Governor Green said that although there have been some hiccups during the reopening process, including people taking tests that are not approved by the state or refusing to get tested at all, the vast majority of visitors have been getting tests and testing negative. The state is conducting voluntary follow-up testing four days after people arrive as part of its surveillance testing program. So far. data shows that few travelers have tested positive for Covid-19 after arrival in Hawaii. 

“We shouldn’t be afraid of the pandemic, we should attack it with good policy and be the safest place,” Lieutenant Governor Green said. “I’m looking forward to the vaccination, but the virus is here for a while.”

Hawaii is part of a growing effort to boost traveler confidence by making testing a regular part of travel, the way new security procedures became routine after 9/11. This month, United Airlines will begin offering free rapid molecular Abbott ID Now Covid-19 coronavirus tests to travelers on select flights from Newark Liberty International in New Jersey to London’s Heathrow Airport.

“A lot of the set up that we put in place to be able to execute the Newark-to-Heathrow test flight that will run from November to December has been largely based on our experience in setting up testing centers in San Francisco into the state of Hawaii,” said Aaron McMillan, United’s managing director of operations policy and support. “We’re really bullish on this whole process.”

Mr. McMillan added that he believes that “in some markets, especially for international travel, until a vaccine is more widely available, testing will become part of the norm.”

For Jonathan McManus, the owner of Hotel Wailea Relais &amp; Chateaux in Maui, testing presents a way to reopen safely after months of carrying an empty property. He says it will let him keep employees in jobs.

“What the data suggests so far is that here in Hawaii, testing has been the key to safely reopening,” he said. “We now understand the data and the importance of testing. Testing provides a high level of protection for visitors, staff and residents.”

The hotel used to have an in-person welcoming process that included staff members putting leis on guests as they arrived and checking them in with a cocktail in hand. Now, a key is waiting for guests when they arrive, and capacity is capped at 60 percent. Each of the hotel’s 72 suites has its own heating, ventilation and air conditioning system.

Gary Moore, managing director at Timbers Kauai at Hokuala, said that the reopening has been “anything but clear,” but what is clear is: “We have to find a way to live with the disease.” Mr. Moore said that despite various challenges, the lessons learned at his property about distancing people, mask enforcement, temperature checking and even separating guests and putting them in “bubbles,” could be applied at other resorts.

“The resort bubble would let guests leave their rooms and enjoy on-site amenities while completing the mandatory quarantine while wearing GPS-monitored bracelets,” he said, noting that should Hawaii reinstate the mandatory quarantine for all travelers, these bubbles would make it possible for the resort to remain operational for inter-island travel and for locals.

The staff at Timbers is made up of locals and their safety is essential, Mr. Moore said.

“Our employees go home, many have large families and they are with parents and grandparents and children, and keeping them safe is essential to everyone’s well-being,” he said.

In October, images of the Honolulu mayor, Kirk Caldwell, handing out masks to tourists along Waikiki’s Kuhio Beach made rounds in group texts, on Facebook groups and on Twitter and were criticized by Oahu residents for being hypocritical and unfair. Nearly 50,000 locals had been cited for being on the beach, but tourists were being encouraged to visit it. Mr. Caldwell did not respond to requests for comment.

“They are criminalizing locals and then pandering to tourists,” said Kawenaʻulaokala Kapahua, who recently graduated from the Chaminade University of Honolulu and lives in Kaneohe in Oahu. “Just yesterday someone who had taken a pre-travel test found out that their test was positive. But they had already brought coronavirus into the community. We are being put at risk by travelers.”

Mr. Kapahua organized a protest in the spring asking the government to force tourists to leave the island.

And on other islands, like Kauai, residents said that it’s too soon to welcome tourists back, and information about reopening isn’t being communicated clearly, causing more anxiety for them.

“I talk to people in our community everyday and they all tell the same story,” said Justin Kollar, Kauai County’s prosecuting attorney. “They feel like we’ve done such a great job here on Kauai keeping the pandemic at bay and the state is running over that with a reopening process that is not well thought out and not well organized and it’ll open the floodgates to this virus.”

Mr. Kollar noted that the sentiment that tourists are more important than locals is one felt by many of his constituents.

“There’s a sense that locals haven’t celebrated, haven’t seen family and have been asked to keep doing that so tourists can come play on our beaches,” he said.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.45 article:
How Do You Advertise a Town Ravaged by Hurricanes?

Kathryn Shea Duncan, 24, works to promote tourism in Lake Charles, La., which was hit hard by Laura and Delta this year.

As a 24-year-old public relations representative for her city, Kathryn Shea Duncan eats, sleeps and breathes Lake Charles, La.

The working-class town, home to about 80,000 people and just inland from the Gulf of Mexico, is the big city she grew up visiting, and where she spent Thanksgiving with family. She rented her first home in Lake Charles. She met her boyfriend, Ryan Beeson, at the Panorama Music House downtown. She can tell you the best place to get a po&#x27; boy, hold a baby alligator or crab off dry land.

But Ms. Duncan’s resolve to stay in the city has been shaken by the series of hurricanes that have devastated the place and much of the surrounding area this year. Thousands of residents remain displaced, and aid — in the form of charitable giving and volunteers — has been hard to come by with the whole country struggling with coronavirus outbreaks and distracted by politics. (The mayor, Nic Hunter, has worked to spread awareness of the state of his city, appearing on CNN, Fox News and NPR, where he told listeners, “I am begging, I am pleading for Americans not to forget about Lake Charles.”)

It has Ms. Duncan questioning how she will continue to do the job of promoting the place she loves.

“The reality is, what product do we have to pitch?” she said. “What event? What’s open? We know that all of our hotels are going to be filled till the end of the year with utility workers and first responders. And then, sooner or later, with families who have been displaced.”

It has also shifted her thinking about her own future. (Lake Charles is not located on the coast, but it is still affected by frequent storms, a changing coast line and sea level rise.)

“You start thinking, what does your house look like?” Ms. Duncan said. “What does your job look like? What is everything that I do for a living, promote for a living, going to look like?”

Before the storms, Ms. Duncan’s job was to pitch stories to out-of-state writers and reporters about Lake Charles and Southwest Louisiana, including about the Creole Nature Trail, a scenic byway that lets visitors walk through Louisiana tall grasses and alligator habitats, and Adventure Point, an attraction along the trail where kids can don real-life hunting gear and smell spices used in Louisiana cooking.

“We were still pitching stories during Covid-19,” she said, “but we couldn’t host anyone, because we really just can’t do that safely.” When Hurricane Laura hit, though, her bosses “mainly cared about our well-being and our health.”

On Aug. 25, the night Laura made landfall, Mr. Beeson and Ms. Duncan were at Ms. Duncan’s mother’s house in Crowley, La., a town about a quarter of the size of Lake Charles, and about an hour away by car.

Mr. Beeson woke Ms. Duncan in the middle of the night. “I know you don’t want to see this, but I think you should know what’s going on,” he said, handing Ms. Duncan his phone. It revealed a photograph of the Panorama Music House, completely destroyed.

“Literally, it had just fallen,” Ms. Duncan said. “Like a waterfall.”

The owners had been in the process of building a small museum on the top floor dedicated to the musical history of Lake Charles, which Ms. Duncan was excited to recommend to visitors. (The country musician Lucinda Williams, for example, was born and raised nearby and named one of her most famous songs after the town.)

“I just sat there, sobbing,” Ms. Duncan said. “Grieving for what might be lost.”

That hurricane, a category four storm, ended up displacing more than 6,000 Lake Charles residents. Wind damage left small buildings and big box stores, like Best Buy and Hobby Lobby, in pieces, and tens of thousands of people were without electricity for weeks.

Ms. Duncan’s home survived with minimal damage, but her office had to be gutted. Her neighbor had it much worse. “She had ceiling damage, so they’re gutting her side out,” she said. “She can’t live there. And she’s a nurse.”

Then, in October, Hurricane Delta made a turn for Lake Charles. Ms. Duncan boarded up her house once again, storing her television in her laundry room along with framed photographs of her deceased father.

Ms. Duncan’s family has lived in this region of Louisiana for generations, and have roots going back to the original group of Cajuns who were exiled from Acadia, in Canada, by the British in the 1700s.

Physically, the state has changed a lot since then. In 2014, the map was redrawn to account for a shrinking coastline, and storms are more frequent — and more deadly — than ever. But Ms. Duncan is committed to riding it out.

“We can make it better,” she said. “Through economic development and improving our infrastructure, and having a cleaner environment, and better transportation. You can’t do all of those big things if you don’t stay and work at it day by day.”

“I’m a very future-oriented person,” Ms. Duncan said, sitting in her den in Lake Charles, under a framed, hand-drawn map of the state of Louisiana. “I’m always planning the next five years.”

It stands to reason that Ms. Duncan might eventually want to move to a different city. But Lake Charles is her home, she said. And leaving never felt as alluring as staying put.

“If I were to move somewhere with a million people, it would be almost meaningless to try and make a difference,” she said. “But if I stay here, and am resilient, living in a city of 80,000, where mostly all of them think and act the same, and I’m a millennial who probably does not have the same thoughts and experiences as those around me, I can make a difference.”

“If I leave,” she added, “then who is going to stay? Who is going to be that person?”

October was a different story. With Hurricane Delta bearing down on Lake Charles, she and Mr. Beeson evacuated once again, this time to San Antonio to stay with friends. With traffic, the normally five-hour drive took them 12. “To be completely honest with you, I wanted to move,” Ms. Duncan said. “I was frustrated. I was angry that this kept happening.”

But after the storm, Ms. Duncan was overwhelmed with emotion seeing the work her community did together to rebuild. It’s exciting, she said, to be a part of that. There’s a Facebook group for her neighborhood, where people check in on one another, making sure they all have what they need.

“Even our mail lady is in the group,” Ms. Duncan said, “and two days after Laura, she posted that she was on her way home, and that she was going to drop off the mail when she got there.”

It made Ms. Duncan reconsider her frustration. “I was kind of like, OK, maybe I need to chill out, and stay here a little longer,” she said, adding she felt that there was a reason she was here.

Now, back at the satellite office, Ms. Duncan and her team are working on budgeting for the next fiscal year, trying to come up with a plan to sell Lake Charles again. It’s about rebuilding, but rebuilding better, and taking advantage of the new things that might come out of this dark period of the city’s history.

“There may be new restaurants, and new attractions that come from this,” she said. “There’s sort of this unfortunate beauty that might come from this. Maybe the inside of one of our attractions is gutted, and that sucks, but maybe they have an opportunity to reinvent themselves.”

Seeing how Lake Charles has come together in the wake of two hurricanes has only made the decision easier. “It’s more fulfilling now, to be sure,” she said. “It validates why I choose to stay here. Yes, everyone’s lives are in chaos right now. But we’re still checking in on each other, making sure we’re OK. We worry about our neighbors, even in the midst of our own struggles.”

Something about the fact that there are many obstacles ahead makes Ms. Duncan more dedicated to the place. “If I were to leave, I would be a different environment and all that,” she said. “But by staying, I’m constantly challenging myself. It’s that constant, daily challenge of thinking, what can I do better? How can I make this place better? How can I leave it better for the next generation?”





No.46 article:
Biden Victory Brings Sighs of Relief Overseas

Foreign leaders showered the president-elect with congratulations. For many, the importance of this election was as much about removing Mr. Trump as ushering in Mr. Biden.

LONDON — For a world that held its breath as Americans went to the polls last Tuesday, the triumph of Joseph R. Biden Jr. over President Trump provoked many emotions, but above all, a profound sigh of relief.

As news of Mr. Biden’s victory reverberated from Europe and the Middle East to Asia and Latin America on Saturday, foreign leaders showered him with congratulations. Diplomats and commentators expressed gratitude, satisfaction and even jubilation that a new president would bring a much-needed return to normalcy — something that vanished alarmingly the day Mr. Trump took office.

“Welcome back America!” the mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, said in a Twitter message to Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, hailing Canada’s historic friendship with the United States, said, “I’m really looking forward to working together.” President Emmanuel Macron of France said, “We have a lot to do to overcome today’s challenges. Let’s work together!” Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany declared, “Our trans-Atlantic friendship is irreplaceable, if we want to overcome the great challenges of our time.”

For many world leaders, the importance of this election was as much about removing Mr. Trump as ushering in Mr. Biden.

The former vice president is a familiar fixture on the global stage, a centrist Democrat who is likely to restore the traditional habits and methods of American power abroad. Mr. Trump, who held no office before the presidency, has been a great disrupter, leaving alliances in tatters and casting into doubt the liberal international order that the United States helped build after World War II.

“I feel optimistic for the first time in quite a long time,” said Simon Fraser, a former head of Britain’s Foreign Office. “I’m not expecting a radical change in American foreign policy, but I do expect a change in body language and tone, and a shift away from unilateralism to collaboration with allies.”

Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, did not wait for the race to be called, tweeting on Friday evening, “The world can be a dark place at times just now — but today we are seeing a wee break in the clouds.”

Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, whom Mr. Trump has treated as an ideological twin because of his populist tactics and championing of Brexit, issued a more restrained statement, but singled out Ms. Harris for her “historic achievement” as the first woman elected vice president.

“The U.S. is our most important ally,” he said, “and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities from climate change to trade and security.”

For allies in Europe, the relief was palpable. Mr. Trump backed Brexit because he saw it as a way to undermine the European Union. He levied tariffs on European exports, pulled out of the Paris climate accord and hectored France and Germany about not paying enough to support NATO.

Even European leaders who tried to establish a rapport with Mr. Trump, like Mr. Macron, eventually gave up. Diplomats said these leaders hoped now to reset the trans-Atlantic relationship, particularly since Mr. Biden is expected to emphasize repairing frayed ties with Europe.

“You will be able to have a coherent conversation with a normal guy,” said Gérard Araud, the former French ambassador to Washington, who sat in on often discursive exchanges between Mr. Trump and Mr. Macron.

Mr. Araud said the arrival of Mr. Biden — a “nice guy, a smiling guy,” as he put it — would have emotional resonance for many Europeans, particularly older ones, who struggled to reconcile Mr. Trump’s unyielding “America First” vision with the generous, if imperfect, country they knew in the postwar period.

“They need to love America,” he said. “There is a sentimental relationship with America, which the Americans always underestimate.”

Few Europeans, however, believe that America will ever return to the intense global engagement that characterized it at the peak of its power. The deep divisions in American society and the close election suggested to some that the United States under a Biden presidency would remain inward-looking and preoccupied by domestic issues.

Le Monde, one of France’s leading newspapers, said in an editorial this week that “Trumpism” was a “lasting heritage of American politics,” not an accident or brief “interlude.”

For countries that prospered under Mr. Trump, Mr. Biden’s victory drew more muted reactions.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, a staunch ally of Mr. Trump who had a chilly relationship with his predecessor, Barack Obama, waited 12 hours before offering his congratulations to Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris.

“Joe, we’ve had a long &amp; warm personal relationship for nearly 40 years, and I know you as a great friend of Israel,” Mr. Netanyahu said in a tweet, which he followed up with one thanking Mr. Trump for his friendship.

Mr. Biden and Mr. Netanyahu do go back a long way. But in 2010, Mr. Netanyahu alienated the then-vice president when his government announced the approval of 1,600 Jewish settlements in the West Bank while Mr. Biden was still in the country. Hillary Clinton, who was secretary of state at the time, berated Mr. Netanyahu for what the White House viewed as an affront.

Across the Arab world, people followed the election for a taste of what they lack at home: the opportunity to change the ruler through the ballot box.

“It is fascinating,” said Basil Salloukh, an associate professor of political science at the Lebanese American University in Beirut. But he said he did not expect major shifts in United States policy toward the region.

“Tomorrow we will wake up and realize that the U.S. is still the new imperial power and supports regimes and causes that are not on the side of freedom and democracy globally,” Mr. Salloukh said.

There was no immediate reaction from Arab leaders like Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, some of whom cultivated close ties with Mr. Trump.

Turkey’s strongman president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, speaks with Mr. Trump about once a month — a relationship that has helped the country avoid sanctions and heavy fines. News organizations close to the Erdogan government have openly supported Mr. Trump and grew bitter at signs of his losing.

Mr. Biden’s long political career has left him with a vast Rolodex of contacts among world leaders. When he visited Turkey in 2011, Mr. Erdogan, who was recuperating from a medical procedure, invited him to his private residence. The two men, clad in slippers, had a two-hour conversation about sensitive issues, including Syria and Turkey’s opposition to new sanctions against Iran.

“I don’t want to sound like I’m inflating my importance or relationship with him,” Mr. Biden told reporters, “but we have listened to each other. And he was genuinely listening to my perspective and wasn’t challenging it.”

Mr. Biden has a lengthy foreign policy record from his White House and Senate days, which foreign leaders are mining for clues about how he might change the direction of U.S. policy toward their countries.

In Afghanistan, officials have been rooting for a Biden victory and the rollback of Mr. Trump’s policies, namely the gradual withdrawal of Americans troops under a February peace agreement with the Taliban, signed in Qatar.

Iran, too, sought hope in a new beginning. Many Iranians rejoiced at the defeat of a president who devastated their economy with sanctions, escalated tensions to the brink of war and assassinated a top general.

“Trump and his followers are collapsing into history’s trash can while our Iran still stands,” said Ali Gholizadeh a political analyst from Mashhad Tehran.

Not everybody welcomed the change.

In Hungary, where Prime Minister Viktor Orban has presided over what he has dubbed an “illiberal state,” the far-right Volner Party said it would rally in front of the American Embassy in Budapest against “possible electoral fraud in the U.S. presidential election and in solidarity with President Donald Trump.”

Shortly after the American news media called the race for Mr. Biden, “Biden” became the top trending topic on Weibo, a Chinese Twitter-like platform.

Hu Xijin, the editor of China’s nationalistic tabloid Global Times, said Mr. Trump had “yet to show a gesture of preparing to accept defeat,” adding that “American society is now highly divided, which creates the soil for further political derailment.”

But Mr. Hu’s outlet, Global Times, tweeted soon after that “Biden’s win could offer some ‘breathing room’ for China-US relations.’”





No.47 article:
The Uneasy Afterlife of Our Dazzling Trash

Where do CDs go to die?

Every day, for the past 14 years, Bruce Bennett has received packages filled with CDs. Sometimes a few at a time and sometimes in packs of hundreds, shiny old discs arrive at his CD Recycling Center of America in Salem, N.H., a 300-foot blue trailer tucked behind a commercial strip, to ascend to the CD afterlife.

The CD recycling process requires Mr. Bennett, 55, to store a truckload, or approximately 44,000 pounds, of CDs in a warehouse before the discs can be granulated into raw polycarbonate plastic, resulting in a white and clear powdery material that glints and resembles large snowflake crystals stuck together.

The material, which takes one million years to decompose in a landfill, can eventually be used to mold durable items for cars, home building materials and eyeglasses.

But that’s assuming anybody buys the raw material.

The polycarbonate granules used to be sold mostly to China, where the United States sent the bulk of its recycling until 2018 before China restricted imports of mixed paper and most plastic. The price that China was willing to pay per pound of granulated polycarbonate began to dip in 2008, Mr. Bennett said, and by 2011 it had plummeted.

Mr. Bennett did find polycarbonate buyers in India, but now, because of lockdowns caused by the pandemic, he doesn’t break even. Still, as a self-professed lifelong environmentalist — he began to recycle CDs in 1988 because, as a CD manufacturer, he had to learn how to properly dispose of damaged batches — Mr. Bennett is hopeful that CD recycling will catch on.

“I realized that I know how to recycle this,” Mr. Bennett said in an interview. “But I don’t think the world knows.”

CDs may seem like a relic, but when they entered consumer homes in the 1980s, they were a revelation in information sharing.

“In the early ’80s, information storage was mainly in magnetic tape and magnetic devices,” said Kees Immink, who was one of eight engineers to create the CD in 1979. “The CD was groundbreaking.”

His team had started with the goal of making a disc capable of storing music longer than Beethoven’s “Symphony No. 9,” which is close to 70 minutes long. What resulted was something that could save “other digital media and essentially all software,” he recalled.

“Mechanical engineers who produced excellent gramophones became instantly obsolete,” Mr. Immink said.

CDs were less than half the size of 12-inch vinyls, and could rewind or skip forward at the press of a button, unlike tapes, which required winding. Consumers could also travel with their CDs, thanks to Sony’s invention of the portable CD player in 1984. The sound quality was better, and discs could hold a lot more information than cassettes could.

CDs became ubiquitous: In the 1990s, AOL sent them to potential internet subscribers. In the mid-’90s, makers of video games began to shift away from cartridges and toward discs. By 2000, more than 900 million music CDs were sold, a record number that was never surpassed again, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. (Eminem, Destiny’s Child and Britney Spears were all top sellers.)

And then, just a year later, Apple released the first iPod, which allowed users to carry 1,000 CD-quality songs in a six-ounce device in their pocket. Compact discs began their shift from being innovative and covetable to clunky. This month brings another small blow to CDs as Sony and Microsoft are releasing the latest editions of the Playstation and the Xbox. Both come in two versions, one with a disc drive and one without; in both cases, the version with a disc drive costs more.

Mr. Immink — who now researches ways to store information in DNA — said that he has no feelings about the fact that the CD is slowly phasing out of production and use. It’s a cycle he understands. Just as he made the engineers of the gramophone obsolete, it is now his turn.

“It was a long time ago,” Mr. Immink said. “All those people that worked so hard on the radio are now obsolete. My colleagues and I had so much fun and we laughed a lot while we created the CD. We knew we were making history.”

Many organizations, like GreenDisk, provide drop boxes for castoff CDs and other outdated tech. David Beschen founded GreenDisk in 1992, after a stint marketing Microsoft products, and he still runs it.

“I saw an opportunity to basically clean up some of the stuff I had been responsible for marketing,” Mr. Beschen said. “All of this stuff was just being incinerated or buried.”

He ships the CDs accumulated from the tech drop boxes to the National Industries for the Blind, where they are sorted and ground into polycarbonate flakes. That raw plastic is then shipped to manufacturers to make plastic materials to sell, including spools for producing 3-D printing filament. The filament is then sent back to the N.I.B., where it is packaged to be sold to the federal government, Mr. Beschen said. (He said the government has used the 3-D filament for many things, including repairing broken parts on Humvees and nuclear missiles.)

GreenDisk also works with companies including Warner Brothers, Disney and the Library of Congress to dispose of CDs, because GreenDisk will delete the information from them first.

“Once a CD is in a trash dump, it can be published to the public domain and people can legally take that, sell it and re-market it as well,” Mr. Beschen said. Industries were burning millions of units of CDs to avoid that, he added.

In a global sense, recycling CDs is not a big environmental priority right now, according to Judith Enck, a former E.P.A. regional administrator, who founded Beyond Plastics, an anti-plastic project based at Bennington College in Vermont.

“Plastic recycling has been an abysmal failure,” she said, adding that the rate for recycling plastics in the United States has been significantly low. “That is an issue that definitely needs attention.”

“You look at other materials, like cardboard and glass and aluminum, and that’s all included in curbside recycling programs because there are businesses that will buy all of that for a reliable market,” Ms. Enck said. “There just aren’t markets for this type of plastic.”

So, for now, old CDs languish in basement or attics, or just end up with other plastics — in the trash.

In a recent interview, Janice Brandt, a former senior consultant at AOL and the marketing guru behind the company’s 1990s campaign that produced millions of CDs for potential customers, reflected on how much has changed, technologically, in just a few decades.

The AOL campaign, which at one point in the late 1990s had a budget of $750 million, was a huge moneymaker for AOL that brought millions of new users to the internet. Ms. Brandt said she thought that probably every other CD in existence is an AOL CD. (Mr. Bennett still receives AOL CDs to be recycled daily at his plant.)

“I thought that the best way was for people to actually see it,” Ms. Brandt said, of what AOL had to offer. She orchestrated the placement of CDs in magazines, college campuses, offices, bookstores and banks. At one point AOL was flash freezing CDs and packaging them with Omaha Steaks.

She knows how crazy that sounds, and was thoughtful about the possible environmental impact of her marketing. But Ms. Brandt has no regrets. “It really is remarkable, and those things don’t sound so remarkable now because it is all at our fingertips,” she said, of the internet.

At one point, an AOL chat room or instant message was cutting-edge virtual gathering. The fact that virtual society is so much more advanced today makes it easy to forget how far we have come.

“We drive around, but we don’t have a sense of what it took for us to get to the first car,” Ms. Brandt said.





No.48 article:
Biden, Now President-Elect, Calls for End to ‘Grim Era of Demonization’

Joe Biden, in his first post-victory speech, joined his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, in addressing the country and reached out to President Trump’s supporters. “Let’s give each other a chance,” he said.

WILMINGTON, Del. — Joseph R. Biden Jr. addressed the nation for the first time as president-elect on Saturday night, delivering a message of unity and trying to soothe the extraordinary divisions that defined the last four years in American politics.

“Let this grim era of demonization in America begin to end here and now,” he said.

In remarks before a drive-in audience in Wilmington brimming with longtime friends from Delaware, his home state, he directly appealed to the tens of millions of Americans who backed President Trump’s re-election, seeking to make good on his central campaign promise of bringing the country together. 

“For all those of you who voted for President Trump, I understand the disappointment tonight,” Mr. Biden, speaking at the conclusion of his third run for the presidency, said. “I’ve lost a couple times myself. But now, let’s give each other a chance. It’s time to put away the harsh rhetoric, lower the temperature, see each other again, listen to each other again.”

He added, “This is the time to heal in America.”

Mr. Biden’s optimistic speech, flecked with references to faith and American history, came 48 years to the day after he was first elected a senator from Delaware. He spoke from a flag-bedecked stage outside the Chase Center on the Riverfront, an event center near the Christina River, where he invoked themes that shaped his presidential campaign. 

The message, as it was throughout the campaign, was rooted more in a sense of values than in an especially ideological viewpoint, an approach that helped him build a broad coalition throughout the campaign but will be tested in partisan Washington.

Yet Mr. Biden grew impassioned as he insisted that for all of the tensions in the country, Americans still wanted to see their leaders find common ground. He promised to bring steady leadership and experience to meet the staggering crises facing the nation, most prominently the coronavirus. 

“What is our mandate?” he said. “I believe it’s this: Americans have called upon us to marshal the forces of decency, the forces of fairness, to marshal the forces of science and the forces of hope in the great battles of our time.”

Senator Kamala Harris, the vice president-elect, spoke first, telling voters that they had chosen “hope and unity, decency, science and, yes, truth.” 

She invoked her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who came to the United States from India at the age of 19, and paid tribute to the women “who throughout our nation’s history have paved the way for this moment tonight.”

“While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last,” she said. “Because every little girl watching tonight sees that this is a country of possibilities.”

In his 15-minute speech, Mr. Biden noted the history-making nature of Ms. Harris’s election, and he sketched out a vision for taking on the pandemic that has gripped the nation and killed more than 237,000 people in the United States.

After a campaign in which he emphasized the importance of political compromise, he implored Republicans and Democrats to work together — though some in his party have viewed his outlook as outmoded and unrealistic in an age of deep political polarization. 

And after running for the White House stressing the need to restore what he called “the soul of America,” he urged the country to come together. 

“I pledge to be a president who seeks not to divide, but unify,” Mr. Biden said at the outset of his speech, wasting no time before calling for togetherness. “Who doesn’t see red states and blue states, only sees the United States.”

Onlookers, some of whom had been waiting for hours to see him, sat on the rooftops of cars, waved red and blue glow sticks, and leaned on their horns to demonstrate their support. The audience, Mr. Biden said, included a number of Delaware dignitaries — and, ever the former senator himself, he greeted several of them by name.

After he concluded, Mr. Biden, Ms. Harris and their families remained onstage — and some of them danced — as an elaborate fireworks and drone light show unfolded. “Biden,” “President Elect,” “46” and “Harris” flashed across the Wilmington sky.

Mr. Biden had already appeared outside the Chase Center once this past week, on election night, when in brief remarks he said he was “on track to win this election.” In the days that followed, he limited himself to short and measured public statements as he and his team waited for news organizations to call the race and many of his supporters grew anxious.

Before he spoke, Mr. Biden addressed his campaign staff in a private video call, during which he thanked them for their efforts and insisted on the importance of engaging Americans who had supported Mr. Trump.

“I would urge you to reach out, you know, that person who had that Trump sign in their lawn next door or down the street,” he told his team. “Reach out to them. Tell them: ‘This isn’t personal. This is about getting together and restoring the basic values we’ve had for generations and generations here in America.’”

Mr. Biden also acknowledged the vast challenges confronting the nation and the huge responsibilities facing his team.

“The rest of the country is looking to us, the rest of the world is looking to us,” he said. “So we’re going to make sure that both the country is moving toward being united and the world that’s in disarray, the message is: America’s back.”

On Saturday, Mr. Biden spoke with former President Barack Obama, who congratulated him, as well as with the top Democrats in Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York. At one point, Mr. Schumer held up his flip phone so Mr. Biden could hear people cheering for him in Brooklyn.

Meanwhile, Mr. Biden’s advisers and allies were giving serious thought to the transition period, for which they have been planning for months.

Representative Cedric L. Richmond of Louisiana, a national co-chair of Mr. Biden’s campaign and a possible future member of his administration, made clear that combating the virus would be a top priority of the president-elect’s in the coming days.

“He has a chance to take a breath, but I’m not sure that he will, because I know he’s so concerned about Covid,” Mr. Richmond said. “He’ll be up in the morning working on America’s Covid response.”

Advertisement





No.49 article:
A Gymnastics Coach Made the Hall of Fame. Misconduct Complaints Are Trailing Her.

The sport’s leaders say they want to end a bullying approach to coaching that has become a part of its culture, but athletes see reasons to doubt that commitment.

Her stomach turned. She had to read the news twice. Hailee Hoffman, a former Stanford gymnast, couldn’t believe what she was seeing.

Mary Wright, Hoffman’s coach when she trained at Olympus Gymnastics outside Salt Lake City, was named to the U.S.A. Gymnastics Hall of Fame, and the timing that day in August could not have been more awkward.

Days before, Hoffman had filed a formal complaint against Wright with the United States Center for SafeSport, an independent body that handles abuse and misconduct cases in Olympic sports. Hoffman accused Wright, who has coached Olympians and national team members from several countries, of years of emotional, physical and verbal abuse.

“I feel morally obligated to speak out because Mary’s abusive coaching was so seriously damaging that it’s taken me years to process the extent of it,” Hoffman, 24, said in an interview. “It’s crazy to celebrate someone like that, especially right now when the sport is trying to get away from its toxic culture.” 

Wright did not answer several email and phone messages. U.S.A. Gymnastics stood by the award, saying no complaint had been received at the time the decision was made to bestow it in 2017 or before the day of the announcement in August. The Center for SafeSport forwarded Hoffman’s complaint to the federation two days after the award was made public.

U.S.A. Gymnastics said in a statement that it “would reconsider the induction if and when a case is adjudicated, if necessary.”

Four other gymnasts and three parents of children who trained at Olympus Gymnastics also told The New York Times that they — or in the case of the parents, their children — were abused by Wright. One coach who worked alongside Wright for more than a decade said she was aghast when Wright was named to the Hall of Fame because she believed Wright had treated her gymnasts harshly.

All but one of those people who confirmed Hoffman’s accusations asked to remain anonymous because they are still connected to the sport and feared retribution.

Kelle Land, whose young daughter trained at Olympus Gymnastics for four years, said she was preparing to join Hoffman’s case against Wright. Land was so turned off by the coaching at Olympus, she said, that she switched to another gym.

“Mary would be downright mean, awful and hurtful to the girls, and it was almost like she wanted to see how badly she could emotionally degrade those kids or physically break them,” Land said. “You would think U.S.A. Gymnastics would do everything in its power to get these bad coaches out of the system and not, at the very least, applaud them.”

The accusations against Wright have surfaced as hundreds of gymnasts worldwide have spoken out since the summer about an oppressive culture in the sport that they feel has been driven by tyrannical coaches who scare young athletes into obedience.

The gymnasts said it went beyond tough coaching and crossed into emotional or physical abuse. Many began speaking out after watching the Netflix documentary “Athlete A,” which chronicles gymnastics’ punishing culture and the sexual abuse inflicted on more than 200 girls and women by Larry Nassar, a former United States national team doctor who is serving a lengthy prison term.

Morinari Watanabe, the president of the International Gymnastics Federation, said in an online address last month that the existing mentality of coaches trying to gain “absolute power” over their athletes is an antiquated, dangerous way of coaching.

“If we don’t break it, the problem will continue forever,” he said.

Hoffman, a graduate student in mechanical engineering, said Wright perpetuated the sport’s abusive culture.

She said Wright had publicly ridiculed her, calling her stupid, lazy and fat, and pressured her to train while injured, including on what turned out to be two broken ankles. Hoffman said Wright had a bad temper that made her so anxious she took antacids before practices to prevent vomiting. Hoffman, who retired from the sport after her 2019 season at Stanford, said training under Wright caused panic attacks, depression, a recurring battle with bulimia and a damaged self-esteem that has affected her personal relationships.

To keep Wright from harming more children, Hoffman said, she plans to push for Wright to receive a lifetime ban from the sport because “the pain she caused so many young girls was just so lasting.”

Wright, 70, started coaching gymnastics as a teenager in her native New Zealand, according to an online bio. In 1975, she moved to the United States and quickly rose in the sport.

For about a decade, starting in 1979, she worked with Don Peters, the 1984 Olympic coach and longtime national team coach, as his assistant at SCATS Gymnastics in Southern California, one of the most successful American gyms at the time, where she coached top gymnasts. (In 2011, U.S.A. Gymnastics barred Peters for life and removed him from its Hall of Fame based on accusations that he had sex with three of his teenage gymnasts in the 1980s.)

At Olympus Gymnastics, the Utah club Wright opened in 1993, she prided herself on helping dozens of gymnasts, including Hoffman — more than 100 in all, by her count — earn college scholarships in the sport.

“Mary was a tough coach, but she was a good coach,” said Taryn Apgood Taylor, who trained with Wright from age 9 until she retired at 17 because of injuries. “I had a wonderful relationship with her and really felt like she protected her gymnasts.”

Taylor, 39, was one of eight gymnasts who trained with Wright when Olympus first opened. Wright would yell at the gymnasts and encourage them to work through the pain of injuries, she said, but that method was more accepted then than it is now.

From Taylor’s perspective, Wright never acted out of anger and never forced gymnasts to train on injuries if a doctor had advised against it. After gymnasts finished training on an apparatus, Taylor recalled, Wright expected them to hug her and thank her, so there were no hard feelings.

“I never saw her intentionally be mean to someone,” Taylor said. “She travels the world coaching, and if people didn’t value her skills or her way of doing things, that wouldn’t be the case.”

In recent years, Wright had been working with New Zealand’s national team and is now one of many coaches there under investigation by an independent commission organized by Gymnastics New Zealand, the national program, for emotional abuse, physical abuse and bullying, according to one gymnast with direct knowledge of the complaints lodged against Wright. That gymnast did not want her name used because she is still competing and said Wright wields a lot of influence with international judges.

The independent review, led by David Howman, the former director general of the World Anti-Doping Agency, is looking at specific cases of physical and psychological abuse at both the club- and national-team levels, but is also examining the culture of the sport.

Sweeping investigations into abusive coaching are also underway in several other countries, including Australia, Belgium, Britain, the Netherlands and Switzerland. 

Some mental health experts say the recurring verbal abuse, including berating, ridiculing, threatening, demeaning and insulting, can be as harmful to young people as physical abuse or sexual abuse. It has also been linked to depression.

“I know so many gymnasts who won’t speak out because they are still scared of Mary,” Hoffman said. “It tells you something about the system and how the abuse of children can leave deep, deep scars.”

In May, in a landmark case alleging emotional abuse, Maggie Haney, former coach of the Olympian Laurie Hernandez, was suspended for eight years for what a U.S.A. Gymnastics hearing panel called “severe aggressive behavior” toward gymnasts.

But that case took nearly four years to be adjudicated by U.S.A. Gymnastics, and similar cases are currently still under review within what some gymnasts and parents call an opaque and disorganized disciplinary system. Hoffman wonders if her case will take just as long.

One case filed against Qi Han, an elite coach based in North Carolina, has been open since 2017 and remains before the Center for SafeSport. Han has repeatedly denied the accusations. 

Daniel Hill, a spokesman for the Center for SafeSport, said on Wednesday that the organization does not comment on cases, or even confirm them. In May, Ju’Riese Colón, the chief executive of the organization, acknowledged in a statement to The Times that the center was taking too long to adjudicate some matters.

Another emotional and physical abuse case, one against Sabrina Picou, a coach in Louisiana, remains unresolved two years after it was filed by families at her gym. Picou, a former gymnast at L.S.U., did not respond to requests for comment on her case.

In 2018, an investigator from U.S.A. Gymnastics’ SafeSport department initially interviewed several parents of gymnasts who had formally complained about Picou. Soon after, the investigator stopped returning phone calls and emails, and “fell off the face of the earth,” according to Maryelizabeth LeBoeuf, a clinical psychologist and mother of two gymnasts she claims were abused by the coach.

“It is precisely this gym environment in question that allows the type of abuse Larry Nassar committed to go unchecked for so many years,” LeBoeuf wrote in an email in 2018 to Mark Busby, the U.S.A. Gymnastics lawyer who deals with SafeSport issues. “How can this organization espouse ‘cultural change’ if they are unable to follow up on a physical/emotional abuse complaint that affected dozens of very young children?”

The case had been lost three times inside the system, LeBoeuf said, adding that she was shocked late last month when U.S.A. Gymnastics emailed her about it. The federation said it had sent Picou a resolution letter and was waiting to hear if the coach would accept the terms. 

Hoffman can relate. She sent her complaint to the Center for SafeSport on Aug. 5. But amid a bureaucratic back-and-forth with the gymnastics federation, U.S.A. Gymnastics told her that SafeSport was still deciding whether to accept the case.

Kim Kranz, the U.S.A. Gymnastics official who is in charge of the SafeSport department, told Hoffman the federation was asking SafeSport to pursue it so there would be no question about the outcome.

“We don’t want there to be any hint that we treated the case differently due to Mary having been recently inducted into our Hall of Fame,” Kranz wrote to Hoffman.

On Thursday, Hoffman received an email from the Center for SafeSport saying an employee had been assigned to her complaint.

In an interview last month, Kranz and the president of U.S.A. Gymnastics, Li Li Leung, said the federation was taking steps to improve the handling of complaints it received to speed up the process. Over the past few months, the federation was finally able to close more cases than had come in, they said.

A main focus of the federation, they said, is educating coaches on what good coaching looks like and acknowledging that accepted methods of coaching have changed.

“When I was in school, the principal was allowed to spank kids when they were misbehaving, but they don’t do that anymore,” Kranz said. “I’ve spoken to a coach who said: ‘I used to coach like that. I was mean and I realize how damaging my behavior was toward these athletes, and I don’t do that anymore. ”

To fully change the sport’s culture, the old-school, domineering coaches like Wright must go, Hoffman said.

“I acknowledge that she’s just another drop in the bucket when it comes to abusive coaches,” she said. “That’s just the current culture of the sport, and if U.S.A. Gymnastics really wants to change it, I’ll believe it when I see it.”





No.50 article:
As Hong Kong Law Goes After ‘Black Sheep,’ Fear Clouds Universities

Campuses have long been hubs of protest in the city. Now, the authorities have promised to root out teachers who bring politics to the classroom.

HONG KONG — When Harry Wu, a professor of medical humanities at the University of Hong Kong, gave a lesson last fall about doctors’ responsibilities in society, he focused on a real-world example: the volunteer medics treating protesters and police in the antigovernment demonstrations convulsing the city.

But this semester, after China imposed a new national security law on Hong Kong, Professor Wu hastily reworked his lesson plan. He included photographs of the protests in his lecture slides, but did not explicitly address them. Before uploading the slides to a university portal after class, he deleted the photographs altogether.

“It’s right in front of your eyes, but you don’t have any opportunity to talk about this in class,” he said.

As China tries to quell the political upheaval in Hong Kong, the city’s universities — ranked among the best in Asia, if not the world — have become potent symbols of the shrinking space for dissent or even discussion. 

Politically active professors have been fired or denied contracts, in what they call retribution for their criticism of the government. Students are requesting more secure platforms for submitting assignments. Scholars are reconsidering whether Hong Kong is a viable home for their careers.

Even seemingly politically neutral fields, like medicine, have become potential minefields. Professor Wu plans to move to Taiwan next year.

The new law, which gives Beijing the broad power to crack down on political dissent, has even altered universities’ physical landscapes.

The University of Hong Kong recently dismantled a wall of protest posters that students erected last summer. At the Chinese University of Hong Kong, a thicket of barbed wire now envelops a bridge where clashes had erupted between students and police.

Government officials have been open about their intent to subdue the once-freewheeling campuses, even as they insist that academic freedom remains intact. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, said last month that the city’s education secretary would meet with university presidents to discuss how they would roll out the law at their institutions.

“If they no longer have the ability to meet the requirements, then law enforcement of course will have to go in and resolve it,” she said.

The scrutiny is part of a wider campaign to control education. The Education Bureau has offered to review textbooks, and last month it stripped a primary schoolteacher of his teaching credentials for discussing Hong Kong independence. Beijing’s top official in Hong Kong has called on the government to bolster “patriotic education.”

The impact on universities could be particularly important to the government given their historical role as incubators of social movements.

Student unions led the monthslong pro-democracy protests in 2014 known as Occupy Central. The idea of occupying Central, the city’s business district, was proposed by a University of Hong Kong law professor, Benny Tai, who was fired for his involvement in that movement this July.

Students were also among the most devoted protesters during last year’s demonstrations, which were sparked by a now abandoned bill that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China. Two of the most violent confrontations between protesters and police unfolded on college campuses, including a two-week siege at Hong Kong Polytechnic University.

Academics are increasingly worried about Beijing’s influence.

Even before this year, professors who supported democracy were denied promotion. In late 2019, the government retracted $200 million in funding for three universities, which one of the schools’ leaders said was retribution for student involvement in the protests.

The security law, enacted this summer, specifically orders the government to increase supervision over universities. Mrs. Lam has promised to root out “black sheep” who “bring politics into the classroom.”

“The message is loud and clear that the government is watching what the universities are doing,” said Johannes Chan, the former dean of the University of Hong Kong law school.

The result is a pervasive air of suspicion. As some faculty and students feel increasingly observed, they themselves have turned a more distrustful eye on their institutions.

More than 4,000 people signed a petition last month opposing the University of Hong Kong’s selection of two professors from Tsinghua University in Beijing for top administrative posts, citing fears the appointments would erode academic independence. They pointed to a Tsinghua webpage that listed one of the nominees as a Communist Party member, which was scrubbed after media inquiries.

A University of Hong Kong official called the allegations unsubstantiated.

Some students were equally skeptical of the university’s decision to dismantle their protest wall. The university said it was done to ensure “traffic flow.” But Tracy Cheng, vice president of the university’s student union, said she thought the reason was fear of the law. Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing newspapers had written several articles describing the display as a violation of the law.

“We kind of understand that the university is afraid,” said Ms. Cheng, a third-year student. “But we still feel like this harms the freedom of speech.”

The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been explicit in its acceptance of the law. On Wednesday, the school released a statement denouncing promotional posters for a student-organized exhibit about the protests, accusing them of having “a biased description” of the events. The university “solemnly reminds students not to challenge the law,” it said.

The coronavirus pandemic has heightened the unease by forcing most classes to be held online. Some students and professors worry the format leaves them vulnerable to surveillance.

When Chow Po Chung, a professor of political philosophy at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, gave a recent online talk on the philosopher John Rawls’s book, “A Theory of Justice,” none of the several hundred attendees turned their cameras on. Many used false names.

A student asked if she could submit a paper to him directly, rather than uploading it to a portal used to detect plagiarism. She said she didn’t know if the portal was secure.

While he believed it was, he has concerns of his own. In previous years he has taught a class that explored the feasibility of secession, drawing on Quebec or Scotland. Now he wonders whether those conversations might be forbidden.

“Before, you thought of this as an academic discussion,” he said. “It didn’t have that kind of meaning.”

Outright censorship or punishment, tied to the law, remains rare. But the prospect is creating a climate of fear.

Many academics said the firing of Mr. Tai by the University of Hong Kong sent a warning. The school dismissed him over his conviction related to his leadership of the 2014 protests, even though the faculty senate recommended he be allowed to stay. 

“When there’s a Benny Tai, you know they can do that again and again, until they have the situation they’d like to see,” said Stephen Chan, a professor of cultural studies at Lingnan University, adding that he was re-examining his syllabus for potentially sensitive material.

Ip Iam-Chong, who teaches in the same department, said administrators would proactively discourage staff from speaking out.

“Most people just want to keep the status quo,” said Professor Ip, whose own tenure application was rejected this summer. The university never raised politics as a reason, but he believed that his criticisms influenced the decision; he founded InMedia HK, a forum for pro-democracy writing. 

A spokeswoman for Lingnan said that all personnel decisions were based on academic merits.

The sensitivities can cut both ways in this highly polarized atmosphere. Some academics described fears of offending students with different political views.

Petula Ho, a professor of social work at the University of Hong Kong, said she found it difficult to offer critiques — even supportive ones — of the protest movement.  She said students had castigated her for discouraging clashes with police.

Some professors have looked outside the classroom to teach more freely. Since being fired, Mr. Tai has begun hosting private talks on how to defend the rule of law.

“If you do not allow people to talk about these sensitive concepts in universities, in schools, then students will not just learn from schools and formal curriculums,” he said. “What we can do is to use social media, civil society, to continue the work.”





No.51 article:
Along the Seine, Booksellers Try to Hold Off an Unhappy Ending

The coronavirus lockdowns have taken a steep toll on Paris’s “bouquinistes,” whose bookstalls stretch for miles along the Seine. “We are barely making enough to eat.”

PARIS — On a recent breezy day, Jérôme Callais wrapped a secondhand biography of Robespierre tightly in cellophane, covering the burgundy leather hardcover with an expert flick of the wrist and positioning it near a weighty tome on Talleyrand inside his dark green bookstand on a quai above the Seine.

The sky was a brilliant blue, and the sun cast a rose-hued glow on the gargoyle faces ornamenting the Pont Neuf, not far from where Mr. Callais has sold dusty classics to countless visitors for more than 30 years.

In normal times, Parisiens and tourists from around the world would be browsing his wares, and those of the roughly 230 other open-air booksellers known as “les bouquinistes,” whose boxy metal bookstalls stretch for nearly four miles along the Left and Right banks of the river.

But as lockdown restrictions to curb the coronavirus pandemic keep browsers at bay, the booksellers’ livelihood is rapidly being put in jeopardy. Many are bracing for what they fear may be the final chapter for a centuries-old métier that is as iconic to Paris as the Louvre and Notre Dame.

“We’re trying to keep this ship from sinking,” said Mr. Callais, 60, who is also the president of the Association of Bouquinistes, as he cast a worried eye over rows of shuttered stalls lining the Quai de Conti, above the tip of the Ile de la Cité. “But Covid has made most of our customers disappear.”

Even before France imposed a new nationwide lockdown last month to combat a resurgence of the virus, the tourists who are a staple of the bouquinistes’ income had largely stopped coming. And the beloved Parisien pastime of flânerie — strolling aimlessly to enjoy life — has been all but snuffed out, stifled by curfews and quarantines that have deprived the booksellers of die-hard clients.

Sales have plunged an average of 80 percent this year, Mr. Callais said, throwing many vendors into precarious straits, especially those who milked Eiffel Tower key chains, Mona Lisa coffee mugs and other kitschy souvenirs over books as cash cows when tourists jammed the quais.

Days go by without any vendors making a sale, and when they do, they’re lucky to pull in more than 30 euros, he said. Over four-fifths of the stands that run on both sides of the river, from Notre Dame to the Pont Royal, are more or less permanently shuttered.

“We are barely making enough to eat,” said David Nosek, a former sound engineer who has sold classic literature, modern paintings and antique lithographs near the Louvre for three decades.

Mr. Nosek is among a few holdouts who tried to stay open despite declining foot traffic. But one Saturday in October before the new lockdown, he closed at the unusually early hour of 6:30 p.m. after selling a single book for 10 euros. In the previous four days, he had sold nothing at all.

Before the virus, he said, he could count on pulling in up to 2,500 euros a month. Now Mr. Nosek barely earns 400 euros a month.

All that is keeping him and many of his confreres afloat is a fresh round of government support for ailing small businesses of up to 1,500 euros a month that started in October, after three months of aid in the spring.

But the bouquinistes want to work. They are eager to maintain a tradition that dates to the 16th century, when peddlers hawked “boucquain,” or little secondhand books, along the Pont Neuf bridge from wooden carts and large pockets sewn to their coats.

The profession has faced down hardship through the ages, including intermittent bans under a variety of French kings. In the 1800s, Napoleon finally authorized permanent bookstands on the parapets of the Seine, popularizing the bouquinistes and making them magnets for students, intellectuals and writers like Honoré de Balzac. A vast outdoor library of around 300,000 books is now contained in stalls stretching over 12 quais.

Many of today’s bouquinistes are retirees living on pensions who are eccentric collectors of arcane literature and magazines, mostly purchased from estates and peoples’ homes. They hail from eclectic backgrounds as former philosophy professors, punk rock singers and pharmacists.

A growing cadre of people in their 30s and 40s have joined their ranks, attracted by the freedom of working outside an office in rain or shine and by the creativity of building a literary universe within a tiny space.

Even before the pandemic, the bouquinistes were grappling with the cultural changes that have affected the book business everywhere — like the fact that amid the distractions of technology, people don’t read physical books as much as they used to, and if they do, often turn to Amazon to buy them.

Mr. Callais hopes to do his part to keep the printed word alive. A loquacious man capable of bantering for hours with total strangers, he likes to think of himself as an analog relic of a simpler era, before people hurried by with their eyes glued to an iPhone. There’s a functioning beige landline telephone perched atop his bookstall. Beneath it, he had taped a handwritten sign: “Reading Does Serious Damage to Stupidity.”

Volumes on Ivan the Terrible and Voltaire lined his stalls. Because people can’t live on history alone, he said, he mixed up his selections with musical and nature themes, including books on Glenn Gould, feng shui and the Pyrenees.

“I work the old way,” he declared, his voice muffled through two face masks. “My clients are people I meet on the quais. My bookstand is an oasis of resistance to machines that are replacing everything,” he added. “It’s a philosophy of life, and how we want to live it.”

Mr. Callais does have a cellphone, but he refuses to sell on the internet. Some of his colleagues had “gone modern,” he said, and turned to online sales to help combat slumping income.

Elena Carrera, 30, who opened her stand last year, is part of the Instagram generation now plying the quais.

Ms. Carrera, whose stand features whimsical pins, Asterix comics, vintage Playboys and biographies of Brigitte Bardot, makes about half her sales by posting shots of her wares on her Instagram account. Many of the dozen or so younger vendors who got into the business recently are also making the bulk of their sales online.

“We’re part of the younger generation that got into this because of our love of books, and it’s up to us to keep the profession alive,” Ms. Carrera said.

“But to do that, the bouquinistes need to change with the times,” she added. “We can’t be dinosaurs.”

Mr. Nosek, the former sound engineer, has his own website, and recently created bouquinistesdeparis.com, where his colleagues can upload pictures of their books for worldwide sale. But most older vendors — more than two-thirds are over 60 — don’t have the internet savvy to bump up online visibility, let alone move to the top of search pages dominated by ads for books on Amazon.

Of 300 books uploaded to the bouquinistes’ website so far, only five have been sold, said Mr. Nosek, 67.

“We need to do more,” he acknowledged. Still, he held out hope that the craft would recover, as it had time and again throughout the centuries.

The bouquinistes website, he noted, was emblazoned with the Latin words “fluctuat nec mergitur,” the ancient slogan of Paris, which translates to: “She is tossed by the waves, but does not sink.”

“I never imagined it would come to this,” he said, casting his eyes over the empty sidewalk.

“Still, the bouquinistes have been here since the Middle Ages,” he said. “I’d like to think that the coronavirus won’t finish us off.”




No.1 article:
Greece registers highest daily death toll – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a brand new version of the global coronavirus liveblog – head to the link below for the latest: 

Brazil registered 128 new coronavirus deaths on Sunday and 10,554 further infections, according to official data.

Since the start of the pandemic, 162,397 people have died in Brazil and more than 5.66 million have been infected with the virus, the data shows.

The latest figures come amid polls showing Jair Bolsonaro’s support falling in some of the country’s biggest cities.

Footballer and campaigner Marcus Rashford has forced the UK government into yet another U-turn after weeks of refusing to extend free school meals over school holidays amid the pandemic. 

Boris Johnson pledged a package including a £170m Covid winter grant scheme to support vulnerable families in England and an extension of the holiday activities and food programme to the Easter, summer and Christmas breaks next year.

Haroon Siddique reports on the latest policy switch here.

Support for Brazilian far-right president Jair Bolsonaro has dropped in some of the country’s biggest cities, surveys showed on Sunday, suggesting a previous bump may be short-lived as the country still grapples with a brutal coronavirus outbreak.

Previous polls have shown a rise in the former army captain’s support, despite what is widely seen as his poor handling of an epidemic that has now killed more than 160,000 Brazilians.

Now, a new poll, undertaken at the start of November and published in the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper, his support in Sao Paulo fell to 25% from 29%, while in Belo Horizonte it fell to 35% from 40%, compared with a previous poll taken 21-22 September. The margin of error was 3 percentage points, it said.

In Recife and Rio de Janeiro, polls showed his support remaining stable.

Meanwhile, a separated compilation of data by pollster Ibope, collated by the G1 website, showed on Sunday that Bolsonaro’s support has fallen in seven state capitals. The largest drops in support occurred in the cities of Salvador and Rio Branco, in which Bolsonaro’s popularity fell by 7 percentage points.

EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier has arrived in London as post-Brexit negotiations continue with the UK government, wearing a face mask embossed with the EU flag.

“Very happy to be back in London and work continues,” he told Reuters when he arrived by train.

The coronavirus pandemic had a devastating effect on Italy in the spring – now, as the country fights back the virus’s second wave, thousands of small villages are “fighting to stay alive”, Lorenzo Tondo writes.

Set among the forests at the foot of Mount Kalfa, Roccafiorita is the smallest village in southern Italy. The average age of its 187 inhabitants is over 60. If Covid were to spread among the population, the village could disappear.

“I’m worried,” 93-year-old Salvatore Occhino said. “If Covid strikes hard, there will be no one left in Roccafiorita. My heart cries out when I think of all the sacrifices we’ve made to keep this village alive. Now we can only place ourselves in the Lord’s hands.”

Lorenzo Tondo reports from Roccafiorita:

Melbourne’s “ring of steel”, which kept the city separate from the rest of Victoria, is set to lift at 11.59pm on Sunday.

Regional areas had been off-limits to Melburnians for months as the city lagged behind in its second wave fight with Covid-19, but the border will now be opened after the city recorded nine consecutive days without a new case.

“We know that so many people have missed those that they love the most, those who they need to see, been desperately keen to see, for such a long period of time,” Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters.

Measures will be relaxed, including:

A former sports minister has urged the UK government to soften its ban on outdoor sports, saying the current rules do not make sense.

Under national lockdown restrictions for England, outdoor sports including children’s sports outside of school settings have been shut down until 2 December.

On Sunday Tracey Crouch, a former Conservative frontbencher, called for compromises on the policy.

The MP told BBC Radio 4’s the Westminster Hour: “I appreciate that some might think it’s just a month, but actually a month is a long time when for many people, sport is as much about therapy as it is about their own physical health.

“And for youngsters, a month is an exceptionally long time. There certainly could have been compromises made. There’s no reason why you can’t just suspend competition but allow for training to continue.

“Then there are socially distanced sports in themselves. To me that doesn’t make any sense.”

Here’s a quick round-up of recent events. 

New York governor Andrew Cuomo has said he thinks Joe Biden’s election will be a turning point in America’s battle against Covid-19.

“I think you’ll see a different tone now. I think you’ll even see some governors start to take a different tone now that Mr Trump is out of office,” Cuomo said on ABC’s This Week on Sunday. 

“I think the political pressure of denying Covid is gone. I think you’ll see scientists speak with unmuzzled voice now. And I think the numbers are going to go up and Americans are going to get how serious this is.”

The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the UK is bringing a new tide of homelessness to a small square outside Charing Cross police station in London.

“There’s a lot of new faces,” said Jas Bhogal, a volunteer, while he handed out free gloves, hats and masks to a long queue of rough sleepers as temperatures dropped last week.

“Employees that worked in the hospitality businesses, those that didn’t get furloughed, ended up on the street and came to use this service,” he said. The demand is so high that three other charity food drops are operating at the same time as Bhogal’s Sikh Welfare and Awareness Team.You can read Robert Booth’s report about the pandemic’s impact on homelessness here.

 Four people were arrested and a number of officers were injured at Manchester’s anti-lockdown protest, Greater Manchester Police have said in a statement where they strongly condemned the gathering of more than 600 demonstrators. 

Assistant chief constable Mabs Hussain said: “Today, Greater Manchester police responded to a large gathering in Piccadilly Gardens, Manchester city centre. At the peak of the gathering, in excess of 600 people were in attendance.

“I would like to use this opportunity to publicly condemn this gathering. Both the organisers and attendees were irresponsible – increasing demand on police who are also responding to calls regarding serious incidents and people who are in immediate danger across Greater Manchester. 

“Before and during this gathering, officers followed guidance to engage with the organiser and attendees, explain the restrictions and encourage compliance. Unfortunately, the encouragement was ignored, which resulted in officers progressing to enforcement.”

Officers arrested four people on suspicion of public order offences and issued 24 £200 fixed penalty notices at the protest, he said, adding that police are looking to issue an FPN to the organiser. 

Police have learned that one group travelled to the protest from Cumbria via coach, Hussain said, explaining that the driver and coach company have since been reported to the regulator. 

He added: “Whilst responding to this gathering, a number of officers were injured. This is unacceptable behaviour towards officers who were simply doing their job and protecting people. Investigators will now work to identify those responsible and ensure they face justice.

“I would also like to remind members of the public that these restrictions are to control the spread of Covid-19 and protect everyone – including you and your loved ones as well as the NHS. I encourage you to do your bit to fight the virus by complying with the restrictions and staying at home.”

France reported a further 38,619 coronavirus cases on Sunday, bringing the country’s total to 1,787,324.

It follows a record daily increase on Saturday, when a staggering 86,852 cases were logged. 

The health ministry also announced 271 more coronavirus patients had died in the country’s hospitals, down from 306 on Saturday. 

Greece has reported a record daily rise of 35 coronavirus deaths, and 1,914 new cases of the virus. The authorities announced 34 deaths on Saturday.

It brings the country’s coronavirus death toll to 734 and the total number of confirmed cases to 56,698.The AP bureau chief for south-east Europe has this breakdown of the cases:

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported a further 93,811 coronavirus cases on Sunday, bringing the total to 9,808,411.

It said the number of deaths had risen by 1,072 to 236,547.

The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states.

It follows a string of record figures, with the country tallying more than 100,000 new cases for four consecutive days.





No.2 article:
Small earthquake in New England, not much damage

This earthquake, which took place around 9.10am and could be felt in portions of Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, was initially reported as having a magnitude of 4.0.

The US Geological Survey changed its assessment shortly thereafter, reporting a magnitude of 3.6, the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (Mema) said.

“There is NO tsunami danger from this earthquake,” said the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) tsunami program.

The quake’s epicenter was near Bliss Corner, an area of Dartmouth, Massachussetts, and had a depth of 10km.

Because the tremor was considered shallow, there was a heightened chance of minor damage and the quake would be expected to be felt across a greater area, NBC Boston reported.

Paul Caruso, a USGS geophysicist, told the New York Times: “We wouldn’t expect there to be significant damage from this earthquake.

“Earthquakes in this area are commonly felt very far away because the rocks in this area are very contiguous, very old, so they transmit the energy very well from earthquakes.”

Caruso told the newspaper southern New England had seen 26 quakes since 1963, but Sunday’s was among the largest.

“Living near the air force it really felt like the F-15s were flying under my house,” one Twitter user commented. “My kitties were definitely not happy.”

Torry Gaucher, a meteorologist with the US National Weather Service’s Boston office, posted a photo of a crack in his wall and said: “Well that is a new stress crack … bummed that my house felt it but I didn’t since I was in the hot tub.”

The New Bedford Fire department advised that anyone who felt the quake needed to check their furnace, gas lines and smokestacks.





No.3 article:
&#x27;Stand By Her&#x27;: China university students campaign to end period shaming

Free sanitary pad dispensers installed on campuses in effort to counter ‘stigma of menstruation’ in the country 

Chinese students have launched a program setting up free sanitary pad dispensers in toilets at universities across the country in a bid to end period shaming of young women.

“Sanitary pad support boxes” have been set up in almost 250 campuses following a campaign on social media by an advocacy group called Stand By Her. Those who take from the period support boxes are encouraged to help replenish its stock later.

Wang Ping, a third-year student at Minzu University in the southern province of Yunnan, said that with the help of about a dozen volunteers, the group had set up 10 boxes around the school.

“We are doing this in hopes of putting an end to period shaming and rejecting the stigma of menstruation,” she said. “We are not avoiding talking about but facing it head-on.”

The rare grassroots movement comes as the issue of periods has gained traction in China, where menstrual health is often seen as a source of embarrassment or taken lightly by health officials.

During the early months of the Covid-19 outbreak, female health workers complained that they had been told sanitary products were not considered critical items and would not be provided to them. A local NGO rallied to have donations of sanitary pads and period underwear sent to female frontline health workers.

In August this year, a screenshot of cheap unbranded pads on sale for 21.99 yuan (US$3) for a pack of 100 spread across social media, starting a debate over “period poverty” and the harsh living conditions of Chinese women and girls in rural areas. Some called for the government to provide support for those unable to afford such products.

Female students told the Guardian they often felt embarrassed when buying sanitary products. A third-year university student surnamed Liu at Guangxi University said that whenever she shopped for sanitary pads in campus stores, shop owners placed the products in a black plastic bag, separating it from the other products, before handing it back to her.

Tu Yajie, who helped set up boxes at Chengdu Medical College in the south-western province of Sichuan, said she felt this was one way to contribute to advocacy efforts in China, where a MeToo movement has spread across industries while also being subjected to censorship and legal hurdles.

“This is one thing that I can do to help, as a woman helping other women,” Tu said.

In a discussion forum, one internet user said of the campaign: “The university should be the place where women’s consciousness is awakened. This has really shown me the power of women.”





No.4 article:
Lord Sacks obituary

Former chief rabbi who was admired far beyond the Jewish world for his intellect and warmth

The former chief rabbi, Jonathan Sacks, Lord Sacks, who has died of cancer aged 72, was a much admired figure in both the Jewish and non-Jewish world. Even though his writ did not run across all of the Orthodox community – and not at all in Progressive Judaism – Sacks won high praise and was generally acknowledged as one of the most brilliant intellects of his generation. He was particularly lauded for his ability to explain Jewish philosophy to the wider community, which he did with great frequency on BBC Radio 4’s Thought for the Day.

But at the same time, Sacks’ tenure as chief rabbi, between 1991 and 2013, was controversial, both internally and outside Anglo-Jewry. Some of the furores regarding his decisions left a bitter taste at the time, but have receded into the background, as he embraced a hard-working retirement and a deliberate distancing so as not to overshadow his successor, Ephraim Mirvis.

Sacks came from an entirely different background from Mirvis and from his own predecessor, Lord (Immanuel) Jakobovits: his family, though observant, was not from a long line of rabbis and he had an utterly non-traditional path to the rabbinate, attending the local grammar school, Christ’s college, Finchley, in north London, before graduating from Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, with a first-class degree in philosophy.

His rabbinical contemporaries would have received a very different, and much more insular, kind of education. But throughout his career – particularly when he became chief rabbi at the relatively young age of 42 – there was a feeling that Sacks was in thrall to the strictly Orthodox sages on the right of the religious spectrum. They were the sons and grandsons of rabbis; he was the son of Louis Sacks, a market trader who had come to Britain from Poland, and his wife, Louisa (nee Frumkin), who had driven ambulances in London during the blitz.

A Greyhound bus tour of the US in the summer of 1967, when he was just 19, enabled him to meet many leading religious figures, including Menachem Mendel Schneerson. Sacks ditched his plans to become an accountant, and decided to become a rabbi instead.

At Cambridge, he met his wife-to-be, Elaine Taylor, who was training to be a hospital radiographer. The couple, who went on to have three children, married when he was 22 and she 21, in 1970, enabling them to mark their golden wedding this year. He decided three weeks after meeting her that she was the one: last year, he told the Sunday Times that he had bought a ring from Woolworth’s and proposed to Elaine, on one knee, in Oxford Circus, determined to seal the deal.

Sacks’ rise was rapid. He received his rabbinical ordination in 1976 at Jews’ College (now the London School of Jewish Studies), where he later taught and served as principal (1984-90), and spent a short time heading religious teaching to children in Luton before becoming rabbi of Golders Green synagogue in 1978. A move to Marble Arch synagogue in central London – where he was rabbi from 1983 to 1990 – brought him into contact with many of the leading philanthropists of Anglo-Jewry, cementing lifelong friendships.

Throughout this time, Sacks, who wrote more than 20 books on Judaism, kept up his academic life, lecturing in moral philosophy at Middlesex Polytechnic, or as a visiting professor at Essex University.

By 1990 it seemed clear that there was no better candidate to succeed Jakobovits as chief rabbi than Sacks. He was a compelling orator who spoke beautiful, declarative English, and he had – as well as a classical British education – a warm and lively approach to the complexity of being a diaspora Jew.

He and the newly-designated archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, became good friends at the same time through a mutual passion for Arsenal football club. Both were invited to Highbury stadium to watch a midweek match, an invitation accepted with alacrity. But, as he recalled, the presence of two men with an assumed hotline to heaven did nothing for Arsenal’s chances that night.

He remembered: “That night Arsenal went down to their worst home defeat in 63 years, losing 6-2 to Manchester United. The next day a national paper carried the story in its diary column, and concluded: ‘If the archbishop of Canterbury and the chief rabbi between them cannot bring about a win for Arsenal, does this not finally prove that God does not exist!’ The day after, I sent them the following reply: ‘To the contrary, what it proves is that God exists. It’s just that He supports Manchester United.’”

His assumption of the role of chief rabbi was greeted with something like rock-star rapture. But it was not long before he ran into controversy: having proposed a communal charity walkabout, open to all, he then refused to allow people from the Jewish Gay and Lesbian Helpline to take part. It was, perhaps, a calculation designed to mollify the strictly Orthodox – and, sadly, it was only the first example of Sacks’ problem with the religious right wing of the community.

For every kind and inclusive thing he did – and there were many, such as private, encouraging phone calls to those who needed metaphorical hand-holding – there were other occasions in which his decisions seemed inexplicable to centrist Jews. Why, they wondered, was it fine to be friends with an archbishop but not to sit with a Progressive Jew?

The problem, in hindsight, was Sacks’ inability to stamp his religious authority on the rebellious right. Whereas Jakobovits and, today, Mirvis, were able to say “I am chief rabbi, and this or that will happen because I say so”, Sacks appeared to concede on too many occasions. The two most controversial clashes were what have been termed the Hugo Gryn affair and the Dignity of Difference row.

When Rabbi Hugo Gryn, then both Britain’s best-known Holocaust survivor and the leading figure in Reform Judaism, died in 1996, Sacks did not attend his funeral lest that be seen as countenancing non-Orthodoxy. A massive row erupted, not least after the Jewish Chronicle published a leaked letter which Sacks had written, in Hebrew, which described Gryn as “among those who destroy the faith”. Both the newspaper and Sacks were attacked; and Sacks’ subsequent decision to attend a memorial service for Gryn did not appease communal anger.

In 2002 another row erupted, seemingly arcane on the surface but pointing to deep divisions in the community. Sacks published a new book, The Dignity of Difference, whose central message was that each religious community had parity in its attempt to find God. He had written: “God has spoken to mankind in many languages: through Judaism to Jews, Christianity to Christians, Islam to Muslims … No one creed has a monopoly on spiritual truth; no one civilisation encompasses all the spiritual, ethical and artistic expressions of mankind ... In heaven there is truth; on earth there are truths ... God is greater than religion. He is only partially comprehended by any faith.”

But despite his initial protestations that the book was intended for a wider, non-Jewish audience, Sacks was forced into an embarrassing climbdown. He was summoned to explain himself before a group of rabbis, one of whom accused him of “heresy”; and in the second edition of the book, he rewrote several passages, acknowledging that “one or two sentences might be misunderstood”.

If his relations with the religious right wing were difficult and complicated, those with the Progressive side of Judaism were scarcely less so. Ironically, one of his relations by marriage was the leading Liberal Judaism rabbi, David Goldberg, who took a mischievous delight in reminding people of the link.

The Reform rabbi Jonathan Romain, meanwhile, while admiring Sacks’ intellectual brilliance, called for him to be the last such holder of the post. Britain did not need a chief rabbi, he argued, not least because “although Sacks entered office in 1991 with great hopes for his ability to unify the Jewish community, he has proved unable to do so, and many would say that he has become a highly divisive figure”.

Knighted in 2005 and made a life peer in 2009, Sacks became a “must-hear” guest around the world as he spoke to many communities, as often in Hebrew as in English. He won many awards and distinctions, including the interfaith Templeton prize in 2016; and his translations of religious books to accompany services in the Jewish calendar became standard works in many homes. As a world-renowned scholar, he became professor of Jewish thought at Yeshiva University, New York, in 2013.

For much of his life – starting in 1967 with the outbreak of the six-day war – Sacks was both an outspoken and trenchant defender of Israel, and a fierce opponent of antisemitism. He made frequent radio and TV appearances, and in the last few years he used his place in the House of Lords to denounce the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. He described Corbyn’s reported comments that Zionists had no sense of “English irony” as among “the most offensive comments since Enoch Powell’s rivers of blood speech”.

He is survived by Elaine, their children, Joshua, Dina and Gila, and three brothers.

 • Jonathan Sacks, Lord Sacks, rabbi, born 8 March 1948; died 7 November 2020

• This article was amended on 9 November 2020. It was not George Carey’s box at Highbury stadium where he and Jonathan Sacks watched a midweek Arsenal match, as an earlier version said, but that of a third party.





No.5 article:
Jonathan Sacks, former chief rabbi, is buried in modest ceremony

Service that might have drawn hundreds took place before 30 people under UK’s Covid rules

Jonathan Sacks, the former chief rabbi, was buried in a small ceremony on Sunday, less than 24 hours after his death from cancer was announced, in keeping with Jewish custom.

The service was conducted in line with government Covid guidelines, meaning a maximum of 30 people present. The funeral of a such a high-profile figure in the Jewish community would have attracted hundreds or thousands of mourners in non-pandemic times.

Sacks, who was 72, was the Orthodox chief rabbi for 22 years until 2013, and was made a life peer in 2009. His regular Thought for the Day broadcasts on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme and newspaper articles ensured his views on values and society reached far beyond the Jewish community.

He had announced three weeks ago that he was being treated for unspecified cancer, after twice being successfully treated for the disease earlier in his life.

The Prince of Wales was among those to pay tribute, saying Sacks’ “wisdom, scholarship and humanity were without equal”.

Charles said in a statement: “His immense learning spanned the sacred and the secular, and his prophetic voice spoke to our greatest challenges with unfailing insight and boundless compassion. His wise counsel was sought and appreciated by those of all faiths and none, and he will be missed more than words can say.”

Boris Johnson, Keir Starmer and Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, issued tributes after the announcement of Sacks’ death at the weekend.

Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Catholic archbishop of Westminster, expressed sorrow to “the worldwide Jewish community on the loss of this great figure … I have lost a friend, the Jewish community a great leader, humanity an eloquent spokesman.”

The Council of Christians and Jews described Sacks as a “towering religious leader and intellectual”.

It said: “His books, other writings, lectures and media appearances were followed and admired not only by the Jewish community but millions of Christians, and people of all faiths and none … His influence will endure for years to come through the many he inspired, influenced and touched with his warmth and wisdom.”

Ronald Lauder, the president of the World Jewish Congress, said the Jewish world was profoundly saddened. Sacks was a “riveting orator and brilliant author who brought the timeless teachings of Jewish scripture to both Jews and non-Jews alike, fusing Jewish tradition with modern thought … He was also a pillar of integrity.”





No.6 article:
Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala had been expected to be confirmed as leader on Monday 

The race to find a new leader of the World Trade Organization has been thrown into renewed uncertainty after the cancellation of a key appointment meeting following the US presidential election.

The Geneva-based WTO, which acts as an international arbiter for trading disputes, said it had put off a meeting scheduled for Monday that had been called to appoint Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as its next director general.

Donald Trump’s administration opposed her selection in one of its final acts before the US election, despite the former Nigerian finance minister securing the overwhelming backing of the WTO’s 164 members.

The special meeting of the trade body’s general council had been convened to take a formal decision on the appointment. Officials had been set to put forward Dr Okonjo-Iweala as the candidate most likely to attract a majority, after most countries expressed a preference for her over South Korea’s Yoo Myung-hee.

Okonjo-Iweala had moved a step closer to becoming the first woman and the first African to be director of the global trade watchdog after securing backing from the EU, China, Japan and Australia. Liam Fox, the leading Brexiter and former international trade secretary, had run as the UK government’s preferred candidate but failed to win enough support from other countries to reach the last two in the process.

Trade experts said Joe Biden defeating Trump in last week’s election may have led to countries calling for a delay in the WTO leadership race, with the aim of securing the Biden White House’s backing for Okonjo-Iweala after he takes charge in January.

The delay in selecting a new WTO director general comes at a fragile moment for the world economy amid the second wave of Covid-19, and after years of criticism of the WTO and calls for reform from Trump.

The WTO said the meeting would be postponed until further notice, during which time the organisation would continue undertaking consultations with delegations from countries around the world to pick a new leader.

It said in a statement: “For reasons including the health situation and current events, delegations will not be in a position to take a formal decision on 9 November.”





No.7 article:
US close to 10m cases, with India second on 8.5m cases, followed by Brazil and Russia

The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has passed 50 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker, which showed that the US, India and Brazil have the highest figures.

A total of 50,052,204 infections had been reported around the world by Sunday evening.

The US has the highest number of infections, with 9,879,323, followed by India with 8,507,754 and Brazil, which has reported 5,653,561. Russia has registered the fourth highest number of cases (1,760,420) while France’s total stands at 1,709,773.

The new total came as a Reuters tally calculated that October was the worst month of the coronavirus pandemic so far, with its second wave in the past 30 days accounting for a quarter of all cases.

The last month saw the spread of the virus accelerate at a rapid pace: while it took 32 days for cases to rise from 30 million to 40 million, it only took 21 days to add another 10 million.

The bleak milestone followed the US reporting more than 100,000 new cases on four consecutive days. The country broke its own record for daily cases nearly every day last week.

Europe has also greatly contributed to the global surge in cases. The region has reported around 12 million infections, making it the worst-affected region, overtaking Latin America. It also makes up almost a quarter (24%) of coronavirus deaths.

A Reuters analysis has shown the number of new coronavirus cases in Europe is growing by around one million every three days.

The second wave has recently led to governments across Europe tightening restrictions and imposing new lockdowns, with shutdowns ordered in England, France, Germany and Greece.

The global death toll stands at more than 1,250,000, according to Johns Hopkins. The US, Brazil and India have recorded the most fatalities, followed by Mexico and the UK.





No.8 article:
Ethiopia: reports of heavy casualties in fighting in Tigray

Country’s prime minister sent in federal troops and aircraft last week in major escalation

Heavy casualties have been reported in ongoing clashes between the Ethiopian army and troops loyal to the ruling party of the restive northern province of Tigray.

At least six people were killed and 60 people wounded in one location along the Tigray border alone, Doctors Without Borders said on Saturday, and a medical official said nearly 100 government soldiers had been treated for gunshot wounds at a hospital in the northern Amhara region.

The Ethiopian prime minister and last year’s Nobel peace prize winner, Abiy Ahmed, sent federal troops and aircraft into Tigray on Wednesday in a major escalation of a long-running feud.

The fighting has brought Africa’s second-most populous nation to the brink of what analysts say could be a long and bloody civil war.

Abiy and military leaders have touted Ethiopian soldiers’ successes, but a communications blackout in the region has made their accounts difficult to verify. Both sides have access to heavy weapons, armour and considerable stocks of ammunition.

Abiy also replaced his army chief on Sunday and appointed the deputy chief, Berhanu Jula, to take charge over the Ethiopian National Defence Force. The move was part of a wider reshuffle that appeared to be aimed at bringing the most vocal supporters of the Tigray operation to the forefront.

Ambulances can frequently be seen ferrying wounded combatants to hospital on roads in northern Amhara,, and there have been eyewitness reports of funerals for militia men.

“We have had 98 cases. All of them are soldiers from the national army,” said a doctor in the town of Sanja, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

He said there had been no fatalities at the hospital, but that more serious cases had been transported to larger hospitals in the city of Gondar and elsewhere.

Reports of dead and wounded soldiers have mounted in recent days in Amhara, where a humanitarian aid worker said three had died and 35 had been treated on Saturday. Five were reported killed and 105 injured on Friday.

Countries in the region fear the fighting could spark all-out civil war and destabilise the Horn of Africa, one of the continent’s most fragile regions.

The UN has warned of a major humanitarian crisis if as many as 9 million people flee all-out fighting or Tigray remains largely cut off from the world.

In a televised address on Sunday, Abiy accused Tigray’s regional leaders of preparing for war with the federal government since 2018. The group had siphoned development funds to buy weapons and train militias, he said.

A senior general told a state-owned newspaper that several locations in Tigray are now under the federal army’s control. “The army has destroyed all the heavy weapons controlled by the infidel group. Now it is marching forward,” he said.

The Tigray People’s Liberation Front dominated politics in Ethiopia for nearly three decades before Abiy came to power in 2018 after anti-government protests. It now only controls its home province.

Tigray’s leaders have complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and scapegoated for the country’s woes under Abiy.

The long-running feud became more intense after Tigray held its own elections in September in defiance of Abiy’s government, which had decided to postpone national polls because of the coronavirus pandemic.

MPs voted on Saturday to suspend Tigray’s leaders and install a caretaker administration in the province.

In the capital, Addis Ababa, the mayor announced on Sunday that 10 high-ranking city officials from Tigray had been arrested, accusing them of “betraying the people” and working “to destabilise the peace in our city and engage in cruel and terroristic motives”.

But in a Twitter post Sunday, Abiy called on Ethiopians to avoid discriminating against Tigrayans, who make up about 6% of the country’s 110 million people. “I would like to reiterate that no Tigrayan brother or sister should be a victim of identity-based illegal acts, and this responsibility lies on all Ethiopians,” he said.

The Ethiopian authorities have not yet formally responded to a request for dialogue from the UN secretary general, António Guterres.





No.9 article:
Crowds attempt to hand-deliver letters urging reform of the country’s monarchy

Riot police fired water cannon at crowds of Thai pro-democracy protesters as they attempted to reach Bangkok’s Grand Palace on Sunday to hand-deliver letters urging reform of the country’s powerful monarchy.

Demonstrations have spread across Thailand in recent months, led by young people who have risked lengthy jail sentences to call for the power and wealth of the royal family to be curbed, and for the resignation of the prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha.

On Sunday evening, water cannon were briefly fired at crowds, but protesters did not vacate the area. Later, demonstrators, who wore goggles and hard hats for protection, moved buses and took down barbed wire that had been used by police to block access to the palace. They carried mock letterboxes, made from old rubbish bins and addressed to the Bureau of the Royal Household, which were filled with messages calling for reform.

In a statement addressed to King Maha Vajiralongkorn, protesters said he should listen to “fearless criticisms”, as well as to flattery and praise.

“It does not matter whether the people love the king or not, he must love them all the same. If the king can talk to the people who love him, he must also talk to the people who do not all the same,” it said. It was signed “with power of equal human dignity” by “people”.

The statement was a reference to highly unusual comments made by the king last week when, stopped by Channel 4 news and CNN as he walked among royalist supporters, he was asked for his response to the demonstrations. “We love them all the same,” the king said of protesters. Asked if there was room for compromise, he replied: “Thailand is the land of compromise,” before quickly turning away.

In their statement, protesters said their demands for reform were “the utmost compromise”.

Protesters have breached a longstanding taboo to call for a royal family that is answerable to the public. They say the monarchy’s budget should be reduced and the king’s private funds separated from the crown assets. The king, they say, should not endorse any further coups, nor should the royal family be protected from criticism.

According to the constitution, the monarchy is “enthroned in a position of revered worship”. Anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir apparent or regent” can face up to 15 years in prison. Sunday was the second time police have used water cannon on protesters, who have gathered for largely peaceful rallies for months. Earlier in the day, dozens of royalists held a small counter-rally.

A police spokesman told Reuters that water cannon had been fired only as a warning. The Bangkok authority’s emergency unit said one police officer and four protesters were hurt during the brief confrontation outside the palace.

At least 84 protesters have been charged since 13 October in connection with the protests. Charges such as sedition, which carries a sentence of up to seven years, have been used against demonstrators. Amnesty International recently said the government was using “vague, overly restrictive laws to harass and silence people”.





No.10 article:
Exclusive: ICU nurses will be allowed to treat two people at same time as hospital admissions soar

Nurses will be allowed to look after two critically ill Covid-19 patients at the same time after NHS bosses relaxed the rule requiring one-to-one treatment in intensive care as hospitals come under intense strain.

NHS England has decided to temporarily suspend the 1:1 rule as the number of people who are in hospital very sick with Covid has soared to 11,514, of whom 986 are on a ventilator.

The move comes amid concern that intensive care units, which went into the pandemic already short of nurses, are being hit by staff being off sick or isolating as a result of Covid.

It follows a warning last week by Prof Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, that the Covid resurgence could overwhelm the NHS.

Dr Alison Pittard, the dean of the Faculty of Intensive Care, which represents doctors in ICUs, welcomed the shift to a more “flexible” nurse/patient staffing ratio in critical care. But she said it must be used only for as long as the second wave is putting units under serious pressure.

“Covid has placed the NHS, and critical care in particular, in an unenviable position and we must admit everyone for whom the benefits of critical care outweigh the burdens. This means relaxing the normal staffing ratios to meet this demand in such a way that delivers safe care, but also takes account of the impact this may have on staff health and wellbeing.

“The 1:2 ratio is a maximum ratio, to be used only to support Covid activity, [and] not for planned care, and is not sustainable in the long term. This protects staff and patients”, she said.

NHS England has agreed the relaxation with the British Association of Critical Care Nurses, which represents specialist nurses who work in high-dependency units and ICUs. They are due to confirm the arrangement in a formal announcement soon.

Whitty used an interview last week with the British Medical Journal to warn that the combination of Covid and usual cold season surge in illnesses will bring “an extremely difficult winter for the NHS – one that I suspect, unfortunately, will be unlike any we’ve seen in recent memory”.

One of the ways Covid can lead to deaths is through “an over-running of the emergency services such that all emergency care stops. We fortunately avoided that in the first wave, but it’s not a given if we don’t take strong action.”

The NHS-wide lack of critical care nurses was a key factor in the 1:2 decision, Pittard added.

“The [revised] guidance is needed because we do not have enough critical care staff to support the increase in beds required to care for all the patients with Covid and those with other conditions needing admission.

“There is [also ongoing Covid-related] sickness that makes the current situation worse, but the main issue is the longstanding failure to expand the workforce, and that is doctors, nurses and allied health professionals,” she added.

The new 1:2 ratio is much better than NHS England’s decision in the spring to allow critical care nurses to look after as many as six Covid patients if patient numbers required that. However, it is thought that despite that change then, no nurse cared for more than four patients in the first peak.

Susan Masters, the Royal College of Nursing’s director of nursing, policy and public affairs, said: “Reducing the ratio of nurses to patients must be a temporary measure and only when it is absolutely necessary. We must ensure patient safety at the same time as protecting the wellbeing of the nurses who care for them.

“This change means increasing the workload of intensive care nurses and there must be consideration of the physical and emotional toll this will take.”

NHS England declined to comment directly on the change in guidance. A spokesperson said only that “the NHS has 13,000 more full-time equivalent nurses than we did last year and record numbers have signed up to start nursing degrees this autumn”.

“However, with Covid-19 infections rising again both here and across Europe, the medical royal colleges and professional associations have made it clear that just as they did during the first Covid wave, doctors, nurses and other health professionals will of course treat everyone who needs critical care.”





No.11 article:
President Aliyev says country’s forces have taken Shusha, despite Armenian denials

Azerbaijan has said it has recaptured the symbolic town of Shusha, a claim denied by Armenian officials as fighting in the bloody six-week-old battle over the Nagorno-Karabakh territory appeared to reach an apex.

“[This day] will become a great day in the history of Azerbaijan,” said Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev, in a televised address. His announcement on Sunday was greeted with celebrations on the streets of Baku as Azerbaijanis gathered to wave flags and sing.

Officials from the Nagorno-Karabakh administration and Armenia’s defence ministry denied Aliyev’s statement, saying heavy fighting continued in the vicinity of the town, known in Armenian as Shushi.

“Shushi remains an unattainable pipe dream for Azerbaijan. Despite heavy destruction, the fortress city withstands the blows of the enemy,” the Nagorno-Karabakh rescue service said.

As many as 5,000 people have died since Azerbaijan launched an offensive in late September to reclaim Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountain enclave, internationally recognised as Azerbaijani territory but under the de facto control of Armenians since a ceasefire was agreed between the two former Soviet neighbours in 1994.

The war is complicated by the growing rivalry between Turkey and Russia for regional dominance. Azerbaijan has the outright support of Ankara, while Moscow, which sells arms to both sides, appears wary of honouring its military pact with Armenia if the violence extends outside the disputed territory.

Shusha, Nagorno-Karabakh’s second biggest settlement, is a mountaintop town that was mostly populated by Azeris before the 1990s war. It is strategically located on the main corridor connecting the territory with Armenia and regarded by both sides as an important spiritual centre.

Its Armenian Orthodox cathedral was hit by Azerbaijani shelling in October. On Sunday, unconfirmed reports surfaced that the Yukhari Govhar Agha mosque – which Azeris have been unable to access for almost 30 years – has also been damaged by shelling.

The town could serve as a key staging post for an Azerbaijani assault on the enclave’s largest city, Stepanakert. Both have come under heavy shelling in recent days, including in civilian areas – claims denied by Azerbaijan’s defence ministry.

Most of Stepanakert’s 150,000-strong population has already fled the violence, but as Azerbaijani forces drew closer over the weekend many of those who chose to stay also packed their belongings into cars, traffic choking up the only road out of the territory.

The civilian cost in the bloodiest fighting in more than 25 years in the Caucasus has been high on both sides, with 54 Armenian civilians and 91 Azerbaijani civilians killed as Armenia retaliates by hitting Azerbaijani cities far from the frontlines. Both sides deny deliberately targeting civilian areas and the use of banned cluster-bomb munitions.

Emboldened by Turkish support, Azerbaijan has gained the upper hand in the conflict, retaking much of the land in and around Nagorno-Karabakh occupied by Armenia that it lost in the previous war. Much of the gains are due to Azerbaijan’s state-of-the-art military hardware, including the use of Turkish- and Israeli-made drones.

Aliyev vowed on Sunday to continue the offensive until Armenia completely withdraws from the territory. Azerbaijan’s chief ally, the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, congratulated Aliyev on his Shusha victory later on Sunday.

“I congratulate my Azeri brothers’ Shusha victory … I believe [it] is a sign that the rest of the occupied lands will be liberated soon too,” said Erdoğan, addressing crowds in Turkey’s north-west province of Kocaeli.

Two Russian and one US brokered ceasefire to date have done nothing to stop the hostilities, with each side immediately accusing the other of violations.

The fierce fighting over the weekend comes amid reports that Ankara and Moscow have drawn up a draft ceasefire deal under which Armenia would surrender five of the seven Azerbaijani regions it currently occupies and agree to the establishment of a new corridor connecting Baku to the Azerbaijan territory of Nakhchivan, which is surrounded by Armenian land.

Turkish and Russian peacekeeping forces would then be deployed to uphold the ceasefire, Middle East Eye reported.





No.12 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Tests will investigate whether virus evades antibodies from recovered patients and those in vaccine trials

Scientists in the UK are working to secure samples of a mutant form of coronavirus that arose in Danish mink farms and spread into humans, prompting ministers to ban non-UK citizens arriving from Denmark.

Danish health authorities raised the alarm over the mutant virus last week and announced a cull of the nation’s 17 million mink as the Statens Serum Institut (SSI) in Copenhagen warned of potentially “serious consequences” for vaccines if it was allowed to spread internationally.

Tests in Denmark have picked up more than 200 people with coronavirus mutations linked to mink farms since June, but concern centres on a dozen cases in North Jutland of people who fell ill in September with a unique variant of the virus. 

Known as “cluster five”, the variant has four separate mutations in the so-called spike protein that the virus uses to enter cells, and on which most vaccines are based.

Researchers at the SSI found that antibodies from people who recovered from coronavirus were less effective at neutralising the mutant strain, but have not made details of their experiments public. There is no evidence that the virus, found on five Danish mink farms, spreads more easily or causes more severe disease in humans than common strains of the virus.

While the Danish scientists believe the mutations are concerning because of their potential to make vaccines less effective, one expert told the Guardian the fears were overblown and that the cluster five variant might already have died out in humans. 

Eight of the dozen cases in Denmark had direct contact with the mink farming industry, with only four identified in the local community.

Amid the uncertainty, scientists advising the UK government took part in talks over the weekend to acquire samples of the mutant virus from the Danish authorities. The virus will go through a series of tests to investigate whether or not it evades antibodies from recovered patients and those enrolled in vaccine trials.

Further experiments will focus on how well the mutant virus grows in human cells, how well it may spread between humans, and why the mutations arose in the first place. At least six countries, including Denmark, Spain, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands and the US, have reported outbreaks of coronavirus in mink farms.

Prof Peter Openshaw, a member of the UK government’s New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group, said the mutations may be nothing more than the virus evolving to spread in mink, but added that it was sensible to shut down the spread “as a matter of caution” until scientists had more evidence. 

“It could be that the mutations mean something in terms of mink to mink transmission, but are irrelevant to human transmission,” he said.

Prof Francois Balloux, the director of UCL’s Genetics Institute said mink are highly susceptible to coronavirus, and since they outnumber humans three to one in Denmark, it was sensible to cull the animals to prevent them fuelling the epidemic.

Balloux criticised what he called “alarmist” messaging from Denmark over the threat the mutations posed, and said the cluster five variant may well have died out in humans because it failed to spread effectively. 

“I really don’t think we should be particularly concerned about them. There are many other mutations not acquired in mink that are more concerning in terms of vaccine escape,” he said. One such mutation, known as N439K, has already been found to confer some resistance to antibodies.

callout-coronavirus

A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said there was no evidence the new strain had spread from Denmark to the UK, adding: “While there have been some reports of mink to human transmission, we do not consider this a risk as there are no fur farms in the UK.

“We are working closely with international partners to understand the situation in Denmark and we continue to keep the situation under review,” they said.





No.13 article:
Bolivia&#x27;s new leftwing president: &#x27;We have reclaimed democracy&#x27;

Luis Arce takes power after landslide win for Movement for Socialism, but experts predict bumpy road ahead

Bolivia’s new president, Luis Arce, has vowed to rebuild his country’s battered economy, revive ties with leftwing neighbours and serve one term only, as he prepared to take office after October’s landslide election.

Speaking to the Guardian before his inauguration on Sunday, the UK-educated economist was cautious about characterising his victory as proof that Latin America’s leftwing “pink tide” of the early 2000s was bouncing back after a period of rightwing dominance. Since 2018 the left has returned to power in Mexico and Argentina, while a leftwing economist is well placed to win Ecuador’s presidential election in February.

But Arce’s win did represent a sensational domestic resurrection for the Movement for Socialism (Mas) party, which some observers thought was doomed after its figurehead, Evo Morales, was driven abroad last year after a failed election, social unrest and what supporters call a US-backed coup. “The left is not defeated in Bolivia – on the contrary, we have a new opportunity now to work for the Bolivian people,” the incoming president said.

Arce, 57, said his emphatic first-round win showed Latin Americans would no longer accept anti-democratic, rightwing regimes, such as the interim government that took power after Morales abandoned Bolivia in November 2019. “We have reclaimed democracy for Bolivia, and our message is that we will not tolerate any kind of de facto dictatorial regime or coup in Latin America,” he said, promising to seek justice for the victims of a shooting of unarmed civilians at the height of last year’s unrest.

He promised to repair ties with Argentina’s Peronist leaders and restore relations with the leftwing governments of Cuba and Venezuela, which Bolivia’s conservative interim president, Jeanine Áñez, severed, despite lacking a democratic mandate. He said Juan Guaidó, the Trump-backed Venezuelan opposition leader who has been trying to topple Venezuela’s president, Nicolás Maduro, since declaring himself the country’s rightful leader in January 2019, “represents no one”.

But Arce also signalled he would be pragmatic, “leaving matters of ideology and politics to one side” when dealing with leaders of different stripes, such as Brazil’s far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro. “We want to do good business with our neighbours,” he said.

On Sunday morning thousands of supporters gathered outside the legislative assembly in La Paz to see Arce sworn in. As Bolivia’s green, yellow and red presidential sash was placed over his shoulders, they chanted their new leader’s nickname: “Lucho! Lucho! Lucho! Lucho!”

Guests included Argentina’s leftwing leader Alberto Fernández and Venezuela’s foreign minister Jorge Arreaza. But the conservative presidents of Colombia and Paraguay, Iván Duque and Mario Abdo Benítez, also flew in.

“We are starting a new phase in our history,” Arce told them, promising to govern “for all” Bolivia’s people.

Experts see a bumpy road ahead for Arce, with Bolivia still reeling from the humanitarian and economic impact of one of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreaks. Its Covid-19 death rate per million people is currently the fifth highest in the world, higher than that of the US and Mexico.

“I wouldn’t expect any kind of honeymoon,” said Eduardo Gamarra, a Bolivia expert at Florida International University. He said painful austerity measures with the potential to cause “social turmoil” were unavoidable.

Arce, who has a master’s from Warwick University, where he studied in the 90s on a British government scholarship, said the economic outlook was bleak, with GDP falling 11% this year and unemployment as high as 30% in sectors such as construction.

“The first thing we must do is get Bolivia out of this economic crisis. The great majority of Latin America countries are suffering from this right now, but particularly Bolivia … So we must rebuild the economy.”

Arce faces political tests too, not least in the shape of Morales, who is planning a triumphant homecoming from exile in Argentina on Monday. “His big challenge now is how long he can keep Evo out of the picture,” Gamarra said.

Asked whether it was the right moment for Morales to return, Arce said: “He will make that decision. We won’t interfere in his decisions … and of course we will not stop him … It’s a very personal matter for him.”

However, Morales would have no formal role in his administration, Arce said. “This is my government. Comrade Evo is the Mas president and that will be his role … But I will lead the government.”

Morales caused anger last year, even in Mas, for ignoring a referendum and seeking a fourth term in an attempt to extend his 14 years in power.

Arce said he did not plan to remain in office as long, and hoped to see a “renewal” of his party with the emergence of a new generation of leaders. “I want to spend five years [in office] and no more,” he said.

Jim Shultz, the founder of the Bolivia-focused Democracy Center, said that was not necessarily how things would turn out. “Let’s see what happens, because the constitution gives him the option of a second [term],” he said. “Of course he would say that at the beginning.”





No.14 article:
Exclusive: poll adds to data showing minorities suffering economic hardship disproportionately 

A leading race equality thinktank has called on the government to do more to protect black, Asian and ethnic minority communities, after a poll added to the growing well of data suggesting their finances have suffered more than those of white Britons due to the coronavirus pandemic.

The poll from YouGov found that BAME people are about a third more likely than the white British population to say that their finances have suffered as a result of Covid.

BAME respondents to the survey were more likely than white people to say they had been negatively affected with respect to every financial metric they were asked about. While 45% of people from BAME communities said their personal finances had suffered as a result of the pandemic, the figure among white respondents was 34%.

BAME people were also more likely to be worried about their job security (54% against 47%) and prospects for career progression (56% against 45%).

Alba Kapoor, a policy Officer for the Runnymede Trust, said: “This data is yet more evidence that black, Asian and ethnic minority communities are being left defenceless whilst bearing the brunt of Covid-19.

“We already know that black, Asian and ethnic minority people are more likely to work in low-paid, precarious jobs and to live in poverty. It is extremely alarming to see how the pandemic is worsening these pre-existing inequalities.

“The government can’t turn a blind eye on this any longer. We urgently need more to protect black, Asian and ethnic minority communities, who face profound financial uncertainty during this time.”

The poll of 2,665 people (including 519 BAME) adds to a substantial body of evidence that people from ethnic minorities are being hit disproportionately hard economically by the pandemic. Several studies have shown different ethnicities to be more at risk of contracting and dying from coronavirus than the white British population. An Office for National Statistics analysis published last month linked the greater risk of death to socioeconomic factors, including occupations.

Kapoor added: “The Runnymede Trust is clear that immediate action must be taken to strengthen the social security safety net and increase statutory sickness pay, as well as to address the underlying economic injustices in our society.”

Analysis by the Guardian has previously found that BAME workers are overrepresented in the sectors hit worst by the economic crisis caused by Covid. Research by the Institute for Social and Economic Research at the University of Essex, published in June, showed that ethnic minority workers who had seen a drop in their hours during the pandemic were more likely than their white counterparts to have lost their jobs as opposed to being furloughed.

The YouGov poll showed people from BAME backgrounds were more likely to be concerned about being able to cope with unexpected expenses such as the boiler breaking down (43% to 34%), affording rent and mortgage payments (29% to 17%), finding the money for council tax (29% against 17%) and bills (28% against 19%).

Additionally, 28% of people from BAME communities feared not being able to afford food and clothes, compared with 21% of white people.

Matt Palframan, director of financial services research at YouGov said: “While the pandemic has created uncertainty for so many, our data suggests that there are some groups who are feeling the impact more than others.”

A Treasury spokesperson said: “We’re doing everything we can to ensure our coronavirus support reaches those who need it the most, across all backgrounds.

“We have extended our financial support across the UK to help millions of people continue to provide for their families, and to provide certainty and stability to businesses through the winter.”





No.15 article:
Art as resistance: exiled Kurdish artist’s daring Istanbul show

Zehra Doğan spent nearly three years in Turkish jails and smuggled out her works as dirty laundry

An exiled artist who spent almost three years in jail in Turkey is shining a light on Kurdish feminism with a daring exhibition of works she created while behind bars.

Zehra Doğan was among the thousands of people who have been caught up in arrests and detentions in Turkey since the 2016 attempted coup against President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s government. Those detained are accused of either supporting the Gülenist movement, blamed for the failed putsch, or the Kurdistan Workers’ party (PKK), a militant group, both of which are outlawed.

She was jailed for a painting depicting a town in the majority-Kurdish south-east of the country that was destroyed in a Turkish military operation after peace talks between Ankara and the PKK broke down in 2015.

The painting, together with her work as a journalist, led to a sentence of two years and 10 months for terrorist propaganda and inciting hatred. On her release last year, the 31-year-old left the country, and fears she will be unable to return.

“In prison, I had two choices: either to accept it, and complain, or to try to continue with my art as a means of resistance,” she said.

Turkish and Kurdish writers have long found their voices in prison, whereas the work of visual artists, cut off from materials and mediums, has suffered. With no paper, Doğan used newspaper, cardboard and clothes as canvases. For paint, she found that crushed herbs made green, kale was a substitute for purple, and pomegranate or menstrual blood could be used for red. Blue ballpoint pen, cigarette ash, coffee grounds, pepper and turmeric make up much of the rest of her prison palette.

The result is a striking series of works that were smuggled out of her cell as dirty laundry, now on display at the Kıraathane24 art space in Istanbul as Not Approved, her first solo exhibition in Turkey.

Women’s faces and bodies, along with Shahmaran, the half-woman, half-snake of Kurdish mythology, feature prominently. Drawn or painted on scarves and cloth, they are depicted as bound up in rope made from human hair, faces twisted in pain from childbirth or menstruation framed by traditional Kurdish clothing and jewellery.

In one piece, Womanhood, ghost-like female faces with no hair stare at the observer from the skirts of a coffee-stained dress hung from a curtain rail. It is pinned up in such a way that it looks as if an invisible wearer is dancing through the air.

The exhibition has been well received by both critics and the public. But despite its success, Kurdish art in Turkey is still struggling to find a platform.

The ruling Justice and Development party (AKP) took steps to improve cultural and linguistic rights for Turkey’s 18% Kurdish minority in 2009, leading to the flourishing of Kurdish media outlets and the establishment of the first Kurdish-language university department at Artuklu in Mardin.

Since talks with the PKK collapsed, however, many Kurdish politicians, including the leader of the pro-Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic party (HDP) Selahattin Demirtaş have been removed from office and imprisoned, and media and cultural projects have been shut down.

The latest victim was Bêrû, a Kurdish-language adaptation of the Italian play Trumpets and Raspberries by the Nobel laureate Dario Fo, which was cancelled by local administrators just hours before opening night in October. It had been billed as the first Kurdish-language production by the Istanbul Municipality City theatre in its 106-year history.

Şener Özmen, a Kurdish artist and writer, said: “Kurdish artists, those who express themselves as Kurdish and are not afraid of that identity, face more and more disappointing difficulties today. Kurdish is still a language that can be banned and is banned.

“A growing issue is theatres, institutions and gallery owners basically suggesting the artists censor themselves [in order not to attract trouble].”

Doğan is more optimistic. From afar, she is helping organise workshops for young Kurdish artists and is collaborating with the Chinese dissident Ai Weiwei in Switzerland soon.

Now out of prison, and outside Turkey, the artist says she is focusing on larger systems of entrapment created by borders. “There is always room for improvement but the Kurdish art scene is changing rapidly at the moment and there is a wave of creative new artists,” she said.

“Kurds have been fighting for our rights for 100 years now. Some choose to fight with weapons. We need to learn to fight through other means. For me, that is art.”





No.16 article:
Coronavirus potentially poses a threat to the very existence of places such as Roccafiorita in Sicily

When the mayor of Roccafiorita received a phone call in October informing him that an employee in his office had tested positive for Covid-19, his heart sank.

Set among the forests at the foot of Mount Kalfa, Roccafiorita is the smallest village in southern Italy. The average age of its 187 inhabitants is over 60. If Covid were to spread among the population, the village could disappear.

“When the phone rang, it was like lightning on a sunny day”, said Concetto Orlando, the mayor. “With this second wave on its way, for a second I thought that we might actually be wiped off the map.”

Last week, the Italian government introduced a semi-lockdown to combat the spread of coronavirus, after an average of over 30,000 new cases a day. Most attention has been directed towards large cities like Milan and Naples, but across the country thousands of small villages are fighting to stay alive.

Of Italy’s 8,000 villages, towns and cities, almost 70% have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Two thousand have fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, and in some places the birth of a baby is so rare that the village bells toll to celebrate the news. Dozens of these villages have been declared coronavirus “red zones” – meaning the risk of infection is particularly high and people cannot leave or enter.

“Demographic desertification had already affected these towns before Covid,” said Mario Alvano, secretary general of the National Association of Italian Municipalities in Sicily. “These are tiny villages that were already destined to become ghost towns in a few decades, where the birth rate is 30 times lower than the death rate. Now Covid risks accelerating their demise.”

Salvatore Occhino, born and raised in Roccafiorita, may never have imagined that after the second world war another terrifying experience would be in store for him, this time in the shape of a pandemic. Occhino is a living monument in the town, not only because at 93 he is its oldest person, but above all because despite his age, he continues to tend to his fields.

“I’m worried,” he said. “If Covid strikes hard, there will be no one left in Roccafiorita. My heart cries out when I think of all the sacrifices we’ve made to keep this village alive. Now we can only place ourselves in the Lord’s hands.”

In at least four regions, Covid-19 has struck small villages, including Galati Mamertino in Sicily, which was designated a red zone on 1 November after 157 of its 2,400 inhabitants tested positive. Experts agree that outbreaks of this sort are the result of the close proximity among townspeople, which is typical of social life in these areas.

“In tiny villages, relations among relatives and friends are intense,” said Tullio Prestileo, a doctor of infectious diseases at the Benfratelli hospital in Palermo. “Here the impression that a friend or relative can infect us is much lower than in large cities. It’s often believed that the isolated location of these villages is itself a form of protection against transmission, and that the problem is an urban one. That’s why when an outbreak occurs in these towns, the transmission is more widespread.”

After the second world war, Roccafiorita began a trend of depopulation as many of its inhabitants left for the US in search of employment. In 2020, three people died and one child was born in Roccafiorita.

The phenomenon is not limited to rural areas – births nationwide are at an all-time low since the unification of Italy. For the first time in 90 years, the Italian population (excluding the foreign population) has fallen to about 55 million, according to the national statistics agency. Globally, Italy ranks behind only Japan in the proportion of older people among the general population. The result has been a rise in the number of ghost towns, where the majority of homes are abandoned. In Roccafiorita, 40% of homes are uninhabited.

Over the years, in an attempt to resuscitate these small towns, mayors have adopted various strategies. Some villages have opened the doors of vacant houses to asylum seekers. Others are practically giving away abandoned homes to anyone who wants to move in.

Last year, the mayor of Sambuca – population 5,000 – received more than 94,000 emails from around the world after publicly announcing the sale of abandoned homes for €1. Sambuca, in the province of Agrigento, has just been declared a “red zone”, after an outbreak caused 130 positive cases and eight deaths.

“The sale of our homes for €1 was a symbolic gesture to bring people back to Sambuca, because villages are made of people, not houses,” said the deputy mayor, Giuseppe Cacioppo. “Believe me, the loss of one person in an ageing, small town is felt more deeply here than in the cities.”

“The death of one our own isn’t just a number,” said Fabio Orlando, the chairman of the city council in Roccafiorita. “It’s a loss of history, a house that becomes abandoned, and a pathway that is closed and forgotten forever.”

Fortunately the threat of an outbreak in Roccafiorita has been averted, for now. A recent round of swab tests carried out on the entire population all came back negative.

On 4 November, Rome designated Sicily as an “orange zone”, at high risk, mainly because of the lack of health facilities and beds in intensive care units. The small towns have paid the highest price for cost-cutting in the health system in the south, where more than 40 hospitals have closed in recent years.

The closest Covid hospital is more than 1 hour and 40 minutes from Roccafiorita.

From the perspective of the village, the light at the end of the tunnel seems far off. The village’s elderly inhabitants hope for a vaccine. But Salvatore Occhino knows a long and arduous winter lies ahead. He says it in his own way, in a recent poem. It’s about how Roccafiorita has changed, how the streets were once dark, and now they’re lit. It ends like this:

“Ora vi saluto tutti, Buonasera / Chi sopravviverà lo vedremo in Primavera”

(“I now bid you all farewell, good evening. Those who survive we’ll see in spring”)







No.17 article:
‘Are you from Wales?’ Wrexham braced for influx of people fleeing England lockdown

Authorities and shopkeepers in Welsh border town expect breaches as Covid ‘firebreak’ shutdown ends

For centuries, its proximity to the border made Wrexham in north Wales a focus of tension and conflict. From Monday, the town’s geographical position means a very 2020 set of challenges will face the authorities and business people.

The 17-day Covid Welsh “firebreak” ends and the town’s shops, pubs, cafes and restaurants will be permitted to reopen.

By then, the month-long lockdown in England – just five miles away – will be four days old and some English residents may be ready to illegally skip across the border to shop and have a drink or meal out.

“It’s bound to happen,” said Matt McHale, who runs the La Baguette sandwich shop close to the train station. “The border is so close. Chester is only 25 minutes away and Liverpool isn’t very far. I don’t see how the police will be able to stop people crossing.”

Mark Finlay, the operations manager for pubs and bars including the Fat Boar in Wrexham, said they would be asking people for ID and turning them away if they were not supposed to be in Wales.

“We’ll be asking the question ‘Are you from Wales?’ and giving them a form to put their name and address on. If they are prepared to lie to have a drink of beer, more fool them.”

Finlay reckons staff will be able to spot incomers. “We know our regulars. Chester isn’t that far away but they are quite different people.”

The Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, said this week the different timings of the two versions of lockdown for Wales and England meant the border was probably the hardest it had been for hundreds of years – but he feared English residents might use Welsh hospitality businesses to “escape” the regime they are living under.

He flagged up Wrexham, the largest town in north Wales. “Think of Wrexham and Chester, just a few miles apart,” he said. “If pubs are closed in Chester [as they were as of Thursday], what impact will that have on people trying to travel to Wales?”

The Welsh economy minister, Ken Skates, suggested the different regimes could be a boom time for places such as Wrexham, pointing out that Welsh residents would not be crossing the border to shop.

“Hospitality businesses, non-essential retail in Wales will have a captive market,” he said. “That is something they surely will be able to celebrate for four weeks during which their equivalents in England are in lockdown.”

If that does happen, it will be a huge relief to businesses in the town. Colin Turnbull, a taxi driver, said it had been almost impossible to make a living during the firebreak. “We’ve been taking perhaps a tenth of our normal fares,” he said.

People are still allowed to travel into Wales from England and vice versa for essential reasons, such as work and education. Turnbull said he would not be quizzing passengers about their reasons for being in Wrexham. “That’s not our job,” he said. “We aren’t the police.”

Andy Gallanders, who runs the Bank Street Social coffee shop, said he thought people were getting tired of lockdown and would cross the border.

But it was not a one-way problem, he said. During the Wales firebreak he knew of people who went from Wrexham to Chester for a night out when English pubs and restaurants were still open.

“I believe we’ll see the reverse now with people coming over from Chester. The onus seems to be on owners and operators to police it, which is very difficult. People won’t stop coming just because Drakeford says they shouldn’t.”

Wayne Price, the chair of the town forum, said he expected the first days post-firebreak could be quiet – but it would build.

He said he expected people would defy the regulations and travel from England – and it would be hard for the ban to be enforced.

“We’re a border town. We have Welsh, English, Portuguese, Polish people living here, a beautiful hotchpotch of different cultures. You can’t always tell if someone is from Liverpool or Wrexham.”

North Wales police will not be setting up roadblocks on the border. There are too many crossing places even if it was inclined to do so. But there will be more patrols on the strategic routes in and out and officers on foot in town centres.

The police and crime commissioner for north Wales, Arfon Jones, said officers would use the “four E’s” – engage, educate, encourage – and as a last-resort enforce. He urged people not to cross the border for a drink or shopping trip.

“If police do come across someone who has travelled to a place like Wrexham for a drink when they shouldn’t, they will take action. People shouldn’t come on shopping trips.

“We’re trying to stop the spread of a deadly virus. People need to take personal responsibility. Wait until the lockdown in England ends. There will still be time for Christmas shopping then.”





No.18 article:
Partisan tactics once used to fight the Nazis have been turned against Alexander Lukashenko’s brutally repressive regime

In Minsk, what people here call the Great Patriotic War is never far away. Monuments, street names and museums venerate the memory of the awful years from 1941 to 1945, when the Soviet Union was at war with Nazi Germany.

Alexander Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus since 1994, has used the years of partisan resistance against the Nazi occupation of the country, and the eventual victory by the Red Army, as the basis for a neo-Soviet, Belarusian identity.

But in recent months, something strange has happened, as Lukashenko faces angry and sustained protests to his continued rule and has launched a vicious crackdown. The war narrative that his regime has done so much to promote still resonates among the population, but with a twist: now, his authorities have become the Nazis.

It has become normal for people to speak about the authorities as “fascists” and “occupiers” who remain in power only due to their military and police might.

Given some of the images that came from the crackdown in August, it is not hard to see why: thousands of Belarusians were subjected to ritual beatings and abuse from security officers dressed in black and wearing balaclavas; military vehicles patrol the streets; and anyone supporting the opposition movement can be snatched for interrogation at any moment.

“We were brought up on endless films and books about fighting the fascists, and then, when you look at the uniforms, the style, the methods used by the authorities, it’s not hard to see why these memories resonated,” said Yulia Chernyavskaya, a Belarusian cultural anthropologist.

Under Lukashenko, the war has been the centrepiece of school history teaching and the focus of hundreds of monuments and museums. The country’s independence day is celebrated on the day Minsk was liberated from the Nazis in 1944, not on the day Belarus actually achieved independence from the Soviet Union.

“We will expand this space to raise new patriots who are able to defend not only themselves, their family and children, but also their country,” said Lukashenko on a visit earlier this year to the Stalin Line, a museum complex outside Minsk where visitors can see bunkers from a defensive line built by the Soviet Union in the 1930s, ride on tanks and get tours from guides in Red Army uniforms.

In 2014, Lukashenko and Russian president Vladimir Putin re-opened Minsk’s main second world war museum, updated for the 21st century. Putin has also used the war victory as the basis for a new Russian identity. Belarus, unlike most of the Soviet Union, spent the majority of the war under occupation, and here, the memories and veneration of the local partisan movement, which fought against the Nazi occupiers and local collaborators, are strong.

One example of protesters drawing on this legacy in the fight against Lukashenko is Vozhyk, a one-page A4 pamphlet of anti-regime caricatures and satirical articles. Vozhyk was a wartime partisan leaflet that was originally called “Crush the fascist vermin”; now, it is released in digital form on an encrypted Telegram channel, and comes with the following message to would-be distributors: “Partisans! Download the PDF, print it out, and stick it in your apartment entrance … We are the majority and together we will win!”

One of the editors of Vozhyk, who wished to remain anonymous, said she had chosen the name because of the resonance with the war period: “The authorities are monsters and they fit the definition of fascism. During the August violence, it was incredible how people were surviving: they went out, came home, had a quick sleep and then went out again. The partisan gene is alive in all of us.” 

It is true that almost overnight, tens of thousands of Belarusians acquired their own white-red-white flag, which had been effectively banned for the past two decades. Groups on the app Telegram have sprung up to organise the protest in individual towns, streets or apartment blocks, with the participants often using conspiratorial methods to shield their identities from each other, so that if one gets caught by authorities, they will not be able to give the others away. In short: a modern partisan movement sprang up in a matter of weeks.

Lukashenko’s supporters claim they can’t see the parallels. “Lukashenko has helped a lot of people, people here have good lives, and they are crying about fascists. What fascists?” said Alexander Metla, who runs the Stalin Line complex. Tens of thousands of school pupils and other visitors each year watch military reconstructions and relive a heroised version of the war effort at the complex, which features a bust of Stalin and a large photograph of Lukashenko in military uniform at the entrance.

For their part, the authorities have tried to show that it is the protesters who are the descendants of the Nazis, pointing out that the white-red-white flag was used by Nazi collaborators (but ignoring its longer history). During the weekly Sunday protests, the army guards the second world war museum with barbed wire and a row of armed troops. Defence minister Viktor Khrenin said rallies using the white-red-white flag in such “sacred places” would be dealt with firmly by the army.

Such rhetoric worked well in Ukraine in 2014, when the Kremlin portrayed the Maidan revolution in Kyiv as a “fascist coup” and backed a separatist movement in the country’s east that rallied behind Soviet second world war symbolism. Using the same playbook has not had the same effect in Belarus, however. Partly because far-right nationalists simply do not exist in Belarus, and partly down to the sheer brutality of Lukashenko’s crackdown and the courage of those who continue to stand up against it.

“We always laughed at this stereotype of the Belarusians as partisans as if it was nonsense, but it was really quite surprising how people suddenly acquired these tactics as if they knew it from their birth,” said Chernyavskaya.





No.19 article:
How long Covid forced me to confront my past and my identity

For years, I repressed thinking about three things that shaped my life and my body. But the fourth blow of coronavirus pushed it all out into the open

For six years now, I have been writing down three good things that have happened in my day, every day. It doesn’t matter how big or small they are. It could be having pastries in bed. Spotting a fox in the garden. Successfully descaling a kettle. I do not call this my gratitude journal, because I am not a motivational wellness blogger. But I have found it vital, in order to rewire my brain to focus on the things that have gone right. Left unattended, my thoughts have a tendency to slip into a downward spiral, to somewhere much darker.

I grew up in Italy, where there is a saying: “Non c’è due senza tre”, which roughly means “Good (or bad) things come in threes”. For most of my adult life, there have been three main issues that have preoccupied my thoughts when I’m lying in bed at night. I have guarded them preciously: I barely mention them, even to my closest friends. But, sometimes, repressing thoughts takes more effort than confronting them.

The first of the three has always been there. I was born with a malformation in my left forearm: it is several inches shorter than the right and bends at the elbow; my left hand has four fingers. I had several rounds of corrective surgery as a child, travelling around to meet doctors and specialists (one told my mother: “Of course, she’ll never be Cindy Crawford,” as I sat next to her and burst into tears). For six months, aged 13, I wore an Ilizarov frame: the bones in my arm were broken and attached to metal screws, which were gradually lengthened to stimulate a couple of inches of growth. Somewhat comically, I wore a cardigan over it, pretending people wouldn’t notice me walking around with a sharp metal frame attached to my body.

Unsurprisingly, added to the usual pressures placed on young women to look a certain way, my arm did not help my self-esteem growing up. It certainly made dating… interesting, though, in retrospect, it did at least keep away anyone closed-minded enough to be wary of difference. I was never bullied, exactly, but the odd comment and glance has stuck in my mind with a peculiar persistence. The cashier who, out of the blue, confronted me with a barrage of questions, including how I ate. The inquisitive looks from children who have not yet learned how to discreetly ignore. The friend of a friend who caught a glimpse of it and cried out: “What is that?” before quickly realising her mistake.

Perhaps you would not notice it immediately if you met me. I prefer long sleeves, and am keenly aware, especially around new people, of ways of concealing it. Maybe once a year, thinking about it will overwhelm me to the point of tears; normally it is simply whirring in the back of my mind, a constant murmur of background noise. Day to day, it’s not so much the things I can’t physically do that bother me – although not being able to play a musical instrument is the thing I most regret – as the everyday activities I avoid because I know they will cause me distress: group exercise classes, swimming, manicures. People are usually too polite to bring it up in conversation – which works perfectly for me, so please don’t start now (if I want to discuss it, I’ll broach the subject myself, though I probably won’t).

The second thing that keeps me up at night was revealed when I was 15. My periods hadn’t started, so I visited a gynaecologist to check whether everything was in order. For the months leading up to the visit I remember feeling low-level anxiety about it: what if something else was wrong with me? But what were the odds – I had already had such bad luck. It turned out everything was not in order: I was diagnosed with another rare syndrome, Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser (MRKH), meaning I had been born with an underdeveloped uterus, and would never be able to have children.

The following month passed in a blur. I cried on the sofa; I went to school; I went to the cinema, feeling numb. I more or less stopped eating for a year. I cut my hair short, dyed it black and made some angsty art. I listened to a lot of PJ Harvey and read existentialist Russian novels whose intense emotions matched my own. Seeing as the traditional womanly accomplishments of beauty and fertility were now out of reach, I threw myself into studying, finishing school with the highest results in my year. I discovered alcohol.

At 15, I had never thought about children: I had imagined any broodiness would start after my periods, which never came. Now, aged 32, I need to confront the realities of what the diagnosis will mean for me in the long term. Whatever my partner and I decide to do will come with its own set of complications. If we don’t have children, which considering the state of the world feels like an increasingly attractive option, there will be the inevitable questions and sad looks. If we were to try surrogacy – via an ethical, safe and non-exploitative route – people would judge us for using the woman as a vessel. Adoption can be extremely complicated. At the moment, all options are on the table.

The third issue was a one-off event: aged 18, I was sexually assaulted at university after having my drink spiked. I will be brief about this, mainly to spare my parents the pain (the only thing they need to know is that it was not their fault and it wasn’t mine; the blame lies entirely with the man involved). Survivors do not owe you their story. I repressed thinking about the assault, sometimes more successfully and sometimes less so, for years, until I finally admitted to myself what had happened. Memory is an incredible thing. Michaela Coel’s TV drama I May Destroy You is remarkably accurate on the subject.

This completed the trio: I’m not superstitious, but there was a circularity to it. Surely the worst was behind me. The following decade or so passed in relative calm. I found I could just about cope with the low hum of depression through exercise, wine, denial and sheer stubbornness; I displaced my anxiety on to smaller, more manageable things. As the political situation took a turn for the worse four years ago, coping became more difficult. While my personal life had never been better – engaged, in a job I love, with a strong circle of friends – everything outside that felt frantic, unmoored. Escapist entertainment became more valuable than the dark, challenging culture I had grown up consuming. I went on marches, I went door-knocking, I signed petitions. But mainly I tried to cocoon myself, safe in my bubble.

And then, a fourth thing arrived. On 20 March, my partner started to feel ill with Covid-19. We tried to isolate from each other in our one-bedroom flat, but it was no use: three days later, my skin turned cold and I started to shiver, feeling something new and alien move around my body. The following few weeks were frightening, though not particularly painful; we were young and healthy, we thought, we’d shake it off in no time. A number of our friends were ill too: it seemed as if everyone was going through the same thing.

Our friends got better. We got worse. The week of my partner’s birthday in April, he lay in bed with shooting pains in his chest and left arm, as I sat in the next room silently reading news stories about 30-year-olds in the US dying from Covid-related strokes. When we were meant to be getting married in Italy in June, we took the week off work but were barely able to leave the house. In August, a year after we climbed the Inca Trail in Peru to Machu Picchu, a walk around the local park brought on a week of excruciating chest pain. Despite having exercised every precaution (masks, gloves, hand sanitiser, staying home), we went from the fittest we had ever been to essentially bed-bound. We don’t know for sure, but the fact we were both affected in the same way suggests that the issue may have been down to a high viral load, which is why the virus can wreak such havoc on young bodies.

For my partner, who has never had a medical issue in his life, the challenge was finding himself suddenly ill. For me, the thought of having yet another thing wrong with my body felt unfair to the point of being unbearable. Of course, that’s a ridiculous thing to think: having a prior medical condition does not grant you immunity from future illness, and there is no one keeping score of the way injustice is meted out. But something about the disease feels personal. It has attacked the parts of my body that hadn’t been affected by the other conditions: my heart, my lungs, my muscles. My nervous system – the thing my career and livelihood depend on – feels damaged, somehow: there are headaches, brain fog, forgotten words.

The list of things I can’t do has got significantly longer. Oddly, it is exercise I miss the most. Used to being the last picked in PE, I have never liked team sports or gyms, but I’ve always been active. For the first three months of this year I was exercising five times a week or more: yoga, running, cycling, YouTube fitness videos. Now, anything more arduous than a short walk brings on flare-ups of debilitating pain. The one thing shown to improve physical and mental health is, for now at least, out of reach.

The terrifying thing about the virus, and its aftermath of chronic pain and post-viral fatigue, is that it is unknown and incurable. You can hear the hesitation in your doctor’s voice when you ask how long it’s likely to affect your body; you both know there is no answer. We have tried everything: paracetamol, rest, kale smoothies, breathing exercises, postural drainage, decongestants, turmeric, zinc, vitamins (B12, C, D, K), probiotics, weighted blankets, meditation apps, CBD oil, restorative yoga aimed at people recovering from lung cancer.

Nearly eight months on, the symptoms are slowly improving; doctors tentatively suggest it is likely we will fully recover. But one of the most difficult things to deal with has been the unpredictable and shifting nature of the symptoms, the fact that recovery is non-linear. One day it might feel like it has completely vanished. Then, one morning, you wake up with the same awful feeling in your lungs, as if they are being constricted and have collapsed in on themselves. Each recurrence feels worse than the last: it should have gone by now, you think; what if I never get better?

What do you do when your worst fear – or a fear you didn’t even know you had – comes true? Two months into the illness, I started speaking to a therapist, who is helping me find a way back to being kind to myself. For the first time in my life, I went on antidepressants: they didn’t solve everything, but they did mean I stopped crying several times a day, until I had to stop taking them because they were giving me heart palpitations. I played The Sims 4 and watched episode after episode of the reality show Selling Sunset (then felt annoyed at myself for wasting time). I tried to work on my dystopian sci-fi novel (but then again who hasn’t). I bought a lot of lipsticks.

Make yourself vulnerable and people will love you for it, goes the mantra, from Oprah to RuPaul. But what if you bare your deepest secrets and it makes people recoil? What if it’s too much, too depressing, and people look away? In an age where relatability is prized above all else, what do you do when your issues are so rare and so specific?

This is normally the point in the piece in which the subject talks about how the adversity they overcame was the best thing that ever happened to them. How it changed their worldview and made them the person they are today, that they wouldn’t change it for the world, that their disability is their superpower. For some people this is the case, but it isn’t particularly helpful to expect that everyone will have this same reaction. I waited and waited for the eureka moment when I would accept all the things that had happened to me, the realisation that they were what made me special.

But what if that moment never came? My experiences have shaped my personality, in some ways for the better, and in some ways for the worse. I would change it all in an instant if I could. What I can say is that I am proud of the things I have got through, any one of which could have been enough to derail the course of someone’s life. At the same time, I want to reassure others with similar conditions or experiences that you don’t need to berate yourself for feeling upset, which can in turn feel like an additional burden. If something causes you to suffer, those thoughts are valid too.

I never thought I’d write about any of this, let alone share it with anyone. I have felt no desire to expose my darkest secrets to internet trolls, or for people to skim-read over their morning coffee; I have no interest in being seen as a tragic figure, a victim. I have long been wary of personal essays, and the expectation that young writers (especially women) mine their trauma for clicks. With everything that’s going on in the world, listing the ways the universe has wronged me felt like a petty endeavour; as a cis, white, middle-class woman, I felt like my voice was not what was needed at the moment. With regard to my disability, I wanted to lead by example: not being pigeonholed, showing that you did not need to write about the things that made you different but about anything you liked – music, film, TV, art, comedy, cats.

But, at the same time, I have known for a long time that I needed to write this. As has become increasingly evident, representation matters, and who you are is important. Until now, I have been careful to ensure that there were no indications of my medical conditions online. Partly, this was self-preservation. Partly, it was down to vanity: the fantasy internet version of me was whole, perfect. Representation, however, only works if the difference is visible. Growing up, I never saw anyone like me in the media; disability is still one of the least represented groups across journalism, film and TV. I can’t speak on behalf of anyone else, especially considering how widely experiences vary across disabilities. But if reading this helps another confused, anxious little girl, it will have been worth it.

Popular culture has a lot to answer for. It’s not just the Bond villains with the inevitable facial scars and hooks for hands. It’s Werner Herzog, David Lynch, Ari Aster, Jonathan Glazer – directors I love – who turn to actors with disabilities to create a sense of the uncanny. I recently had to switch off a seemingly inoffensive mid-2010s romcom (which has been described as a “light, delightful movie” with a “hip indie twist”) after its fourth joke at the expense of disabled people in under an hour. As a child, I loved Disney’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame: I wanted to be Esmeralda, but I knew deep down that some people would always see me as Quasimodo (there is no archetype in which monster and beauty are combined; it is one or the other).

There is still a long way to go, but some progress has been made. Tyrion Lannister in Game of Thrones was one of the first characters I felt I could identify with: angry, flawed, lusty, likes a drink; turned to books to find self-worth. And in Naked Attraction of all places, I was pleased to see that a gorgeous man with a prosthetic leg and a tattoo of an elephant around his penis was one of the first to be picked for a date. Generally, we need to see all kinds of bodies in all kinds of programmes, not just relegating certain groups to separate shows that are by their very nature often patronising and infantilising.

I have been very fortunate in many ways, less so in others. My life is not one of misery: even in lockdown, I have filled my days with friends, love and moments of happiness. I don’t want to be forever associated with the things that cause me pain. My worst nightmare would be having my life experience reduced to a headline such as “My disability does not define me”. After all, I never chose any of this, so why should it shape the way people think about me? In a way, having had all these four things happen to me means I am not defined by any one of them. Just picking one as my distinguishing characteristic would feel arbitrary, reductive: they have all had an important impact on me in different ways.

I don’t want to be seen as impressive despite the setbacks I’ve experienced, I want to be seen as impressive, full stop. I don’t want to be described as “brave” or “inspirational” simply for existing; it’s not as if I have much choice. Just like everybody else, I would like to be thought of as smart, and attractive, and witty, with impeccable taste in music.

All over the world, political movements are being formed around the fear of difference. People who fall under protected characteristics – race, creed, sexuality, disability – are under a greater threat than ever. The question of not wanting to be judged for something out of your control is one that is intimate and personal to each of us, so it is vital that we stand together and support one another. Identity politics is too vast a topic to cover here, but I would just like to remind anyone who finds the concept problematic that none of us choose who we are. No one is asking for preferential treatment, just a recognition that certain things are more difficult for some people than others.

I have spent a long time thinking about identity: a funny, slippery thing. Mine has always been in flux: I was born in Italy to an English father and an Italian mother, and lived in Vienna for most of my teenage years. In Italy, I was seen as English, in Austria I was seen as Italian; over here my accent confuses people (it has been described as “home counties with the odd continental twang”). Given my diagnosis at 15, much of the discourse around trans rights and what constitutes a “real woman” is personally painful. Excluding certain individuals because of anatomical difference feels regressive, cruel, fearful of the other. Growing up, I could not join in with my friends’ conversations about periods, birth control, the morning-after pill – something that caused me a great deal of shame, suffering and confusion. But is that all being a woman is? If trans women are not women, according to these rules, I’m not either; though if I’m not a woman, what exactly am I?

One thing I have firmly believed for a long time is that, in the words of an album title by one of my favourite bands, Dirty Three: Whatever You Love, You Are. So this is what I love. The beach in Italy. Falling asleep cuddled up to my cats. Courgette flowers fried in tempura batter, cooked by my mum. A pint of Neck Oil at my favourite pub. Kanye West and Taylor Swift. Afrobeat-inflected jazz. Puns (the more puerile the better). Doing karaoke (badly). Singing along to Hamilton (whitely). Audrey Horne’s cherry trick in Twin Peaks. Films about men slowly losing their minds in jungles. Videos of animals on trampolines.

I don’t think there will ever come a point when I will be fully at peace with everything that has happened to me; at least, it won’t be any time soon. But, if nothing else, the process of writing this has felt beneficial: while I can’t change reality, I can reshape the narrative. I started watching The Sopranos in lockdown (finally – I know), and if we’ve learned anything about mental health – a key theme of the show – over these past decades, it’s that suffering in silence is neither healthy nor helpful. 

There’s another saying, “Mal comune, mezzo gaudio” (“A trouble shared is a trouble halved”). No one is going to have gone through the exact same experiences I have. But whatever challenges you face, I have found that there is value in reading about how others handle the obstacles life has put in their way; no one, after all, gets through life unscathed. At a moment when the world is filled with so much suffering, the best we can hope for is to scramble to find some kind of meaning in it.

Who knows: perhaps one day I’ll look back on this time and conclude that Covid-19 marked an important turning point in my life. For now, though, I just need to get through it, three-good-things-a-day at a time.

Kathryn Bromwich is a commissioning editor on the Guardian





No.20 article:
Aung San Suu Kyi expected to keep power in Myanmar election

‘Mother Suu’ remains popular despite coronavirus, conflict in Rakhine state and genocide charges

Voters across Myanmar have gone to the polls for an election that is expected to return to power the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, who remains hugely popular at home despite allegations of a genocide that have destroyed her reputation abroad.

Queues of people waited in line, in some cases for hours, to cast their ballots on Sunday in the country’s second general election since the end of full military rule. Most were wearing masks as a precaution against the coronavirus. The country has confirmed more than 60,000 infections, the majority of which were reported since mid-August.

Aung San Suu Kyi is expected to hold on to power, even as the country struggles with the coronavirus pandemic, a spiralling conflict in Rakhine state and faces genocide charges at the UN’s top court.

Five years since her party, the National League for Democracy (NLD), won a landslide victory, Aung San Suu Kyi retains strong support among the Bamar majority, who revere her as a protector of democracy. While the brutal crackdown on Rohingya Muslims appalled many abroad, there is little sympathy for their plight domestically, and it has not been a factor in election campaigns.

In a Facebook video posted on Thursday, Aung San Suu Kyi urged people to go out and cast their ballot. “Every single voter is writing their own history, this election’s history and our country’s history,” she said.

About 38 million people were eligible to go to the polls, including 5 million first-time voters.

“I’m not at all afraid of being infected with Covid-19,” Khine Zar Chi, 27, told Agence France-Presse, as she voted for the first time in downtown Yangon. “I don’t care if I die for Mother Suu.”

Others, however, accuse Aung San Suu Kyi of failing to deliver on the democratic reforms promised in 2015, or the pledge to bring peace and reconciliation.

Voting was cancelled in several areas dominated by ethnic minorities, ostensibly due to security concerns over fighting between the army and armed groups that are calling for greater autonomy. It’s feared the decision, which has left an estimated 1.5 million people disenfranchised, will entrench resentment, and fuel conflict.

Analysts point out that voting has been stopped even in areas where fighting is limited.

Rohingya Muslims, who have long been denied citizenship, are still without voting rights. Most are stuck in squalid camps in Bangladesh, where they fled an army crackdown in 2017. Hundreds of thousands remain confined to camps and villages inside Myanmar’s Rakhine state, where Human Rights Watch has reported abuses that it says amount to the crimes against humanity of apartheid and persecution.

On Friday, the UN secretary general, António Guterres, raised concern over the “legal limbo” facing Rohingya in Myanmar, and their inability to vote. “It is important that everyone have a voice and be able to participate in these elections in a very … inclusive way,” UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said.

The government-appointed election commission has been criticised not only over voter exclusion, but also for a lack of transparency, discrimination against Muslim candidates and logistical problems.

Last week, in a rare interview, the commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing, accused the civilian government of “unacceptable mistakes” in the run-up to the election and described the army as the “guardian” of the nation. He has since said he will accept the results of the vote.

A quarter of parliamentary seats are reserved for the military, which has ruled in an uneasy alliance with the NLD over the past five years. It remains extremely powerful and has blocked proposals to change the constitution and therefore reduce its influence.

About 90 parties are competing with the NLD, though campaigning was hampered in some areas due to the coronavirus pandemic. It’s believed this will mostly disadvantage smaller, ethnic-based parties, which lack access to state media.

It was feared the pandemic could also deter people from going to polling stations, but on Sunday morning analysts reported a strong turnout.

Lines of people have waited for two hours to vote in downtown Yangon, said Khin Zaw Win, the director of Tampadipa Institute in Yangon. “The Myanmar electorate doesn’t need to be prodded,” he said, adding that there has, historically, long been a recognition of the importance of elections. “Add to that the half-century of democracy denial under the military, and people know voting is the best chance they have,” he said.

But he added that politicians have persistently let the public down. “There have been waves of reforms but not enough, and not in critical sectors like land tenure, citizenship and religious freedoms. And corruption is always there, hanging like a pall.”





No.21 article:
Vatican enlists bots to protect library from onslaught of hackers

Apostolic Library, facing 100 threats a month, wants to ensure readers can trust digitised records of its historical treasures

Ancient intellects are now being guarded by artificial intelligence following moves to protect one of the most extraordinary collections of historical manuscripts and documents in the world from cyber-attacks.

The Vatican Apostolic Library, which holds 80,000 documents of immense importance and immeasurable value, including the oldest surviving copy of the Bible and drawings and writings from Michelangelo and Galileo, has partnered with a cyber-security firm to defend its ambitious digitisation project against criminals.

The library has faced an average of 100 threats a month since it started digitising its collection of historical treasures in 2012, according to Manlio Miceli, its chief information officer.

“We cannot ignore that our digital infrastructure is of interest to hackers. A successful attack could see the collection stolen, manipulated or deleted altogether,” Miceli told the Observer.

Cyber attacks were increasing, not slowing down, he added. “Hackers will always try to get into organisations to steal information, to make money or to wreak havoc.”

The library, founded in 1451 by Pope Nicholas V, is one of the world’s most important research institutions, containing one of the finest collections of manuscripts, books, images, coins and medals in the world. The digitisation of 41 million pages is intended to “preserve the content of historical treasures without causing damage to the fragile originals”, said Miceli.

But he added: “This project is about a lot more than just physical preservation. Swaths of history, previously explored only by white-gloved historians, are now made available to anyone with a internet connection. This is a huge step for educational equality.”

So far, about 25% of the library’s documents have been digitised. The project started with “unique, most famous and fragile pieces”, said Miceli. They include one of the world’s oldest manuscripts, an illustrated fragment of Virgil’s Aeneid that dates back 1,600 years. The collection also contains Sandro Botticelli’s 1450 illustration of the Divine Comedy; poems, technical notes and sketches by Michelangelo; ancient manuscripts of the Inca people; and historical treaties and letters.

But, said Miceli, digitisation means “we have to protect our online collection so that readers can trust the records are accurate, unaltered history”. He added: “While physical damage is often clear and immediate, an attack of this kind wouldn’t have the same physical visibility, and so has the potential to cause enduring and potentially irreparable harm, not only to the archive but to the world’s historical memory. In the era of fake news, these collections play an important role in the fight against misinformation and so defending them against ‘trust attacks’ is critical.

“Less Hollywood, but still concerning, is a ransomware attack on the library – a well-known attack that infiltrates companies unseen and then locks down files incredibly quickly until you pay a hefty sum. Ransomware today moves at machine-speed, outstripping humans’ ability to spot and stop the attack before it escalates.

“These attacks have the potential to impact the Vatican library’s reputation – one it has maintained for hundreds of years – and have significant financial ramifications that could impact our ability to digitise the remaining manuscripts.”

The library has partnered with Darktrace, a company founded by Cambridge University mathematicians, which claims to be the first to develop an AI system for cybersecurity. Miceli said: “You cannot throw people at this problem – you need to augment human beings with technology that understands the shades of grey within very complex systems and fights back at machine speed.”

AI “never sleeps, doesn’t take breaks and can spot and investigate more threats than any human team could. It makes decisions in seconds about what is strange but benign and strange but threatening.” But, he added, there was no 100% guarantee against attack. “The only way to make an organisation completely secure is to cut it off from the internet. Our mission is to bring the Vatican Library into the 21st century – so we won’t be doing that any time soon.”

Dave Palmer, director of technology at Darktrace, said cyber-attackers were constantly looking for ways “to make a quick buck or to cause embarrassment on the global stage”.

He added: “Many organisations like the Vatican library have accepted this reality. With AI, they are discovering the subtle, unusual activity that precedes a full-blown attack, and, crucially, trusting AI to fight back on humans’ behalf before it’s too late.”





No.22 article:
Salud! Barcelona’s tiny local bodegas saved for posterity

• Coronavirus – latest updates• See all our coronavirus coverage

Protection move widely welcomed, but many traditional bars are struggling to pay their rents, especially under lockdown

• Coronavirus – latest updates• See all our coronavirus coverage

Barcelona council has come to the rescue of some of the city’s most emblematic and best-loved bars by adding them to the list of protected sites and buildings. However, thanks to Covid-19 restrictions, you won’t be able to get a drink in any of them for at least the next few weeks.

The city has added 11 bodegas to the list of 220 shops that are considered part of the city’s cultural heritage. The move has been widely welcomed, though it comes too late to save many small businesses, from toy and book shops to grocery and furniture stores, that were part of the fabric and essence of the city but were forced out by soaring rents. In most cases they have been replaced by chain stores.

Bodegas are distinct from other bars in that, as well as serving food and drink, most also sell house wine, vermouth, sherry and other beverages from the barrel. Many began life as a retail outlet for wine that the owners produced themselves.

Several are tiny with barely room for a dozen people to stand at the bar or small tables. The dark wood of the barrels and the tiled floors are part of the rough-and-ready charm of a place that feels like it’s been there for ever.

Brothers David and Carlos Montero are the third generation running Bodega Quimet in Gràcia, a Barcelona neighbourhood that is as traditional as it is trendy. The bodega, one of the 11 listed, has been in business since 1954, and they took it over from the Quimet family 10 years ago.

“I think it’s great that the city council is giving us this recognition because we’re part of the fabric of the barrio,” David Montero told the Observer. “If not, it will end up as just another Starbucks. It means that people can come here and eat traditional food such as anchovies, boquerones en vinagre or a plate of jamón.

“We’ve never tried to be fashionable or to attract tourists. We’ve never wanted to lose the essence of being a bodega in and for the barrio.”

Under Covid-19 restrictions, Quimet can only serve takeaways but Montero says they try to serve the same food as always. “If there’s a special pepper that goes with an octopus dish, we put the pepper in an envelope so the customer can enjoy a Quimet moment at home,” he said.

Most of the bodegas have been listed as “having had an important social influence on their environment and retain aspects of historic interest and originality linked to the uses and customs of the barrio”, and, as such, deserve to be reserved as part of the collective memory.

The pandemic has had a catastrophic impact on the hospitality business, and the listed bars are only protected as physical entities, not as going concerns. Montero welcomes the fact that owners have access to funds to maintain the fabric of the bodega but says what is needed more urgently is help with paying the rent.

He accepts that closing bars and restaurants may be necessary to stem the spread of the virus but resents the way it has been done, with shutdowns being announced from one day to the next, leaving owners no time to prepare, and landing them with produce they can’t sell.

“We had 10 tables, we agreed to reduce it to five, but they gave us three and a half. Then they say people can’t drink at the bar, and now it’s just takeaways. It all feels very improvised,” he said.





No.23 article:
After Trump’s election loss, no plan visible for next two months as cold weather and holidays approach

A lame-duck presidency and political gridlock after a bitterly fought election are set to worsen the US’s coronavirus crisis just as the pandemic enters its deadliest phase, according to health experts.

With two months to go before a presidential handover from Donald Trump to Joe Biden, the federal government’s strategy for containing the virus has experts worried.

Outside of embracing conspiracy theories, Trump administration officials appear to have pinned their hopes on improved testing and eventual vaccine approval.

“The strategy, if you can summarize in one word, is hope,” said Dr Carlos del Rio, executive associate dean of the Emory School of Medicine and Grady Health System in Georgia. “And hope is not a strategy.”

And as Covid-19 cases surge, the economic recovery falters and coronavirus government aid runs out, the lack of a coordinated response to the pandemic during the interregnum will have serious consequences, according to experts.

“We are heading into the very worst of the pandemic right now,” said Dr Megan Ranney, an emergency room doctor at Brown University who has lobbied to protect healthcare workers during the pandemic. “The degree of spread of this infection and its toll on our country is going to be, to a large extent, determined by what happens in the next two months.”

The swell of autumn Covid-19 cases is already proving to be the most intense period for new infections of the entire pandemic. By various counts, the US broke a world record for new cases – 100,000 in a day – this week. Those new infections will portend new hospitalizations, and eventually deaths. Already, more than 230,000 Americans have died from Covid-19.

“If we don’t do anything to stop it, we are in the trajectory going straight up,” said Del Rio.

Del Rio predicted the United States could see 200,000 cases a day by Thanksgiving, if Americans do not adopt social distancing and universal masking immediately.

There are other grim signs. The nursing home industry, which cares for America’s most medically fragile residents, has warned that Covid-19 cases among the elderly and infirm are growing because of intense spread in surrounding communities.

“It is incredibly frustrating,” said Mark Parkinson, president and CEO of the American Health Care Association, an industry group for private nursing homes. “If everybody would wear a mask and social distance to reduce the level of Covid in the community, we know we would dramatically reduce these rates in long-term care facilities.”

Nursing homes house less than 1% of the population, but represent more than 40% of deaths.

Hospital administrators are scaling back non-urgent, but medically necessary, surgeries which serve as one of their largest sources of profit. State governments in the upper midwest are setting up field hospitals, but staffing will be difficult with increased spread and worker burnout.

At the same time, the appetite for further Covid-19 restrictions is almost nil, as weary Americans head into a fall holiday season traditionally marked by celebrations indoors with family and friends.

“Thanksgiving is basically set up to be a chain reaction of super-spreader events across our country. And if this is happening across the country, we’re not going to have [traveling health workers] or extra staffers,” said Ranney, even as “everyone is needed in their own hospitals or their own communities”.

Nationwide hotspots could also bring shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE). While supply chains are more robust than they were in April and March, resources are still limited because hospitals and states now stockpile PPE.

Dr Shikhah Gupta, executive director of Get Us PPE, the physician-founded non-profit aimed at providing PPE to workers, said the group was “preparing for the worst”.

“One of the biggest trends we’re seeing is people are really ready to pretend the [pandemic] is over,” said Gupta.

At the same time, the economic recovery appears to be faltering as businesses run out of pandemic relief aid and the virus spreads widely. Economist Chris Rupkey told Reuters the slowing recovery appeared to show, “a second wave of layoffs is hitting the economy, perhaps due to the rising count of virus cases”. At the same time, some businesses may have never been able to fully reopen “and [are] facing bankruptcy”.

“The goal has to be control of the virus so the economy can succeed,” said Del Rio. “It’s not just about health, it’s about the economy and ensuring people have jobs.”

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said he hoped to accelerate the timetable for a new coronavirus stimulus package, and aimed to pass the bill before Biden’s inauguration. He called it “job one” when Congress returns.

But it remains unclear how Trump will react to new proposals while he is still in power. No experts the Guardian spoke with expect the kind of broad intervention needed to change the course of the pandemic. Instead, any response will need to come from Americans themselves.

“When I look at how our country is going to make it through, between now and inauguration day,” said Ranney, “it’s really going to depend on that continued willingness of Americans to step up.”





No.24 article:
No 10 will lose support of the party and the country if restrictions are extended, say senior MPs

Senior Tory MPs have warned Boris Johnson that there would be mass revolts in the party and the country against any attempt to extend the national lockdown beyond 2 December as anger grows in Conservative ranks over government handling of the pandemic.

Evidence of growing Tory disquiet has risen since it emerged that data produced by No 10 last weekend to back the case for another lockdown exaggerated the potential number of deaths from Covid-19. Last week, the Office for National Statistics also suggested the rate of increases in cases had already started to slow – which many Tory MPs interpreted as meaning the previous regional three-tier approach was beginning to work.

Last Wednesday, the government won a Commons vote on imposing lockdown with a majority of 477 after opposition parties including Labour backed the plan. However, 34 Tory MPs voted against the measures while several others, including former leader Theresa May, abstained.

The rebellion was fuelled in part by comments from Michael Gove, who refused to rule out a further extension beyond 2 December. In the Commons, May said a rolling series of lockdowns would cause “irreparable damage” to the economy and have a “significant impact on lives”. She and others argued that the three-tier system had not been given adequate time to work.

Last night, the chair of the influential 1922 Committee of Tory MPs, Sir Graham Brady – who voted against – told the Observer he believed there would be many more rebels if any attempt were made to extend the restrictions. “Some of us voted against lockdown but my sense is that far more would make a stand if a third lockdown were to be contemplated.”

Brady said the way government had produced exaggerated figures at last Saturday’s briefing had caused huge disquiet. A slide used to justify the lockdown projected daily deaths reaching 1,500 by December – more than at the peak of the first wave. But government officials later acknowledged it should have shown an upper limit of 1,000 daily deaths – in line with the first-wave peak.

Brady added: “It is of serious concern that the data produced to justify this lockdown has begun to unravel so quickly. These are massive restrictions on the liberty and rights of constituents. It is essential parliament should have accurate and sufficient data before decisions are taken.”

Johnson has made it clear the new regulations will automatically lapse on 2 December but has stopped short of categorically ruling out a renewal or a fresh future lockdown if the R rate is not brought down to below 1.Labour leader Kier Starmer has made clear that ending the lockdown before the R had fallen to below 1 would be irresponsible.

Today the latest Opinium poll for the Observer shows a majority of people in England (64%) support the new lockdown, with a similar proportion (62%) believing it was introduced too late. Only 20% oppose it.

The poll suggests many people are sceptical about the current end date, with 58% believing it will be extended beyond 2 December. Only a fifth (19%) think the lockdown will end when planned. When asked about compliance, just under a fifth (18%) say they would break the rules if the lockdown is still in place on Christmas Day.

A former Tory cabinet minister now on the backbenches said most Conservative MPs who backed the lockdown did so with serious reservations and fears about the effects it would have on the economy, jobs and people’s mental health. The former minister said there would be “a massive revolt” that would shake Johnson’s authority if a new lockdown was proposed with infections levels anywhere near current levels.

Charles Walker, vice-chair of the 1922 committee, said the public had had enough of lockdowns and were making their own decisions on how to deal with the risks. He said: “People have rationalised Covid and are increasingly accepting of living alongside the virus. In March, the public had fled city centres, restaurants and shops two weeks before lockdown. Hours before the second lockdown started, they were laying siege to these very same facilities. There will not be a third lockdown beyond 2 December as the public will not accept it and the government will not have the moral or constitutional authority to impose it.”





No.25 article:
UK&#x27;s coronavirus vaccine taskforce chief faces questions over biotech fund

Report claims Kate Bingham’s venture capital firm has invested in companies developing Covid-19 antibody cocktails

The head of the government’s vaccine taskforce faces fresh questions after it emerged she hailed the launch of a biotechnology investment fund in her capacity as managing director of a venture capital firm despite having “stepped away” from the role.

Kate Bingham, a venture capitalist married to the Conservative minister Jesse Norman, came under scrutiny this week when Labour asked the cabinet secretary to “undertake an urgent and swift investigation” after it was claimed she showed US financiers government documents at a $200-a-head conference.

She has garnered further attention after the Times reported that, although Bingham voluntarily declared that SV Health Investors “does not invest in companies related to work on the Covid-19 vaccine”, it has shareholdings in companies named Alchemab and Adimab, which have been involved in the race to develop antibody cocktails.

Separately, in a press release from July – weeks after Bingham was appointed to the role by Boris Johnson in May – she said SV Health Investors was delighted that its first biotechnology-focused fund had attracted significant support.

“With many organisations working in unison to achieve the UK’s mission of maintaining a leading position in precision medicine, this felt like the perfect time to launch the IMF,” she said.

“As with our other funds, the IMF team will work closely with our portfolio companies to maximise the fund’s potential to transform healthcare and contribute to the UK’s mission.”

The shadow health minister, Justin Madders, told the Guardian there was an “extremely concerning pattern of what looks like a cavalier attitude towards the normal standards of probity” and called for greater scrutiny.

“We need a complete examination of who is involved here to ensure decisions are being made in the best interests of the UK taxpayer,” he said.

“We also need clarity about what is meant by Bingham ‘stepping away’ from her role at SV Health Investors and what safeguards will be in place when she steps down from her role in the taskforce at the end of the year.”

A spokesperson for the Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Department (BEIS) said: “Kate Bingham resigned from Alchemab and stepped away from her role at SV Health Investors before she took up her role on the vaccines taskforce. She therefore no longer has knowledge of or influence on the operations of Alchemab or Adimab.” The spokesperson also said neither Alchemab nor Adimab had any interests in the vaccine tender.

Bingham is not bound by transparency rules or the parliamentary code of conduct on declaring interests since she is an external appointee, but she reports directly to the prime minister and there have been longstanding calls from many commentators for such appointees to be subject to parliamentary standards.

Of her appearance at the conference, the BEIS added: “The fact of her appearance and the content of her presentation received approval from officials at BEIS in line with the process governing such engagements. Bingham focused on publicly available information and said little that expert delegates at the conference could not deduce themselves.”

On its website, SV confirms Bingham’s role as vaccine chief is a six-month posting and that she remains its managing partner.

The news comes after it emerged that the UK’s chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, has a £600,000 shareholding in GlaxoSmithKline, the pharmaceutical giant contracted to develop a Covid-19 vaccine for the government.

He was criticised for not prominently disclosing the interest, but the government said Vallance had no input into contractual and commercial decisions on vaccine procurement and that his shareholding had been declared on the register of interests on the government’s website since he took up the position of chief scientist.

SV did not respond to requests for comment.

• This article was amended on 8 November 2020 to clarify the criticism of Patrick Vallance with respect to his shares in GSK, and to include the statement that his shareholding was declared on the register of interests.





No.26 article:
Abiy Ahmed made his name as a reformer – but was there always an authoritarian waiting to come out?

The beginning of the week saw Abiy Ahmed, the prime minister of Ethiopia, in one role: a forward-looking statesman, with a vision of peace and prosperity, and a tailored suit. The 44-year-old leader was at Addis Ababa’s recently modernised airport to welcome General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan, effective leader of neighbouring Sudan for a two-day visit including trade discussions and tours of the Ethiopian capital’s skyscrapers, a seedling nursery and an industrial park.

The second half of the week saw Abiy in a different mode: on national television in a dark bomber jacket to make the startling announcement he had ordered troops to respond to an alleged deadly attack on a government military base by local forces in the country’s Tigray province.

A day later, senior Ethiopian generals spoke of being “at war” amid reports of artillery duels, while officials in Tigray claimed that jets had bombed parts of its capital.

The contrast between “besuited Abiy” and “bomber jacket Abiy” was sharp, as was that between Abiy’s early days in power back in 2018 – when observers compared the young reforming leader to Nelson Mandela, Justin Trudeau, Barack Obama and Mikhail Gorbachev – and the darker more troubled time now.

For some, the real Abiy is only now being seen. “You don’t come up through the ranks of military intelligence and the ruling coalition in Ethiopia and be Mr Nice Guy. It just doesn’t happen,” said Martin Plaut, a regional expert at London University.

“The narrative of Abiy the reformer is overrated,” said Tsedale Lemma, editor in chief of the independent Addis Standard news magazine in the Ethiopian capital. “I am afraid full-fledged authoritarianism is where he is going next.”

Born in western Ethiopia, Abiy joined the resistance against the brutal regime of Mengistu Haile Mariam as a teenager before enlisting in the armed forces. In 1998 he was a radio operator attached to an Ethiopian unit fighting Eritrean forces. When he briefly left his foxhole to find better antenna reception, his entire unit was wiped out in an artillery attack.

Abiy went on to rise through the ranks of military intelligence, eventually swapping the army for academe, earning a doctorate in peace and security studies. After a stint running Ethiopia’s cyberintelligence service, he entered politics and was rapidly promoted within the coalition that had ruled the country since Mengistu was deposed in 1991.

Abiy’s surprise appointment as prime minister in 2018 came after months of anti-government protests. Immediately, his informal style, charisma and energy impressed after decades of opaque and repressive rule. In quick succession, Abiy reshuffled his cabinet, fired a series of controversial and hitherto untouchable civil servants, reached out to hostile neighbours and rivals, lifted media bans, freed thousands of political prisoners, ordered the partial privatisation of massive state-owned companies and ended a state of emergency.

He has also tried to appeal to women, making an unprecedented mention of his wife and mother in his acceptance speech. Surprised visitors spoke of the shelves of books on religion, philosophy and science that filled Abiy’s office – and its open door. One personal acquaintance described the new prime minister as “always looking ahead for the future … with a bit of headstrong attitude towards people who don’t deliver”.

There were also hopes of an end, or at least a pause, to the ethnic strife rending the second most populous country on the continent. It was widely hoped Abiy’s mixed Christian and Muslim background, and fluency in three of the country’s main languages would allow him to bridge communal and sectarian divides.

He was also the first leader from Ethiopia’s largest ethnic community, the Oromo, who have complained for decades of economic, cultural and political marginalisation, and were behind much of the growing unrest that led to Abiy’s appointment.

No one doubted the challenge. Ethiopia faced a shortage of foreign currency, growing inequality, a lack of jobs for a huge number of graduates – at least 70% of the population is under 30 – environmental damage, and deep hunger for change. There were also many within the governing elite who opposed Abiy’s project. Two people died when, in June 2018, a grenade was thrown at a rally to showcase popular support for the reforms in Addis Ababa’s vast Meskel Square.

After the attack, Abiy had advice for his enemies. “Love always wins. Killing others is a defeat. To those who tried to divide us, I want to tell you that you have not succeeded.”

And he appeared ready to turn such sentiments into reality, concluding a historic peace agreement with Eritrea, thus ending one of Africa’s longest-running conflicts and winning the 2019 Nobel peace prize. In Oslo, he called on “my fellow Ethiopians to join hands and help build a country that offers equal justice, equal rights and equal opportunities for all its citizens.” 

But the Nobel may have been a high point. Since then, problems have multiplied, all exacerbated by the pandemic. His reforms have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface, and led to instability, analysts say, with deadly violence earlier this year leading to a wave of repression. Days after the launch last autumn of Abiy’s book outling his national unity philosophy, protesters burned copies in the streets. “Abiy has lost most of his support base in Oromia; he has left the political order in the south deeply disoriented .... and he is now on [the] verge of the unknown with the people of Tigray,” said Lemma.

Tigrayan leaders said they were unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems. The Tigrayan People’s Liberation Front refused to join the party created by Abiy to fuse the elements of the old ruling coalition into a single political organisation.

Then, elections due in August were postponed due to Covid. When parliamentarians voted to extend officials’ mandates anyway, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with their own polls. Now each side sees the other as illegitimate, and federal judges have ruled that Abiy’s government should cut off contact with – and funding to – Tigray.

But the northern province is home to six million people – 5% of Ethiopia’s 109 million people – and more influential than many other, larger regions. It also has a large paramilitary force and a well-drilled local militia, while a large portion of federal military personnel and much of its equipment is also based there, a legacy of war with Eritrea.

Hostilities now seem to have been opened between Ethiopia’s government and Tigray’s. “Given the strength of Tigray’s security forces, [any] conflict could well be protracted,” the International Crisis Group said in a recent report.

There are widespread fears over the destabilising impact of the incipient conflict. UN secretary general António Guterres called on Friday for “an immediate de-escalation of tensions and a peaceful resolution to the dispute”. “The stability of Ethiopia is important for the entire Horn of Africa region,” Guterres said.

Ahmed Soliman, at Chatham House in London, said the consequences of a full-blown conflict would be “unspeakable” for Ethiopia and east Africa.

“Ethiopia has been experiencing a difficult transition over recent years but remains the diplomatic cornerstone of the region,” he said.

Experts point out it would have been impossible for Abiy to move troops against Tigray if Ethiopia was still at war with Eritrea. Now, Isaias Afwerki, the authoritarian leader of Eritrea, is friendly with Abiy and has no affection for Tigrayan leaders. There are unconfirmed reports of the mobilisation of Eritrea’s weak military.

The fierce rhetoric from both sides has dampened any hope for a swift end to the standoff.

Neither side appear ready to compromise. “If I say ‘I’m going to crush you’, then is there really scope for any negotiation?”, a western diplomat in Addis Ababa said.





No.27 article:
Inseparable for 44 years – the couple banned from touching because of Covid

Trish Walker’s husband Chris is in a care home, and she has been allowed to speak to him for only an hour a day

They met on a blind date and married nine months later. For the next 44 years, Chris and Trish Walker were inseparable. Until the pandemic.

For the past eight months, Trish has not been allowed to touch her husband and has only been able to speak to him for just over an hour, even though he has already had – and recovered from – Covid-19.

The restrictions were imposed by the 74-year-old’s care home in London, where he was placed after a spell in hospital. It was supposed to be a temporary measure but it feels permanent to his wife.

“The carpet has been pulled out from underneath you and you’re still falling, because everything that was part of our life is still there at home. Except he isn’t,” she said.

“I can’t let myself unravel,” she added. “It’s as if you’re a widow, but you’re not. Divorced, but you’re not. You’re between worlds. You become nothing. You’re not his wife any more in any meaningful sense – but you are, and you want to be.”

Trish had just begun teaching French in Belfast in 1975 when she met Chris, who was a journalist working in Northern Ireland. “We met on a blind date at the Europa hotel,” she said. “He was great fun, very droll. Lots of anecdotes, interesting stories.”

They married in a small ceremony in Oxford and celebrated at the Cherwell Boathouse. When Chris was posted to Jerusalem, Moscow, then Beirut to serve as a foreign correspondent for newspapers and broadcasters, Trish went with him, working as a French teacher in international schools.

In May 2017, Chris was admitted to the Maudsley Hospital when he started to lose cognitive function and mobility. Doctors spent two years trying to find a diagnosis. Shortly before the pandemic hit, it had been decided Chris should return home.

During his hospital stay, Trish was a regular visitor, until her last visit on 18 March. “I would sit with him and read him funny articles from the Spectator,” she said. “We would talk.”

He fell ill on 23 March and tested positive for Covid-19, but only suffered a high temperature for a few days.

They have tried to talk over the phone, but rigidity in Chris’s fingers means it is almost impossible for him to hold a handset.

“Gradually, you heard on the news that care homes were doing their best to facilitate visitors but this one wouldn’t,” Trish said.

“They kept saying no. I phoned the Care Quality Commission [which regulates care homes] and they said no, it’s Public Health England, they make the rules.”

She was eventually allowed three short visits in the summer but since September the home has been shut to visitors, despite guidance from health secretary Matt Hancock allowing care homes to open.

“It is a prison sentence and there seems to be no redress,” Trish said.





No.28 article:
The animals were carrying a new strain of the virus, possibly vaccine-resistant, and infected several hundred people

Veterinary workers have begun the gruesome business of gassing and then burning 17 million mink in Danish farms in a bid to halt further spread of a Covid-19 mutation from the animals to humans.

The decision to cull the country’s mink population was made after several hundred people became infected with a new strain of Covid-19 that had infected the animals. Researchers have warned this strain could be more resistant to vaccines.

Yesterday, Britain banned arrivals from Denmark in an effort to contain the new strain amid fears that another jump by the virus from animals to humans could make Covid-19 even more deadly. Scientists have urged caution about the dangers. “I don’t think we should come to any conclusions about whether this particular mutation is going to impact vaccine efficacy,” said Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO’s chief scientist. “We don’t have any evidence at the moment that it would.”

James Wood, professor of veterinary medicine at Cambridge University, agreed: “If the reports of nearly 800 people being infected with the mutated strain are confirmed, it is highly likely this scale of transmission will have been driven by person-to-person transmission rather than from direct mink-to-person transmission. That means culling mink may not in itself cause the strain to disappear, but it may stop further mutant strains from developing in that species.”

Five other nations – Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the US – have also reported Covid infections in mink though it is not clear if these have been caused by mutated strains of the virus. Denmark is the world’s biggest producer of mink, and the cull will effectively end that industry, a development that has delighted animal welfare groups.

It is also a reasonable precaution, say scientists. “The danger is that the mutated virus could spread back into humans and evade any vaccine response designed to the original, non-mutated version of the spike protein,” said Ian Jones, professor of virology at Reading University. “Of course, the Mink version may not transmit well to man so it’s a theoretical risk but Denmark is clearly taking a precautionary stance so that this possibility is avoided or made much less likely.”

Other scientists dismissed the dangers. “I don’t believe that a strain which gets adapted to mink poses a higher risk to humans,” Francois Balloux, director of University College London’s Genetics Institute, told the health website Stat. “We can never rule out anything, but in principle it shouldn’t. It should definitely not increase transmission. I don’t see any good reason why it should make the virus more severe.”





No.29 article:
Experts warn ensuring people isolate properly if they test positive is crucial to preventing spread of Covid in time for festivities

The next couple of weeks will be crucial in determining what kind of Christmas we have this year: a lonely, joyless affair in front of our TVs or, at best, a modest celebration, sharing the odd Christmas cracker with one or two close relatives.

The arithmetic that will determine the outcome is straightforward, say scientists. If we are to have any prospect of getting out of national lockdown in four weeks, then case numbers of Covid-19 will have to fall – significantly. And it will not be obvious that we are succeeding in reaching that goal until we are in the third or fourth week of our 28-day seclusion.

However, if numbers do go down fairly sharply by 2 December, and if the R value drops well below 1, then we can hope for some reprieve from restriction – albeit one still limited by the tier system. London could contemplate opening up to tier 2 and possibly get some access to pubs and restaurants, for example.

“We’re not talking about coming out of lockdown and going straight into a great big Christmas party,” said virologist Professor Nicola Stonehouse, of Leeds University. “We’re talking about going back into the tier system. I live in Leeds, and I would love to think that we’ll be in tier 2 coming out of this. We will have to wait and see, however.”

Achieving such goals will require fairly dramatic infection reductions and people accepting continued limitations on their personal freedom. That is the contract we have made with the government.

But it is a two-way deal, scientists insist. For their part, ministers must grapple effectively with the pandemic and fulfil their side of the unstated deal they have made with the public – for the actions they take over the coming month will be every bit as important as those taken by their citizens.

For a start, the government must use the next four weeks to make its test-and-trace system work properly. It is simply inadequate at present. Getting it to work would give the nation a chance of taking some control of the pandemic when lockdown stops.

But what scientists also stress is that testing and tracing are not enough. Ensuring people who test positive can isolate is the really crucial business, they insist. And that aspect of the system has simply not been addressed.

“Sending infected individuals back to isolate at homes they might share with several generations of families, including elderly relatives is not the way to do this,” said Mark Woolhouse, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at Edinburgh University. “We need to think about putting infected people in hostels or similar accommodation. They will also need financial support.”

It was crucial, he added, that the government acted decisively on this issue. “In exchange for us giving up our freedoms, the government actually has to do something to make sure we don’t have to do this again.”

And that prospect was a real worry, he added. Modelling carried out at Edinburgh University last March suggested one particularly likely scenario. It forecast that the country would have to go through a three-month lockdown, which would be followed by a drop in case numbers in summer, before a second wave of the disease arrived in the autumn.

“The worrying thing about that scenario is that it also forecast that there would be a third wave early next year,” said Woolhouse. “Now I am not predicting a third wave, but I most certainly cannot rule it out. And if there is a third wave in another few months followed by another lockdown, I would be very concerned about people’s compliance with it on a third occasion. In essence, this is the government’s last chance to get its act together.”





No.30 article:
Go figure: how Britain became a nation of armchair statisticians

Sceptics are poring over official figures in the Covid-19 crisis, but not all data deserves to be treated with suspicion

The British distrust of numbers goes back centuries. The Tudor authorities burned maths manuscripts in Oxford for being magical and popish. Dr John Dee, later court astrologer to Elizabeth I, was arrested in 1555 on charges of “calculating”. Florence Nightingale was thought to be a nuisance by generals for counting the soldiers who died in Crimean hospitals, to discover how better to treat them.

Now, we are a nation of armchair statisticians, obsessing over seven-day rolling averages and data transparency, and challenging bad stats whenever they appear.

The Office for Statistics Regulation (OSR) reports that complaints and queries about how government uses official figures rose to four times their previous levels in the first three months of the pandemic.

Since April, 90% of OSR cases have been about issues such as the reliability of Covid-19 testing data, and the lack of public access to data that politicians deploy.

A case in point is last week’s row about a projection of 4,000 deaths a day in December, if the virus continues unchecked.

After Sir Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientific adviser, presented several scenarios at the press conference announcing the second lockdown, the 4,000 deaths projection was seized on by critics. Leading the charge, Theresa May said in parliament that the figures were “chosen to support the policy”. Naturally, the former prime minister produced her own calculations to support her case.

It’s not just the OSR. More or Less, Radio 4’s weekly look behind the stats, has been heard a lot more than less. The show, presented by Tim Harford, was promoted from its comfortable yet obscure Wednesday afternoon berth to a primetime 9am slot, just before Covid-19 hit Britain.

“We had this extraordinary run over the summer, where the BBC kept extending the series – I think it was extended four times,” Harford said. His new book, How to Make the World Add Up, sold out in 36 hours when it was published in September. “So that’s another data point.”

At this point, the armchair statisticians of Britain may have noticed something missing. A story quoting statistics showing a rise in interest in statistics has not mentioned how many items of casework the OSR has dealt with. The answer: 110 from April to June 2020, compared with 109 over the previous 12 months. A huge rise – but not large numbers.

And More or Less may have moved to a slot when there are usually more listeners, but Radio Joint Audience Research, which publishes data on audience numbers, has not collected any data since March. Does that really add up to a nation obsessed with stats?

Prof Sir David Spiegelhalter, a former president of the Royal Statistical Society and the nation’s go-to man for explaining statistics, settles the matter with an anecdote. “There’s been a massive rise in public interest in statistics,” he said. “I notice that because I have had a continuous stream of correspondence.”

For those who carp that the plural of anecdote is not data, Spiegelhalter – chair of the Winton Centre for Risk and Evidence Communication at Cambridge University – pointed out that stats are not everything. Quantitative research also requires qualitative research, he said, particularly in medical contexts. “We measure things but we also do interviews that are not turned into numbers. To understand what’s going on, both are absolutely essential – it’s not a choice between the two.”

Spiegelhalter, Harford and Mary Gregory, the OSR’s deputy director of regulation, agree that we seem to be treating statistics differently today. In the frenzy of public debate before March, numbers had become ammunition to be fired at the opposing side, on Brexit, immigration, trade, crime and every other matter of contention. Now, figures about testing, deaths, cases and hospital beds are essential for having any grasp of what’s going on.

“Everybody wants to know what the latest figures are in a way that I don’t think any other statistics published by government have quite had that impact on people,” Gregory said. “I’ve never been in a job where so many people in my personal life are interested in what I do in my work life.”

Interest in the OSR soared in June when Sir David Norgrove, the head of the UK Statistics Authority, wrote to Matt Hancock, the health secretary, accusing ministers of misleading the public over testing data.

At the time, Hancock and health officials were aiming for a target of 200,000 tests a day but gave only numbers of tests supplied, rather than how many had actually been carried out – a far more useful figure for anyone trying to understand the state of the testing regime.

Since Norgrove’s broadside, the OSR has found it much easier to persuade officials and politicians to publish more data – there might be a link, Gregory said. The government’s Covid-19 dashboard has been expanded. Public Health England has published more local authority-level data. The housing ministry has published information on rough sleepers.

And as a result of criticism by the OSR of Conservative and Labour claims during last year’s general election, the Department for Education now publishes official statistics on school funding.

“Our experience is quite positive when we approach somebody because there’s been a potential misuse of statistics,” Gregory said. “We almost always get the reaction that they want to make sure they correct it.”

Politicians and journalists do not generally lie but they are not off the hook, according to Will Moy, the chief executive of the independent fact-checking charity Full Fact, which has seen about 17 million visitors to its website this year – roughly twice as many as last year.

“We’re not happy, and neither is the public,” he said. “People generally do not trust politicians or journalists to tell the truth, and that’s a tragedy. A lot of the time when we fact-check things, we find that what people have said is accurate, or they have made a reasonable mistake. The idea that everybody is lying to us all the time is wrong. But you don’t have to be lying all the time to be untrustworthy.”

Harford’s first piece of advice to amateur statisticians is to notice their own emotional reaction before disputing claims: “It’s very easy to fool yourself into rejecting things that you shouldn’t.”

PERCEPTION Many people believe that violence is rising, yet fewer than two in 100 adults were victims of violent crime in 2016/7, compared with the peak of nearly five in 100 in 1995.

REALITY Violent crime is now far lower than in the 1990s.Source: Full Fact

PERCEPTION The average guess of UK election turnout is 49%. The French believe theirs is 57%.

PERCEPTION The average guess of people in Britain is that under half the population – 44% – is overweight. In Saudi Arabia, the average guess is 28%.

REALITY Out of every 100 people in the UK, 62 are overweight or obese. People in Saudi Arabia are even less realistic: there 71% are overweight. Source: Bobby Duffy, The Perils of Perception

REALITY Turnout at the last UK general election was 67%, and in France it was 80%.Source: Bobby Duffy, The Perils of Perception

PERCEPTION Many people think employment figures are inflated by zero-hours contracts. 

REALITY Even if all those on zero-hours contracts are removed, 74.1% of working-age people were employed in 2019, higher than at any time before 2015.Source: Full Fact 

PERCEPTION People in the UK guess, on average, that 25% of the population are immigrants. In the US, people guess that 33% are immigrants.

REALITY Immigrants make up 13% of the British population, and 14% of the US population.Source: Bobby Duffy, The Perils of Perception





No.31 article:
Covid set to cause 400,000 surge in TB deaths as medics diverted

Millions of missed diagnoses will add to global pandemic toll, warns WHO study 

Scientists have warned that several hundred thousand extra deaths from tuberculosis are likely to occur this year as a result of Covid-19’s effect on global health services.

In many countries – including South Africa, India and Indonesia – doctors and health workers have been shifted from tracking TB cases to tracing people infected with Covid-19. Equipment and budgets have also been reassigned, an investigation by the World Health Organisation (WHO) has revealed.

As a result, millions of TB diagnoses have been missed, and according to the WHO this is likely to result in 200,000 to 400,000 excess deaths from the disease this year alone, with a further million new cases occurring every year after that for the next five years.

“This is just one example of the very difficult choices that had to be taken to contain Covid-19,” said Thomas Kenyon, chief health officer of Project Hope, the humanitarian NGO. “It was obviously crucial that we tackle the pandemic but we cannot forget that we have other killers in our midst. We are going to have to be innovative in addressing them.”

TB is the world’s leading cause of death from infectious disease, topping both HIV and malaria. It is contagious and is caused by a bacterium known as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which commonly attacks the lungs but can affect any part of the body, from the bloodstream to the brain.

Humanity has lived with the threat of TB for millennia. The ancient Egyptians knew of its dangers and it is believed that Nefertiti and her Pharaoh husband Akhenaten both died from tuberculosis in around 1330 BC.

In modern times TB has become a global scourge and it is believed that about 10 million people are infected with the disease each year, while about 1.5 million people die from it. The WHO says the planet is now in the grip of global TB epidemic, which it has pledged to defeat by 2030. The condition can be treated using a six-month drug regime – provided a diagnosis is made in time. Major efforts to contain the disease began in 2015. At first, efforts to contain it were successful and the number of deaths began to fall. This decline has slowed recently. One problem has been the spread of antibiotic-resistant strains of TB, particularly in nations that made up the former Soviet Union.

With the arrival of Covid-19, the global battle against TB received a further setback. According to the WHO, problems have arisen not just because key staff have been reallocated from TB tracing to Covid testing but also because critically important equipment and materials have been redeployed. In addition, some countries have cut inpatient and outpatient care for TB sufferers.

A particular problem has arisen in relation to a test called GeneXpert, which is efficient at identifying the molecular signature of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in people with TB. The test is also very good at identifying individuals who have Covid-19.

“Many countries have changed to using GeneXpert machines for Covid-19 testing instead of diagnostic testing for TB,” reported WHO, which said it had also found numerous examples of staff reassignment and reallocation of budgets from TB to Covid work.

In India, Indonesia, the Philippines and South Africa – which account for 44% of all global TB cases – this led to large drops in the number of people diagnosed with the disease between January and June this year. “As a result, the global number of TB deaths could increase by around 0.2–0.4 million in 2020 alone,” the WHO report predicts.

It adds that Covid-19 is likely to affect the world’s TB epidemic in two other key ways: GDP per capita and undernutrition. “Modelling has suggested that the number of people developing TB could increase by more than one million per year in the period 2020–2025. The impact on livelihoods resulting from lost income or unemployment could also increase the percentage of people with TB and their households facing catastrophic costs.”

This point was backed by Kenyon. “We have to face the fact that we are going to get a lot of deaths caused directly by Covid, but we also have to realise we are going to get a lot of deaths caused indirectly by the disease,” he said.





No.32 article:
Woman in Guatemalan village hit by Storm Eta loses 22 members of her family

Scores of people buried under rivers of mud unleashed by torrential rain in remote mountainous area, as weather front heads to Cuba 

Rescue workers have clambered over treacherous roads buried in mud and rubble to reach a remote mountain village in Guatemala swamped by a devastating storm that has killed dozens of people, including 22 members of the same family.

Torrential downpours unleashed by Storm Eta toppled trees, engorged swift-moving rivers, and ripped down parts of a mountainside above the village of Queja in the central Guatemalan region of Alta Verapaz, burying dozens of people in their homes.

The heavy rains were still triggering mudslides in Queja on Saturday as one villager, Gloria Cac, a member of the Poqomchi people, was left distraught by the loss of 22 family members after the mountain collapsed onto the village.

Cac, carrying a small child in her arms, said: “All my family is gone, I’m the only survivor. My dad, mother, siblings, aunts and uncles, grandparents, they’re all gone. Twenty-two family members.”

Francisco Muz, a retired general who was helping in the rescue efforts, said the landslides have not stopped because of the continuous rains in the mountains.

“At ground zero there is a terrible reality ... this national tragedy is centered in San Cristobal Verapaz, in Queja village,” Muz said.

It is believed at least 150 people have been killed by the storm in Guatemala. It has also spread destruction from Panama to Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras and Mexico, and the death toll in those countries stood at 65 on Saturday.

Panama’s government increased its tally after floods and landslides killed 17 people there. Two miners were reported killed in Nicaragua, while in southern Costa Rica a landslide killed a Costa Rican woman and an American man in a house. A man was killed in El Salvador, and Honduras has reported 25 dead and two missing.

In the Mexican state of Chiapas, flooding has killed 19 people, many swept away by rivers that burst their banks, state authorities said. North of Chiapas in Tabasco state, the deluges killed two more people, the federal government said.

Hundreds of thousands of Cubans began evacuating their homes on Saturday as Eta neared the Caribbean island’s southern coast, threatening torrential rain and flooding.

The devastation harked back to Hurricane Mitch, which killed some 10,000 people in Central America in 1998.

Firefighters in the disaster-hit area of Guatemala were preparing on Saturday to make the journey on foot to Queja, which they said could take a full day.

“An attempt was already made to get through but it’s very difficult and we’re really sad we couldn’t get through, but it’s very dangerous,” said Juan Alberto Leal, an official with the local fire service. “The problem is that there are several mudslides throughout the route.”

Ordinarily, the 22-km (13.7 mile) trip between San Cristobal Verapaz and Queja takes an hour by car.

Some 55 soldiers, 25 firefighters and 15 police officers have managed to reach the site of the disaster and were using shovels and picks to search for survivors and retrieve bodies. So far three bodies have been recovered.

“The mud is very thick, it’s hard to know really just how thick, and we’re digging from the surface until we find the first homes and there could be bodies there,” army spokesman Colonel Ruben Tellez said.

It could take months to unearth all the homes, he added.





No.33 article:
Mexico&#x27;s president won&#x27;t congratulate Biden on election win until legal challenges over

Andrés Manuel López Obrador will wait for courts to rule on Trump lawsuits in bid to avoid friction

Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said on Saturday he would not congratulate a winner of the US presidential election until legal challenges are concluded, in an apparent bid to avoid friction with Washington during the transition.

Democrat Joe Biden won the election on Saturday after a victory in the battleground state of Pennsylvania put him over the threshold of 270 electoral college votes.

Mexico is the United States’ top trade partner, with over $600bn of annual two-way commerce, and the bilateral relationship with its northern neighbour is by far the most important for Mexico.

“With regard to the US election, we are going to wait until all the legal matters have been resolved,” López Obrador, commonly known as Amlo, said at a news conference.

“I can’t congratulate one candidate or the other. I want to wait until the electoral process is over.”

Republican president Donald Trump has filed a raft of lawsuits to challenge the results, but electoral officials in states across the country say there has been no evidence of significant fraud, and legal experts say Trump’s efforts are unlikely to succeed.

The Mexican president linked his caution to his own allegations of fraud in two presidential elections he contested, in 2006 and 2012, before winning on his third bid in 2018.

His reluctance to comment on the US results stands in contrast to congratulations offered to Bolivia’s former president Evo Morales last year despite opposition claims of fraud in that re-election bid.

Mexican officials said the decision was born of a desire to avoid provoking Trump while he remained in the White House.

“Bolivia doesn’t have a 3,000-km border with Mexico,” an official said of the apparent contradiction. “It’s important to have a couple of months of peace and good neighbourly relations.“

In his remarks, Amlo said he had a good relationship with both Trump and former vice president Biden, whom he said he had known for a decade.

He has needed to toe a fine line with Trump, whose term is scheduled to end on 20 January. A Biden presidency could reset ties that have frayed since Trump made his first White House bid, tarring Mexican migrants as rapists and gun-runners and vowing to keep them out with a border wall.

Under Trump, Mexico has had to navigate abrupt demands to stem illegal migration or face trade tariffs.

However, by acceding to Trump’s migration dictates, Amlo has forged an uneasy relationship of some mutual convenience, in which Washington has mostly avoided criticising his economic policies.

“President Trump has been very respectful with us,” he said. “And we are thankful that he has not meddled.”





No.34 article:
UK reports 413 deaths; Trump chief of staff tests positive for Covid – as it happened

Latest UK figures show 24,957 new cases in 24 hours; Trump aide Mark Meadows has Covid-19; Poland registers record 27,875 new cases

We’re closing this blog now but you can continue to keep up with all the updates at our new blog here:

In the UK, NHS staff and key workers who have died during the nation’s struggle against coronavirus should be given their own memorial marking their sacrifice, the Liberal Democrat leader has said.

Speaking on the eve of Remembrance Sunday, Sir Ed Davey said he wanted to see a memorial built near parliament to those who have perished while helping in the battle against the pandemic.

The Cenotaph in Whitehall was built to mark the end of the first world war and is now the scene of annual commemorations to pay tribute to those who have died while serving in the armed forces to protect the UK.

The former cabinet minister said, as well as a national war memorial, there should also be a place in the capital to “remember these brave heroes” who died either caring for people or while helping keep society going during Covid.

Almost 50,000 people have died in the UK after being diagnosed with coronavirus, according to official figures.

There’s a bit of news around today, including that the US has finally finished its Tuesday, several days later. President-elect Joe Biden and vice president-elect Kamala Harris have just arrived in Wilmington, Delaware, to deliver a victory speech.

My colleagues in the US are covering it over in the US election live blog here: 

Papua New Guinea has reported a second case in New Ireland province. A 58-year-old man who who is employed Newcrest Mining Limited in Lihir had traveled from Buka in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, and 11 contacts have been identified authorities said.

PNG authorities said the country has recored 599 cases of Covid-19 in total, and 585 have recovered. However testing has been minimal - about 29,500 in a total population of 8.6 million - and the infection rate is expected to be much higher than 599, with cases reported in 15 of the 20 provinces. 

Hello, this is Helen Davidson here to take you through the next few hours. 

A quick check in on the Australian state of New South Wales, where authorities reported zero new local cases in the last 24 hours but are still investigating an emerging cluster in the Southern Highlands region, south of Sydney.

“The source of the [five] recent cases in Moss Vale remains under investigation,” the health department said. 

“Due to these and other recent cases, in line with previous advice the call for testing continues to apply particularly to people in South Western Sydney, including in and around the communities of Leppington, Hoxton Park and Prestons; and to people in the Southern Highlands region, including the communities in and around Moss Vale, Mittagong and Bowral. Extra testing capacity has been made available in these regions.”

Three people in hotel quarantine were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the 24 hours to Saturday night. There are 63 people being treated for Covid-19 in the state, but 95% are non-acute cases. One person is in intensive care but does not need ventilation.

Hello, my time covering this blog has come to an end. I’ll now hand over to my colleague Helen Davidson for further updates. 

Andrews has outlined some further steps to ease restrictions which are planned for 22 November:

The Victorian premier, Daniel Andrews, has announced the further lifting of Covid-19 restrictions in the state.

After Victoria recorded no new cases of the virus for the ninth day in a row on Sunday, Andrews announced that from 11.59pm tonight both the 25 kilometre travel rule in Melbourne and the “ring of steel” border separating the city from regional Victoria will be removed.

“Families will be able to be together again,” he said.

Andrews also announced the loosening of a number of restrictions including:

He said the state’s mask mandate will remain in place for the time being.

“A time will come where we can again have some changes to that but that is not for today and I will not speculate when that will be,” he said.

He also said the Victorian state of emergency will be extended to 6 December but the state of disaster will not be renewed. 

Care home residents in England face a postcode lottery over visiting because ministers have abdicated responsibility to local officials, my colleague James Tapper reports.

Read the full story here:

The Queen has worn a face mask in public for the first time as she made a poignant pilgrimage to the grave of the Unknown Warrior to mark the centenary of his burial on Wednesday, PA Media reports.

Following government regulations, the head of state adopted the covering when she visited the place of worship for a brief ceremony - her first public engagement in London since March.

A royal aide described the service as “deeply personal” for the monarch, who was married at the Abbey in November 1947, and in tribute to the symbolic serviceman she left flowers, based on her wedding bouquet, at his final resting place.

Members of the royal family from the Prince of Wales to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have appeared at official events wearing face coverings for the past few months, and the Queen has now followed suit. 

The recently locked down Australian state of Victoria has recorded another day of zero cases and deaths.

The state’s 14-day average is now 0.4, and there are two cases with an unknown source that Victoria Health is aware of.





No.35 article:
Ed Davey says the sacrifice of those on the frontline should be remembered

NHS staff and key workers who have died during the nation’s struggle against coronavirus should be given their own memorial marking their sacrifice, the Liberal Democrat leader has said.

Speaking on the eve of Remembrance Sunday, Sir Ed Davey said he wanted to see a memorial built near parliament to those who have perished while helping in the battle against the pandemic.

The Cenotaph in Whitehall was built to mark the end of the first world war and is now the scene of annual commemorations to pay tribute to those who have died while serving in the armed forces to protect the UK.

The former cabinet minister said, as well as a national war memorial, there should also be a place in the capital to “remember these brave heroes” who died either caring for people or while helping keep society going during Covid.

Almost 50,000 people have died in the UK after being diagnosed with coronavirus, according to official figures.

In July, Amnesty International revealed the UK has recorded one of the highest Covid-19 health worker death tolls in the world, at more than 540 fatalities.

As well as taking the lives of doctors, nurses and carers, those working on the frontline of public services also died after contracting the virus.

Last month, Transport for London reported that another bus driver had died, taking the tally to 45 in London alone.

Davey, who became permanent leader of the party in August, said: “As I attend the Cenotaph as the Liberal Democrat leader for the first time, I’ll be thinking about the enormity of the sacrifices millions of people have made, so we can live in a free and safe country.

“Taking part in Remembrance Sunday during lockdown should make all of us think about the extraordinary sacrifices key workers, particularly health and care workers, have also made throughout the coronavirus pandemic to keep us safe.

“I sincerely hope that one day we have a monument in Westminster to those who died in service during this awful pandemic, so we can remember these brave heroes, as we remember with thanks our armed forces who put themselves in danger in the service of our country.”

The country is preparing to mark Remembrance Sunday differently this year, with social distancing restrictions in place across the UK and a full lockdown being enforced in England.

The UK government has encouraged councils to ensure remembrance services are short, entirely outdoors and held in front of limited numbers.

But, despite allowing open-air services, the government has stressed to event organisers that the public should be discouraged from attending in person.






