No.1 article:
Dishonesty Has Defined the Trump Presidency. The Consequences Could Be Lasting.

Whether President Trump wins or loses on Nov. 3, the very concept of public trust in an established set of facts necessary for the operation of a democratic society has been eroded.

WASHINGTON — Born amid made-up crowd size claims and “alternative facts,” the Trump presidency has been a factory of falsehood from the start, churning out distortions, conspiracy theories and brazen lies at an assembly-line pace that has challenged fact-checkers and defied historical analogy.

But now, with the election two days away, the consequences of four years of fabulism are coming into focus as President Trump argues that the vote itself is inherently “rigged,” tearing at the credibility of the system. Should the contest go into extra innings through legal challenges after Tuesday, it may leave a public with little faith in the outcome — and in its own democracy.

During his final weekend of campaign rallies, Mr. Trump continued to sow doubt about the validity of the election, making clear that he would deem any outcome other than victory for him to be corrupt. At a rally in Philadelphia, which has a sizable nonwhite population and a Democratic-led government, he asserted that the city would falsify the results. “Are they going to mysteriously find more ballots” after polls close, he asked. “Strange things have been known to happen, especially in Philadelphia.”

The nightmarish scenario of widespread doubt and denial of the legitimacy of the election would cap a period in American history when truth itself has seemed at stake under a president who has strayed so far from the normal bounds that he creates what allies call his own reality. Even if the election ends with a clear victory or defeat for Mr. Trump, scholars and players alike say the very concept of public trust in an established set of facts necessary for the operation of a democratic society has eroded during his tenure with potentially long-term ramifications.

“You can mitigate the damage, but you can’t bring it back to 100 percent the way it was before,” said Lee McIntyre, the author of “Post-Truth” and a philosopher at Boston University. “And I think that’s going to be Trump’s legacy. I think there’s going to be lingering damage to the processes by which we vet truths for decades. People are going to be saying, ‘Oh, that’s fake news.’ The confusion between skepticism and denialism, the idea that if you don’t want to believe something, you don’t have to believe it — that’s really damaging, and that’s going to last.”

Indeed, the very idea of truth is increasingly a fungible commodity in a political environment that seems to reward the loudest voices, not the most honest. In a recent poll for Newsweek, 54 percent of Americans agreed that lying has become more acceptable in American politics in recent years, while only 13 percent said it was less acceptable and the rest said it was about the same or did not have a view.

Nancy L. Rosenblum, a Harvard University professor emerita who wrote “A Lot of People Are Saying” with Russell Muirhead, said that may not change even if Mr. Trump leaves office after one term because he proved the advantages of truth-bending politics and helped build up an information infrastructure where reality is like an à la carte menu from which Americans can pick their favorite variant.

“Conspiracy charges and a certain amount of lying have proved to be good weapons in political fighting where you have deep, deep divisions, and there’s no reason to think other parties won’t take it up under desperate circumstances,” she said. “So we can expect it to go on but without the same effect.”

The lasting impact may be most evident in terms of the coronavirus pandemic that has already killed more than 230,000 in the United States. Even as the outbreak surges to new peaks, Mr. Trump has been falsely insisting that it is “rounding the corner” to an end, telling Americans not to worry rather than urging them to take precautions.

The disconnect has tangible consequences. Republicans who support Mr. Trump are more likely to dismiss the threat of the virus in surveys and less likely to wear masks or maintain social distance. A poll last week by Axios and Ipsos found only half of Americans could correctly respond to six factual questions about the virus, indicating how far misinformation linked to reckless behavior has pervaded the public.

Scientists have concluded that 130,000 lives could be saved in the United States in the coming months if there was universal mask wearing. But Mr. Trump mocks facial coverings and disparages medical experts, undercutting their credibility with the public, most notably Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the federal government’s chief epidemiologist who now has to have a security detail after vilification by the president and his allies. With views of the virus increasingly falling along party lines, many Americans express distrust over a possible new vaccine, which could lead to widespread resistance to inoculation.

Beyond the health crisis, Mr. Trump’s successor, whether next year or in five years, could face a broader crisis in faith, challenged to re-establish credibility with overseas allies and adversaries, while presiding over a country where truth has been broken down into tribes and much of the public has been conditioned to distrust institutions of all sorts.

Mr. Trump has spent four years telling Americans not to trust anyone other than him, whether it be public health experts, scientists, journalists, judges, career government officials, investigators, generals, intelligence agencies, election officials and even mail carriers. “Just remember,” he told a crowd one summer, “what you are seeing and what you are reading is not what’s happening.”

Trust, once lost, is hard to restore. “We know a lot about the delegitimation of democratic institutions over the last two centuries,” Ms. Rosenblum said. “But we know nothing about how you relegitimate institutions that have lost their main value and authority for an awful lot of people. That’s the real question.”

Dishonesty has been a defining hallmark of the Trump presidency. The sheer volume of untruths, both petty and profound, has been cataloged and quantified time and again, the subject of a shelf full of books and endless hand-wringing over the “post-truth” world.

This is a president who casually accused a television anchor of murder, who spread the claim that Osama bin Laden is not actually dead and that President Barack Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. had the Navy’s SEAL Team 6 killed, who literally took a Sharpie to a map to create his own fake weather forecast and reprimanded meteorologists who dared to correct him.

Campaign rallies have been chock-full of specious claims and fan-fiction narratives. He has renewed his assertion that Mexico is paying for his border wall, declared that he won the women’s vote in 2016 and claimed credit for restoring order in Minneapolis, none of which is true. The New York Times tabulated 131 false or misleading statements in a single rally in Janesville, Wis. The Washington Post counted more than 22,000 false or misleading statements over nearly four years, including 189 on a single day in August.

When challenged, Mr. Trump simply brushes it off. After a reporter in August asked “do you regret at all, all the lying you’ve done to the American people,” the president sought to clarify the question and then once he understood it called on another reporter without replying.

It is often left to aides to try to re-engineer what he says to fit the facts or dismiss facts altogether, often simply turning the tables by complaining about biased nit-picking by the news media.

“The American people never have to wonder how the president feels about a particular topic, which is one of the many reasons they chose to elect him over the same, old, recycled politicians who just use the poll-tested talking points,” said Judd Deere, a White House spokesman. He asserted that “the media routinely manipulates the president’s words and takes him totally out of context, but that will never stop him from unapologetically calling out their biased reporting, raising important questions or suggesting common sense ideas to solve problems.”

There is, of course, a long history of presidential prevarication. Franklin D. Roosevelt was hardly straight with the American public before World War II, nor was Lyndon B. Johnson during the Vietnam War. Richard M. Nixon lied about a burglary and was forced to resign. Ronald Reagan conflated movie memories with real life and regularly spun out favorite stories with no apparent basis in fact. Bill Clinton was impeached for lying under oath about his affair with a White House intern. George W. Bush went to war based on false intelligence even if he did not actually know it to be false.

Mr. Biden, now the Democratic presidential nominee, has had his own misadventures with misstatements, caught on several occasions during his career in politics puffing up his own record. His first presidential campaign blew up in 1987 after he lifted lines from another politician’s speech without credit, overstated his academic accomplishments and was revealed to have been accused of plagiarism in law school. Mr. Biden, unlike Mr. Trump, admitted the errors, while calling them innocent mistakes. Still, he has been prone to exaggeration since then as well.

But as with so many things, Mr. Trump takes matters to his own Trumpian extremes. Many of his falsehoods may be minor, but others would have created days of headlines under any other president. And when other presidents got caught, there were corrections or consequences or at least an effort to avoid repeating the misstatements. Not so with Mr. Trump.

The American system has never figured out quite how to respond to a president who gives the conspiracy theorists of QAnon a hearing at the White House. For four years, a cottage industry of debate has raged about postmodernist theory and whether Trumpian truth is simply the most extreme manifestation of an American tendency to write our own reality, that there is no universal truth, only individual experiences with it.

Publishers have pumped out books with titles like “The Death of Truth,” “Truth Decay” and “Donald Trump and His Assault on Truth,” while newsrooms wrestled with the question of when to use the word “lie” and social media giants began applying warning labels to the president of the United States lest Americans actually believe what he says.

Fact-checks could never keep up with the avalanche of assertions and many people simply chose camps. Only 40 percent of Americans see Mr. Trump as honest and trustworthy, according to Gallup, compared with 52 percent who find Mr. Biden to be so. (In their re-election years, 45 percent judged Mr. Clinton honest, 55 percent considered Mr. Bush so and 60 percent believed Mr. Obama was.)

“We don’t even blink at this stuff anymore. Nobody blinks,” said Amanda Carpenter, a former adviser to Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, who wrote the book “Gaslighting America” about Mr. Trump’s deceptions. “We have to not pay attention to it just in order to survive. You can’t sustain the outrage. At the same time then, people will push this further and further and there are real world effects.”

Many Republicans who once called Mr. Trump on his falsehoods gave up and some even jumped on his train. Mr. Cruz, whose father Mr. Trump bizarrely linked to John F. Kennedy’s assassination during the 2016 campaign, called the future president a “pathological liar” at the time. “He doesn’t know the difference between truth and lies,” Mr. Cruz said then. “He lies practically every word that comes out of his mouth.” But Mr. Cruz became one of Mr. Trump’s staunchest defenders during his impeachment trial.

Mr. Trump’s disregard for facts long predates the White House, of course. His penchant for “truthful hyperbole,” as he put it in his first memoir, meant faking work at a construction site to fool business partners or advertising Trump Tower as a 68-floor building when it actually has 58. He propelled himself into politics with the lie that Mr. Obama may have been born in Africa.

Where Mr. Trump is oddly most honest, it often seems, is in explaining his own motivations. He openly admits self-interested calculations that other presidents would at the very least shroud behind high-minded, gauzy justifications. He told a crowd in Erie, Pa., recently that he would not have bothered to visit if he were doing better in the polls. He leaves no doubt that he wants his attorney general to investigate his opponents in order to help his campaign and that he wanted his nominee confirmed to the Supreme Court before the election to gain another vote in case the justices decide the result.

Many supporters acknowledge that some of what he says is not literally true but consider him more honest than typical politicians because he seems to say what he actually thinks, rather than sticking to safe, poll-tested, milquetoast talking points. His bracing, hold-nothing-back performances strike admirers as more real and, yes, more authentic, a word that is gold to the political class.

“How can it be that someone we all know is such a liar is also seen as authentic?” asked David Greenberg, a professor at Rutgers University and author of “Republic of Spin,” a history of White House image-making that preceded Mr. Trump. “It’s because authenticity isn’t exactly the same thing as truthfulness. It’s also about a truthful presentation of yourself and what yourself is — and it may be that his authentic self is a liar.”





No.2 article:
In Dash to Finish, Biden and Trump Set Up Showdown in Pennsylvania

Both campaigns were intensifying their efforts in a state increasingly critical to victory, as the candidates and their surrogates planned a final blitz to make their closing arguments.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

PHILADELPHIA — As the national early vote climbs past a staggering 93 million and challenges to the electoral process intensify across states, President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. are barreling into Pennsylvania and turning it into the top battleground in Tuesday’s election, with Democrats flooding in with door-knockers and Republicans trying to parlay Mr. Trump’s rallies into big turnout once again.

​Both campaigns see Pennsylvania as increasingly crucial to victory: Mr. Trump now appears more competitive here than in Michigan and Wisconsin, two other key northern states he hopes to win, and Mr. Biden’s clearest electoral path to the White House runs through the state. Pennsylvania has more Electoral College votes, 20, than any other traditional battleground except Florida, and Mr. Trump won the state by less than one percentage point in 2016.

Mr. Trump devoted Saturday to four rallies across the state, and he and Mr. Biden planned campaign events for the final 48 hours of the race as well, with a wave of prominent Democrats and celebrities slated to arrive. On Monday the president was set to make an appeal to white, working-class voters in Scranton, where Mr. Biden was born, while the Democratic nominee was aiming to solidify a broad coalition of white suburbanites and voters of color on a two-day swing through Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and elsewhere in western Pennsylvania.

Mr. Biden is ahead with a modest margin in recent polls, and is trying to cut into the president’s turnout in rural counties. But Mr. Trump’s rallies have energized many Republican voters, and his team is already preparing legal challenges over the vote if it ends up being close. On Sunday, the president told reporters, “as soon as that election’s over, we’re going in with our lawyers.” 

In Pennsylvania in particular, the possibility of extended court battles and confusion hangs over the race, with the state Republican Party hoping the Supreme Court will reconsider its decision last week to allow the state to continue receiving absentee ballots for three days after Election Day. 

“Every day is a new reminder of how high the stakes are, how far the other side will go to try to suppress the turnout,” Mr. Biden said as he campaigned here Sunday. “Especially here in Philadelphia. President Trump is terrified of what will happen in Pennsylvania.”

Court battles have already rearranged the voting process across an array of states and continued to do so on Sunday. The Texas Supreme Court denied an effort by Republicans to throw out more than 120,000 votes that had been cast at drive-through locations in Harris County, an increasingly Democratic area anchored in Houston. Republicans are now hoping for a favorable ruling at the federal level, where a judge has called an election-eve hearing for Monday.

Some Trump supporters also turned disruptive on Sunday: Vehicles bearing Trump flags halted traffic on the Garden State Parkway in New Jersey; local officials said the motorcade backed up traffic for several miles. In Georgia, a rally for Democrats that had been scheduled was canceled, with organizers citing worries over what they feared was a “large militia presence” drawn by Mr. Trump’s own event nearby.

Throughout his final sprint of rallies, Mr. Trump has moved to baselessly sow doubt about the integrity of the electoral process. At an appearance in Dubuque, Iowa, on Sunday, Mr. Trump claimed, inaccurately, that the result of the election was always determined on Election Day. “We should know the result of the election on Nov. 3,” he said. “The evening of Nov. 3. That’s the way it’s been and that’s the way it should be. What’s going on in this country?”

Mr. Biden countered with his own warning later Sunday, saying, “The president is not going to steal this election.”

Mr. Trump’s lagging position in the race was evident in his grueling travel schedule that had him shoring up votes in five states he won four years ago — Michigan, Iowa, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida.

His final rally of the day was scheduled for 11 p.m., and risked violating a midnight curfew in Miami-Dade County.

Mr. Biden, by contrast, set his sights squarely on Pennsylvania on Sunday, an approach he will repeat again Monday, along with a foray into Ohio, a state Mr. Trump won handily in 2016 but that polls show could be more competitive now.

The Biden campaign was intensifying its push in Pennsylvania, encouraging supporters from out of state to join canvassing efforts that for months it had sworn off because of the health risks. The campaign said that volunteers had knocked on more than 350,000 doors on Saturday, and made 2 million calls and sent 1.5 million text messages to voters in the state.

Compared with other swing states, such as Florida, far fewer early ballots have already been cast in Pennsylvania and, according to the U.S. Elections Project, as of Sunday there were more than 350,000 absentee ballots that had been requested by Democratic voters that had yet to be returned. The Biden campaign is focused on the fact that a large share of the electorate here is still expected to vote on Election Day, an adviser said.

The final sprint of the race came against a different backdrop than in previous elections, with fewer voters left to motivate. The record number of early votes underscored the intense interest in one of the most consequential elections in modern history, despite the logistical challenges of voting amid a pandemic.

Mr. Biden spent Sunday afternoon with Black voters at a drive-in “Souls to the Polls” event at a Philadelphia church. His outreach came as Democrats have worried about his ability to sufficiently energize and turn out Black and Latino Democratic voters in some states. He addressed another drive-in rally in the city Sunday evening, reminding voters of their influence over the outcome.

Mr. Trump, for his part, made his own pitch to Black voters while campaigning in Hickory, N.C. “To every Black American, I am asking you to vote on Tuesday,” he said, projecting confidence about his own standing with Black voters.

Mr. Biden’s Philadelphia events kicked off a last push through the state over the final two days. On Monday, Mr. Biden, Senator Kamala Harris and their spouses are expected to campaign in five media markets, hoping to cement support across a sprawling coalition and to keep Mr. Trump’s margins down in parts of western Pennsylvania that propelled him to victory in 2016.

“My message is simple,” Mr. Biden said Sunday. “Pennsylvania is critical in this election.”

Democrats are well aware of how devoted Mr. Trump’s core base remains. In Macomb County in Michigan, where the president held his first rally Sunday, Irwin Patterson was selling Trump merchandise at a makeshift roadside store.

“In Michigan here, just our little part of Michigan, the support that we see here is just insane,” he said, as windblown snow pelted his customers. “I mean, for the last month and a half, it’s just been off the hook.”

Still, Mr. Trump had work to do all over the country shoring up his support in states he won four years ago. In Michigan, Mr. Trump complained repeatedly about the freezing temperature and biting wind he said was pointed “directly” at his face while making false claims about resuscitating the auto industry there. He also embraced the actions of some of his supporters in Texas who had surrounded a Biden campaign bus with their vehicles on Saturday, in an apparent attempt to slow it down and run it off the road. Mr. Trump claimed the vehicles were “protecting his bus, yesterday, because they are nice.” 

Later, he tweeted in response to the news that the F.B.I. was investigating the incident that “in my opinion, these patriots did nothing wrong,” adding that federal authorities should be scrutinizing antifa instead. 

Of the three big Northern swing states Mr. Trump won by a hair four years ago, the once reliably blue state of Pennsylvania is the one his advisers believe is most likely within his reach. That’s in large part because of the support of rural voters and Mr. Biden’s call for eventually phasing out fossil fuels, an unpopular stance for many voters in a state with a large natural gas industry.

Mr. Trump entered the final hours of the race in a worse position here than he was four years ago, when Pennsylvania was seen as Hillary Clinton’s firewall. This time, Mr. Biden has a lead of six points, according to a new New York Times/Siena College poll released Sunday, and is working to create multiple pathways to 270 electoral votes.

That lead, however, isn’t enough to make Democrats and anti-Trump Republicans feel fully confident about the state of the race in Pennsylvania. Some of the president’s opponents in recent days have been worried about turnout in the state&#x27;s rural counties, as well as calls about requested ballots that never arrived.

The Trump campaign ads running in Pennsylvania have been overwhelmingly centered on economic messages, mainly jobs and taxes. The campaign’s most aired ad in Pennsylvania over the past week has been a negative ad claiming Mr. Biden will raise taxes (he has said he will raise taxes for those making over $400,000).

But the Biden campaign has not ceded the subject to the president, with 14 different ads on air that touch on jobs and the economy. Its most aired ad in Pennsylvania over the past week featured a Biden speech outlining his plans for pandemic recovery, including jobs. Another ad directly rebuts the Trump campaign’s attacks on his tax plan.

Pennsylvania’s economy is emerging from the pandemic recession but still has a long road ahead to its pre-crisis state. Like the nation, it has seen a two-track recovery that has left small businesses and low-earning workers behind.

Pennsylvania saw its unemployment rate fall to 8.1 percent in September, according to the Labor Department, nearly identical to the national rate of 7.9 percent. That is a significant improvement from the 16.1 percent unemployment it posted in April. But the state still had 380,000 fewer jobs in September than it did in September of 2019, and there are 18 percent fewer small businesses open here compared to a year ago, according to data compiled by the economists at Opportunity Insights.

Pennsylvania has long loomed large in the psyche of the Biden campaign. Mr. Biden, a Scranton native, gave his first speech of his presidential campaign in Pittsburgh, and he chose Philadelphia for his campaign headquarters, before the pandemic hit.

“That blue wall has to be re-established,” Mr. Biden said in another recent Pennsylvania campaign appearance. He said that winning the state meant a “great deal to me, personally as well as politically.”





No.3 article:
Election at Hand, Biden Leads Trump in Four Key States, Poll Shows

Joseph R. Biden Jr. leads President Trump in Pennsylvania, Florida, Arizona and, by a wide margin, in Wisconsin, according to a Times/Siena College poll.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

Joseph R. Biden Jr. holds a clear advantage over President Trump across four of the most important presidential swing states, a new poll shows, bolstered by the support of voters who did not participate in the 2016 election and who now appear to be turning out in large numbers to cast their ballots, mainly for the Democrat.

Mr. Biden, the former vice president, is ahead of Mr. Trump in the Northern battlegrounds of Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, as well as in the Sun Belt states of Florida and Arizona, according to a poll of likely voters conducted by The New York Times and Siena College. His strength is most pronounced in Wisconsin, where he has an outright majority of the vote and leads Mr. Trump by 11 points, 52 percent to 41 percent.

Mr. Biden’s performance across the electoral map appears to put him in a stronger position heading into Election Day than any presidential candidate since at least 2008, when in the midst of a global economic crisis Barack Obama captured the White House with 365 Electoral College votes and Mr. Biden at his side.

Mr. Trump’s apparent weakness in many of the country’s largest electoral prizes leaves him with a narrow path to the 270 Electoral College votes required to claim victory, short of a major upset or a systemic error in opinion polling surpassing even the missteps preceding the 2016 election. Should Mr. Biden’s lead hold in three of the four states tested in the survey, it would almost certainly be enough to win, and if he were to carry Florida, he would most likely need to flip just one more large state that Mr. Trump won in 2016 to clinch the presidency.

In the closing days of the campaign, Mr. Biden has a modest advantage in Florida, where he is ahead of Mr. Trump by three points, 47 percent to 44 percent, a lead that is within the margin of error. He leads by six points in both Arizona and Pennsylvania. In no state did Mr. Trump’s support climb higher than 44 percent.

The margin of error is 3.2 percentage points in Wisconsin and Florida; 3 points in Arizona and 2.4 points in Pennsylvania.

Mr. Biden has consistently held the upper hand over Mr. Trump across the electoral map in polling conducted by The Times since late last spring. While that advantage has varied over time, and has differed from state to state, he has at no point slipped behind Mr. Trump in any of the swing states that are likeliest to decide the election.

Mr. Biden’s lead is armored against last-minute developments in the race because of the scale of early and mail-in balloting that has already taken place as the country copes with a resurgence of the coronavirus. More than 90 million Americans had already cast their ballots as of midday Saturday, according to the United States Election Project. In three of the four states The Times surveyed, a majority of respondents said they had already voted, with Pennsylvania the exception.

The president, who narrowly carried all four states against Hillary Clinton, is now running behind his 2016 vote shares in all of them, a grave position for a sitting president just days before the election. He has also trailed consistently in public polls of Michigan, another large state he captured in 2016, which along with Wisconsin and Pennsylvania was part of the so-called Blue Wall along the Great Lakes that Democrats had relied on for decades.

Amid that bleak outlook, the president has continued to baselessly cast doubt on the integrity of the election. On Saturday in Pennsylvania, he told supporters that the nation could be waiting for weeks to learn of a winner and that “very bad things” could happen as ballots are counted in the days after the election.

Mr. Trump has continued to hold onto most of the coalition that elected him in the first place, made up chiefly of rural conservatives and white voters who did not attend college. In Florida, the president appears to have improved his position somewhat with Hispanic voters over the last four years, but he has slipped significantly with college-educated whites there. 

More broadly, Mr. Trump is facing an avalanche of opposition nationally from women, people of color, voters in the cities and the suburbs, young people, seniors and, notably, new voters. In all four states, voters who did not participate in 2016, but who have already voted this time or plan to do so, said they support Mr. Biden by wide margins. That group includes both infrequent voters and young people who were not yet eligible to vote four years ago.

In Wisconsin, voters who did not cast a ballot in 2016 favor Mr. Biden by 19 points. They have a similarly lopsided preference in Florida, where Mr. Biden leads by 17 points. His advantage with people who did not vote in 2016 is 12 points in Pennsylvania and 7 points in Arizona.

Many of the those who said they did not vote in 2016 said they had already voted this year. In Florida and Arizona, more than two thirds of nonvoters in 2016 who were identified as likely voters this year said that they had already cast a ballot. That figure was 56 percent in Wisconsin and 36 percent in Pennsylvania. 

Melissa Dibble, 47, of Boynton Beach, Fla., is one of those newly active voters. A registered independent, Ms. Dibble said she did not vote in 2016 because she did not believe Mrs. Clinton was “the right president for our country” and found Mr. Trump “laughable.” She said on Friday that she planned to vote for Mr. Biden that afternoon.

“I know how important it is to vote, but I couldn’t wrap my head around the options at that point,” Ms. Dibble said of the 2016 election. She said she was voting for Mr. Biden because “I really want change. I can’t believe that we have a president who is, at night, in bed tweeting nonsense and just talks poorly about people.”

Vince Kowalewski, 73, of Muhlenberg Township, Pa., said he had never voted in his life but was intent on voting against Mr. Trump, whom he called “the worst president we’ve ever had.”

“I have to go in there and vote against him,” Mr. Kowalewski said.

But Mr. Kowalewski said he also appreciated Mr. Biden’s health care policies, including the Affordable Care Act, which he credited with helping his daughter receive lifesaving cancer treatment.

The numbers on new voters represent a setback for the president, whose advisers have long contended he would outperform his polling numbers because of the support he would receive from infrequent or inconsistent voters. Republicans continue to hope that the Trump campaign’s voter-registration and turnout machinery might give him a crucial edge over Mr. Biden in a few key battlegrounds, or at least lift the party’s down-ballot candidates enough to maintain control of the Senate.

Based on the poll, however, it seems that Mr. Biden rather than Mr. Trump could be the beneficiary of record-busting turnout.

Still, the enthusiasm Mr. Trump stirs in his supporters remains a factor in the election. Linda Shoop, of Halifax, Pa., said she did not vote in 2016 but not for lack of a preference: A Trump supporter, Ms. Shoop has arthritis and struggles to get around. But with absentee voting more widely accessible this year, she said she would vote by mail for the president.

“He has common sense,” Ms. Shoop said, describing him as more forthright than a longtime politician like Mr. Biden. The president, she said, “doesn’t lie to you. If he says he’s going to do something, he goes and he does it.”

If the president is defeated, the most obvious explanation may be his weakness with women. Mr. Biden led Mr. Trump by double digits among female voters in each of the four states, and in some states the advantage was so significant that it offset Mr. Trump’s strength among men.

In Arizona, for example, the president had an eight-point advantage with men but Mr. Biden was the overwhelming favorite of women, winning 56 percent of them compared with Mr. Trump’s 38 percent.

The other group that is propelling Mr. Biden is college-educated white voters, a traditionally Republican bloc that has fled the Trump-era party. The former vice president is leading by double digits among white voters with college degrees in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Arizona and beating him, 48 percent to 45 percent, with that constituency in Florida.

In Maricopa County, Ariz., home to Phoenix and its suburbs, Mr. Biden is winning 48 percent of the vote compared with 42 percent for Mr. Trump, according to the survey. In 2016, Mr. Trump won the county by three points.Mr. Biden is also poised to become the first Democrat in 20 years to carry older adults, the voters who are most at risk with the coronavirus. In Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, the former vice president is leading by double digits with older voters. And in Florida and Arizona, retiree havens with wealthier and more tax-phobic seniors, Mr. Trump is effectively tied with Mr. Biden among older voters despite having won with them convincingly in both states in 2016.The president remains in contention in Florida on the strength of his support from working-class whites and his gains among Hispanic voters. He’s running more competitively with Florida Latinos than he did in 2016, and 9 percent of them remain undecided.

Hispanic men in Florida, in particular, are more willing to support Mr. Trump. The poll found the two candidates splitting this group almost evenly, with Mr. Biden ahead by just one point. But the president is facing an even larger gender gap in the Hispanic community than he is over all: Latinas favor Mr. Biden by 39 points.

Farah Robles Figueroa, of West Palm Beach, said she had already cast her vote for Mr. Biden in the largest of the traditional swing states. Ms. Robles, 32, is a registered Democrat but said she had sat out the 2016 election because she believed Mrs. Clinton was certain to win. She said she admired Mr. Biden’s personal character and approved of his recommendations for fighting the coronavirus, like mandating the use of masks.

But Ms. Robles also said she believed there was a larger issue at stake in the vote.

“I don’t want to be dramatic,” she said, “but I’m voting this year because it feels like democracy is at stake.”





No.4 article:
Trump, Venezuela and the Tug-of-War Over a Strongman

How a yearslong battle over U.S.-Venezuela relations aided President Trump’s campaign in Florida — and left the Maduro regime standing.

When President Trump turned to the Capitol gallery during his State of the Union speech in February to recognize Venezuela’s young opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, it seemed like a political masterstroke.

Mr. Guaidó’s surprise appearance — the culmination of efforts by foreign policy hawks to shift U.S. strategy in Latin America and dislodge Venezuela’s strongman president, Nicolás Maduro — prompted a standing ovation from Republicans and Democrats alike. “Maduro’s grip on tyranny will be smashed and broken,” Mr. Trump proclaimed. In the 2020 battleground of South Florida, home to hundreds of thousands of Venezuelan expatriates and Cuban-Americans who support their cause, Mr. Trump’s embrace of Mr. Guaidó drew a rapturous response.

But on the eve of Election Day, Mr. Trump’s approach to Venezuela has yielded both some political success and a foreign policy failure. Although recent polls show Mr. Trump running close to his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., among Florida’s Latino voters, his administration’s harsh sanctions have failed to oust Mr. Maduro, while leaving Chinese, Russian and Iranian interests more firmly entrenched in Venezuela. Mr. Maduro has effectively vanquished Mr. Guaidó, whose popular support has collapsed.

Mr. Maduro’s survival is, in part, a parable of foreign policy in Mr. Trump’s Washington — where ideologues, donors and lobbyists compete to seize the attention of an inexperienced and highly transactional president, warping and reshaping American diplomacy along the way.

The tug-of-war over Mr. Trump’s Venezuela position pitted Cuban-American activists and Florida politicians, who viewed Mr. Maduro as a proxy and energy supplier for Cuba’s Communist regime, against pro-Trump business interests advocating closer engagement with Mr. Maduro.

They included a billionaire donor from Florida; top lobbyists who have earned millions in the influence-business boom of Mr. Trump’s first term; and a Venezuelan oligarch, now under federal indictment, who worked to broker U.S. investments in his country.

At stake was not only the welfare of Venezuelans, but also the flow of billions of dollars in their country’s crude oil — and, Mr. Trump came to believe, his re-election prospects.

As Mr. Maduro endures, a key architect of Mr. Trump’s Venezuela policy left his White House post in September. The same month, another official met secretly in Mexico with a Maduro ally in a last-ditch effort to persuade Mr. Maduro to step down — which Mr. Trump could have touted as a triumph before November.

A White House spokesman, John Ullyot, said Mr. Trump’s leadership had led to broad international pressure on Mr. Maduro. “The president continues to support the Venezuelan people to ensure a future that is democratic and prosperous,” he said.

But some former officials who favored a tougher stance on Venezuela now question the administration’s approach.

“There is a very strong consideration for the donors, for the swing voters in Florida and for those that are just ideologically pure on the evilness of Cuba,” said Fernando Cutz, who worked on the National Security Council for Mr. Trump and his predecessor. “The nuance is gone — the diplomacy.”

In spring 2017, Brian Ballard, a lobbyist and top Trump fund-raiser from Florida, hosted a meeting with two people who would play a role in the struggle over Venezuela’s future.

One was Raúl Gorrín, who had amassed a fortune under Venezuela’s socialist government while building close ties to both Mr. Maduro and the opposition. He was among a wave of foreign interests reaching out to Mr. Ballard, who had recently opened a Washington office to meet the demand for lobbyists close to the new administration.

The other guest was Mauricio Claver-Carone, a longtime lobbyist on Cuba policy and a ferocious defender of the embargo. He had landed at the Treasury Department after working on the Trump campaign but had ambitions for a foreign policy role. Mr. Claver-Carone declined to comment.

As the two men talked alone, their conversation grew testy, according to Mr. Gorrín, 51. Mr. Claver-Carone insisted that the regime was close to collapse; Mr. Gorrín argued that Mr. Maduro was firmly in control and that the United States and Venezuela would benefit from a thaw.

“You don’t know Venezuela,” he recalled saying.

Mr. Trump, a mutual object of interest, had unformed views but was curious about Venezuela, piqued by its vast oil wealth and by the country’s dominance of the Miss Universe contest, which he once owned, according to two former White House aides.

He was also focused on re-election. “Trump saw Venezuela 110 percent through the prism of Florida’s electoral votes,” said a former senior U.S. official, who requested anonymity to characterize private conversations.

Mr. Trump heard often from Marco Rubio, the Cuban-American senator from Florida, who advised tougher sanctions. Under Mr. Maduro’s leadership, the economy of the once-wealthy country had cratered, its health system failed and opposition was often met with violence.

But Mr. Trump swung between belligerence that unnerved even his hawkish aides and supreme confidence in his negotiating skills. In summer 2017, while musing publicly about invading Venezuela, he also asked advisers whether he should meet with Mr. Maduro, according to one of the aides.

“We were always fearful that he would want to exercise that option,” said the former aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity. “You can’t say no. We said, ‘It’s going to be bad for your image, and he’s going to manipulate you.’”

That summer, Mr. Gorrín’s media company hired Mr. Ballard. Both men agree that Mr. Gorrín wanted help placing his Globovisión network on American television, where it might grow into a Spanish-language Fox News. Associates of Mr. Gorrín said he also hoped the lobbyist could establish him as a player in Washington on Venezuela policy, making key introductions. (Mr. Gorrín said Mr. Ballard proposed the middleman role; the lobbyist denied that and said he made no introductions.)

The Venezuelan said that Mr. Ballard connected him to Harry Sargeant III, a billionaire Trump donor from Florida who had worked in Venezuela in the 1990s. Mr. Sargeant, 62, saw Venezuela’s oil reserves as a business opportunity and the key to energy independence for the Americas.

Mr. Gorrín, in turn, helped arrange for Mr. Sargeant to meet state oil company officials in Caracas; when he arrived, he found himself in a session with Mr. Maduro as well. In an interview, Mr. Sargeant said he told Mr. Maduro that Venezuela needed American businesses to help rebuild its economy.

Soon after, one of Mr. Sargeant’s companies began negotiating a deal to take over three dilapidated oil fields. In summer 2018, Mr. Sargeant flew with an associate to see Mr. Trump at a New York fund-raiser, trying — unsuccessfully — to deliver a letter from Mr. Maduro.

In Washington, the hard-liners had been gaining ground. Mr. Trump fired Rex W. Tillerson, his secretary of state, in early 2018 and installed John Bolton, a veteran hawk, as national security adviser. In the White House, Mr. Rubio’s view — maximum pressure on Mr. Maduro — prevailed, with the State Department playing a diminishing role.

After Mr. Maduro won a second term in an election widely denounced as a sham, the Trump administration imposed new sanctions.

With support from Mr. Rubio and others, Mr. Bolton hired Mr. Claver-Carone that August to run Western Hemisphere affairs on the National Security Council. The administration began preparing economic penalties that would target Mr. Maduro’s inner circle and the oil assets he depended on for hard currency.

Later that fall, Mr. Claver-Carone met Mr. Sargeant for drinks near the White House. Mr. Sargeant had recently finalized the oil deal, one of the most favorable that Venezuela had granted to a foreign business in years. Mr. Maduro had allowed the project, he told Mr. Claver-Carone, to show that he wanted better relations with the United States.

Mr. Claver-Carone was unmoved, Mr. Sargeant recalled. There was only one message the official wanted to hear from Mr. Maduro: where the Venezuelan president wanted to live in exile, whom he wanted to accompany him and how much money he wanted to take.

In early 2019, the White House rallied an international coalition to recognize Mr. Guaidó, head of Venezuela’s National Assembly, as the country’s rightful president. Speaking to a Miami crowd that February, Mr. Trump urged the Venezuelan military to back Mr. Guaidó or “lose everything.”

By then, according to two Venezuelan opposition leaders and a former Trump administration official, Mr. Claver-Carone and others were pressing Venezuela’s military and political elite to turn on Mr. Maduro.

“He had to deliver a win,” the former administration official said. “He sold it to the president as, ‘if you get rid of Maduro, you win’” in Florida.

Among those Mr. Claver-Carone contacted, according to the opposition leaders, was Mr. Gorrín.

By then, he was technically a fugitive from American justice. The prior summer, U.S. prosecutors had charged him in an alleged money-laundering scheme. He dismissed the indictment as political persecution, but Mr. Ballard had dropped him as a client and Mr. Gorrín was added to the sanctions list.

Now, American officials and the Venezuelan opposition needed back channels of their own. According to the opposition leaders, Mr. Gorrín and other intermediaries were asked to convey U.S. offers of leniency to cooperative regime figures.

Mr. Gorrín had attended university with the chief justice of Venezuela’s supreme court; the Americans believed they had a deal with Mr. Gorrín to help deliver the judge and others to Mr. Guaidó&#x27;s side. That March, the Trump administration quietly took Mr. Gorrín’s wife off the sanctions list.

Mr. Gorrín, whose discussions with regime figures were reported by The Wall Street Journal last year, denied playing any role in the effort, and said he had no contact with Mr. Claver-Carone after their 2017 meeting.

An attempted uprising failed. The promised supreme court ruling never materialized. Mass demonstrations led by Mr. Guaidó fizzled, and Mr. Maduro deployed paramilitaries to torture and kill protesters.

Mr. Sargeant, whose oil deal had been scuttled by the new sanctions, saw an opening. That summer, he teamed up with Robert Stryk, a lobbyist who had earned millions representing foreign leaders in Washington. Mr. Stryk’s White House contacts told him that the president felt misled by his advisers on Venezuela. Eager to cut foreign policy deals that administration hawks opposed, Mr. Trump was clashing with Mr. Bolton. By September, he was gone.

The next month, Mr. Sargeant and Mr. Stryk flew to Caracas to meet with Mr. Maduro. When they arrived in the presidential palace, there was another guest: Mr. Gorrín.

Mr. Maduro seemed to brush off reports of Mr. Gorrín’s role in the failed April uprising. “He’s my guy,” Mr. Maduro remarked, according to another person present at the meeting. Mr. Maduro waxed about American baseball and said he was willing to let U.S. drug enforcement agents back into the country.

Mr. Stryk proposed a plan to secure formal legal representation for Mr. Maduro in Washington — a revived diplomatic channel. Mr. Maduro picked up a Trump figurine made of chocolate and mimed shaking his hand.

“We’re all having a meeting now,” he said.

Nothing would come of the effort. After Mr. Stryk and a law firm filed disclosure forms revealing their proposed work for the regime, the blowback was severe. Senator Rick Scott, a Florida Republican, pledged to blackball all the firm’s clients unless it withdrew. It did.

The Trump administration’s drive to unseat Mr. Maduro also faltered. He brushed off a White House proposal in March that he and Mr. Guaidó step aside in favor of a transitional government.

Mr. Maduro’s opponents grew desperate. In May, a group of radical opposition sympathizers, former military officers and American mercenaries tried to invade Venezuela by speedboats. The operation was ambushed. The attempted coup became a political one for Mr. Maduro, when documents linked one of Mr. Guaidó’s advisers to the putsch.

In scripted settings, Mr. Trump has remained committed to his administration’s hard-line policies. In a July appearance in Florida, he contrasted his attacks on Mr. Maduro with what he characterized as the socialist-friendly policies of Mr. Biden.

But in an interview with Axios in June, Mr. Trump had distanced himself from Mr. Guaidó, and suggested he was open to meeting Mr. Maduro. The president’s Twitter feed, once filled with denunciations of the Maduro regime, went all but silent on the topic this fall. By then, Mr. Claver-Carone was on his way out, to an influential job running the Inter-American Development Bank.

“It is a shame where we are right now,” said Steve Goldstein, a former top State Department aide to Mr. Tillerson. “Maduro should not be the president of Venezuela.”





No.5 article:
Steelers’ Unbeaten Streak Comes Down to Ravens’ Last, Best Play

Pittsburgh rallied from down 10 at the half to take a lead on Baltimore. That’s when Lamar Jackson and the Steelers’ defense collided.

Of the 256 games played every N.F.L. regular season, two — and only two — are as reliably entertaining as they are vicious and close, enriched with enmity, malice and a healthy dose of respect. They are the games between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Baltimore Ravens, A.F.C. North border feuds that teem with after-the-whistle skirmishes, out-of-bounds hits and postseason implications, year after year after year.

The latest installment of the league’s nastiest current rivalry, contested Sunday amid a pelting rain in Baltimore, contained the usual trappings and some added suspense. After four lead changes, a critical fourth-down stop and a spirited late drive, the Steelers’ 28-24 victory was not decided until the final, breathless play.

When it was over, after the Steelers had overcome a 10-point deficit and after Lamar Jackson’s throw into double coverage in the end zone had been batted away, the Steelers were almost too exhausted to celebrate — almost. They endured, asserting their divisional supremacy to remain the N.F.L.’s last unbeaten team, at 7-0, despite rampant statistical disadvantages and uncharacteristic lapses defending the run.

“We’re happy to win,” outside linebacker T.J. Watt said. “We don’t care if it’s good, bad or ugly.”

The fourth quarter dawned with Pittsburgh leading, 21-17, and after the teams traded go-ahead touchdowns, Baltimore (5-2), on its way to gashing the Steelers for an incomprehensible 265 rushing yards, needed a few more. Facing fourth-and-3 from the Pittsburgh 8-yard line with two minutes left, it turned to Jackson, its electrifying quarterback, to get them.

Steelers defensive end Isaiah Buggs ranged over and stuffed Jackson, forcing a fumble on a rush that gained 2 yards. But when Pittsburgh couldn’t get a first down on the resulting possession, it was forced to punt, and the Ravens — after Jackson found Willie Snead IV for 32 yards on fourth-and-2 — rumbled to the Steelers’ 23-yard line with eight seconds remaining. Watt thumped Jackson to force an inaccurate throw on first down. Then Jackson, with one play left, whipped a ball toward Snead — and two Steelers.

It fell to the ground, and so, for another week — the Steelers survived an errant field-goal attempt last week in Tennessee — the team with the best record in the league resides in the A.F.C. North. Pittsburgh had entered the game allowing the fewest yards in the N.F.L., and Baltimore came in yielding the fewest points. The matchup assumed even more of a cosmic significance, a reflection of the conference hierarchy.

Baltimore is no less a threat than it was before losing, especially after outgaining the Steelers, 457 to 221, and limiting them to three of nine conversions on third down. Jackson accounted for 273 yards — 65 on the ground — but threw two interceptions that Pittsburgh converted into 14 points. The second, which came early in the second half and was picked off by linebacker Alex Highsmith, catapulted the Steelers into contention.

It was as if the Steelers played last week’s game, dominating Tennessee in the first half then giving way to an unsightly second, in reverse. After trailing, 17-7, at halftime, having run only four plays in Baltimore territory, Pittsburgh regrouped — first, by intercepting Jackson at the Ravens’ 23-yard line, and then by re-engaging a lethal short passing game. Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger finished 21-of-32 for 182 yards and two touchdowns, both in the second half.

The Steelers tend to generate pressure so well that if opposing teams want to throw downfield, if they want to use play-action, they would do best to hurry. Against that pressure Sunday, Jackson at times looked tentative, uncomfortable, mixing in nifty passes with clumsy ones.

Jackson had only started against Pittsburgh once before, in Week 5 of last season, and the Steelers treated him as if ordering Waffle House hash browns, covering and smothering and dicing him for five sacks and three interceptions. The early stages of Sunday’s game resembled a continuation of that chaos: Three plays in, Steelers linebacker Robert Spillane swooped in front of a Jackson pass and returned it 33 yards for a touchdown.

Recovering, Jackson and the Ravens opted to run instead. And run. And run. They amassed 179 first-half rushing yards against the A.F.C.’s stingiest run defense, that output nearly evenly divided among Jackson, J.K. Dobbins and Gus Edwards, whose 1-yard touchdown plunge put the Ravens ahead, 14-7.

Instead of controlling the clock, as the Steelers generally do with their efficient offense, they watched time go by from the sideline. They gained all of 65 first-half yards and went 0 for 3 on first downs.

Even though the Ravens led at halftime, they had sustained two significant losses — edge rusher Matthew Judon, who was ejected for coming into contact with an official during a skirmish, and left tackle Ronnie Stanley, who was carted off with a season-ending ankle injury. By the end of the afternoon, Baltimore had absorbed a deeper loss, in the standings.

But the good thing is — for them, for the Steelers, for football fans at large — the teams meet again in three and a half weeks, on Thanksgiving night.





No.6 article:
Our Most Dangerous Weeks Are Ahead

We are making preparations for the election to descend into bedlam.

The weeks following the election could very well be the most dangerous weeks in this country since the Civil War.

If Donald Trump should lose, he may well not concede. And he will still be president, with all the power that bestows. His supporters will likely be seething, thinking that the election has been stolen. These are seeds he has been sowing for months.

Trump will have command of the military, the Justice Department and part of the intelligence apparatus.

He already knows that the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., is investigating his dodgy finances. Trump knows he could face charges as soon as he leaves office — and he won’t be federally pardoned.

He has tasted power and can’t imagine a world in which it was withdrawn from him. A loss would be a supremely embarrassing rebuke, the first sitting president not to win re-election in 28 years.

The pandemic will still be raging, but Trump, who has consistently downplayed it and tragically mismanaged it, will feel absolutely no obligation to contain it.

He will be wounded, afraid and dangerous.

People are already preparing for hostility and violence.

The Washington Post reported in early October that “the Justice Department is planning to station officials in a command center at F.B.I. headquarters to coordinate the federal response to any disturbances or other problems with voting that may arise across the country.”

Police departments across the country are preparing to confront unrest. Banks and apartment buildings are bracing for violence.

As The Washington Post reported Friday, “The National Guard Bureau has established a new unit made up mostly of military policemen that could be dispatched to help quell unrest in coming days.”

Stores are being boarded up. As The New York Times reported Friday:

“In a show of just how volatile the situation seems to the industry, 120 representatives from 60 retail brands attended a video conference this week hosted by the National Retail Federation, which involved training for store employees on how to de-escalate tensions among customers, including those related to the election. The trade group also hired security consultants who have prepped retailers about which locations around the country are likely to be the most volatile when the polls close.”

Facebook is even preparing for violence. As The Wall Street Journal reported last week, teams at the company “have planned for the possibility of trying to calm election-related conflict in the U.S. by deploying internal tools designed for what it calls ‘at-risk’ countries,” employing tactics they have “previously used in countries including Sri Lanka and Myanmar.”

This, like so much else during the Trump presidency, is unprecedented and outrageous. How is it that we are making so many preparations for a presidential election to descend into bedlam?

The Brookings Institution sees the prospect of violence being particularly high. As it pointed out Tuesday:

“The broader pool of potential extremists has grown during Covid, with Americans at home and online, consuming vast quantities of propaganda and disinformation. So even if a relatively small percentage of people might actually mobilize to violence, the milieu from which they will emerge has metastasized significantly. The November election is increasingly perceived as a ‘winner-take-all’ contest, with no room for those who don’t identify with a specific side.”

And the appetite and acceptance for violence among the public is growing. As researchers wrote in Politico early last month, “Our research, which we’re reporting here for the first time, shows an upswing in the past few months in the number of Americans — both Democrats and Republicans — who said they think violence would be justified if their side loses the upcoming presidential election.”

All of the fears and preparation could well be for naught. We could have a clear winner, the country could peacefully accept it and Donald Trump could submit to a peaceful transfer of power.

But no signs point in that direction.

Trump has openly resisted saying that he will guarantee a peaceful transfer of power and he has repeatedly told his supporters that the only way he can lose is if the election is stolen from him.

He has signaled in every way possible that he plans to stay in power at all costs. On Saturday, he said the Supreme Court will help secure a victory for him if he’s not declared the winner on election night: “If we win, if we win on Tuesday or, thank you very much Supreme Court, shortly thereafter.” He may have been speaking sarcastically here, but the statement fits a pattern: Trump doesn’t care if he “wins” ugly or unfairly, a win is a win. He doesn’t care if it could rip this country apart because he has never cared about the health and stability of the nation.

Everyone in Trump World is a tool to be used by him, to further his ambitions, to fill his coffers, to stroke his ego, to protect his power.

Trump will watch his country burn and warm himself by the blaze.





No.7 article:
A Typhoon Spared the Philippine Capital. Will Manila Be So Lucky Next Time?

With climate change heightening the Philippines’ risk of natural disaster, the country is braced for the next catastrophe.

BANGKOK — The Philippines was braced for the worst. When Typhoon Goni made landfall in the disaster-plagued nation on Sunday morning, with sustained winds of 135 miles per hour, it ranked as the most powerful storm to hit the Southeast Asian nation in years.

Manila, the low-lying, crowded capital, looked to be squarely in the typhoon’s path. Roughly 1.5 million families in the city live near railroad tracks, garbage dumps and fetid waterways, their flimsy shacks and shantytowns defenseless against every wind gust and storm surge.

But by day’s end, Goni, known locally as Rolly, appeared to have largely bypassed the capital, with no fatalities reported there. At least 16 people were confirmed to have died from the typhoon in the Bicol region southeast of the capital, according to the regional Office of Civil Defense, with three people reported missing. Rivers overflowed, tree branches flew and wet concrete-like mudflows poured down the slopes of a volcano.

“Thanks be to God we were largely spared,” said Francisco Domagoso, Manila’s mayor. “But we are one with the people of the Bicol region, who bore the brunt of the storm.”

Late on Sunday evening, the national weather agency said that Goni had made its way across Luzon, the Philippines’ most populous island, and would weaken to a tropical storm within 24 hours.

The Philippines may have been lucky with Goni, the 18th typhoon to strike the country this year. But it remains starkly exposed to a multitude of natural disasters.

The country is situated on the so-called Ring of Fire, a seismically active swath encircling the Pacific Ocean that is roiled by earthquakes and volcanoes. Typhoons regularly batter the Philippine archipelago, packed with more than 100 million people. Deadly floods and landslides are common.

And now climate change is exacerbating the Philippines’ exposure to natural disasters, making it one of the most vulnerable countries on the planet, scientists say.

As sea-surface temperatures rise, the Philippines’ positioning in warm ocean waters means the country is being subjected to both bigger and more frequent tropical storms. Residents of densely populated slums are particularly imperiled. So are miners and farmers who excavate and till mountainous earth, creating slippery, muddy conditions in which torrents of soil can bury people alive.

Mass deforestation, including the destruction of mangroves along the coastlines, has torn away natural barriers to wind and water.

The Asian Development Bank says that more than 23,000 people in the Philippines died from natural hazards from 1997 to 2016 as the warming planet brought more powerful storms.

“Climate change is a big international idea, but we are facing this on the local level and we aren’t equipped with enough progressive vision for it,” said Dakila Kim P. Yee, a sociologist at the University of the Philippines Visayas Tacloban College

Still, the country has honed a resilient national character as it confronts disaster after disaster, Mr. Yee said.

After Typhoon Haiyan, one of the most powerful tropical storms on record, churned across the Philippines in 2013, killing more than 6,300 people, local governments began drawing up better evacuation plans. That catastrophic storm destroyed or severely damaged more than four million homes, and the widespread looting that followed it devastated the university city of Tacloban.

Nearly 1 million people were evacuated before Goni made landfall on Sunday, disaster management officials said.

Such mass efforts, which took place even as some typhoon evacuation centers were being used to house coronavirus patients, surely saved lives. But the building damage sustained by Goni in the Bicol region, with roofs sheared off buildings and torrents of water uprooting entire houses, will become clearer as day breaks on Monday and the displaced make their way back to their homes.

Compounding matters, ABS-CBN, a popular news network that offered crucial free TV and radio broadcasts, had been ordered off the air in August, after President Rodrigo Duterte accused it of bias. Many Filipinos in remote provinces had seen the network as a lifeline as they struggled to cope with emergencies like the coronavirus pandemic. Without ABS-CBN’s broadcasts, some of those most jeopardized by Goni were left without access to critical information.

In Albay Province, one of the worst-hit areas of Bicol, A.J. Miraflor, a resident, said the typhoon had been “powerful and winds were howling.”

On social media, Mr. Miraflor posted dramatic images from his mobile phone of people stranded on their rooftops as floodwaters swept through the village of Cagsawa. But another typhoon in 2006, which killed 2,000 people, had been even worse, Mr. Miraflor said, a reminder that Goni is no isolated event.

Last week, 22 people were killed as Typhoon Molave cut a path across the same region that Goni powered through.

If Goni had maintained its ferocity and taken a different path, the damage would have been hard to fathom. Up to 20 million people might have been affected, said Ricardo Jalad, the head of the national disaster agency.

Before the storm system was downgraded in intensity, the national weather agency had warned of “complete roof failure on many residences and industrial buildings,” as well as “total damage to banana plantations.” All signs and billboards in affected areas were in danger of being blown down, and electricity and telecommunications services would be “severely disrupted,” the agency said.

Such warnings will now be reserved for when — not if — the next big storm comes to the Philippines. The national weather agency is already warning that another tropical storm, Atsani, will soon be following in Goni’s footsteps.





No.8 article:
Dan Baum, Journalist, Author and Long-Form Tweeter, Dies at 64

He was a Twitter pioneer in writing at length, 140 characters at a time, about losing his job at The New Yorker. He also wrote an admired book on New Orleans.

Dan Baum had been a successful freelance writer and author for 17 years when he landed a staff writing job at The New Yorker. He called it “the ne plus ultra of journalism gigs.”

Mr. Baum was initially elated and praised for his work, but things soured, and he was fired. In sharing his side of the story, though, he turned not to his customary outlet, a magazine, but to a fledgling online platform called Twitter.

Over three days in May 2009, he tapped out his saga in more than 350 tweets, each less than 140 characters.

The media world, which always paid close attention to Twitter, hailed the result as a breakthrough in storytelling: Not only was Mr. Baum pulling back the curtain on an august legacy publication; he was also unspooling his tale in real time, one tweet after another. (He learned as he went along not to do things like break up sentences between entries.)

Mr. Baum ended up producing one of the first examples of what is now called a Twitter thread, in which multiple tweets are linked together to provide more information than can be captured in one entry; today, entire novels are written in threads.

He died on Oct. 8 at his home in Boulder, Colo., at 64. His wife and writing partner, Margaret L. Knox, said the cause was glioblastoma, a form of brain cancer.

Mr. Baum led an itinerant life, traveling the world, and was bitten early by the writing bug. He reported for several newspapers, including The Wall Street Journal; wrote countless magazine articles for The New Yorker, Rolling Stone, Wired, Playboy and The New York Times Magazine, among other publications; and produced four well-regarded books of nonfiction.

His most acclaimed was “Nine Lives: Death and Life in New Orleans” (2009). He had embedded himself in the city after Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005 and wrote a near-constant stream of articles and, later, blog posts, for The New Yorker, chronicling the devastation and harrowing human tragedies as well as the triumphs.

Captivated by the city, he stayed on and began writing the book. It covered four decades of New Orleans history, from Hurricane Betsy in 1965 to Katrina, and tracked the city’s changes through the lives of nine characters, among them a cop, a transsexual barkeep and a trumpet-playing gynecologist who became a coroner.

In his review for The New York Times, Dwight Garner wrote that he had been skeptical when he first picked up the book, but that “by the final third of ‘Nine Lives,’ as the water begins pouring into the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans, I was weeping like an idiot.”

It was around this time in 2009, a couple of years after being fired by The New Yorker, that Mr. Baum took to Twitter to recount that experience. He concluded that he had failed to grasp the magazine’s culture and had overstepped his bounds.

His many new followers on Twitter were riveted — less, it seemed, by his airing of the magazine’s inner workings than by how he was reimagining Twitter.

“This is sort of a watershed moment for Twitter, and storytelling in general, isn’t it?” Brett Michael Dykes wrote on Gawker. “I mean, here’s a guy, a widely respected writer, using Twitter’s 140 character ‘tweets’ to weave a bit of an epic story.”

“I certainly can’t recall anything else of the sort happening previously,” Mr. Dykes added.

In a 2009 interview with the online literary magazine The Rumpus, Mr. Baum was asked why he had chosen Twitter. He said he had been intrigued by the idea of “micro-serialization.” And, he added, he liked the way writing in small chunks “turns prose into a kind of free verse.”

“It changes your word choice and imposes a certain poetic rigor on the language,” he added. “I’ve enjoyed that.”

Daniel Seth Baum was born on Feb. 18, 1956, in Orange, N.J. His father, Seymour, was an executive with Colgate-Palmolive. His mother, Audrey Bernice (Goldberger) Baum, was a social worker.

After graduating from New York University with a degree in history in 1978, he started to travel and settled in Berlin, by which time he had written what Ms. Knox described in an interview as four bad novels.

Still, she said, he knew he wanted to be a writer.

After stints at The Anchorage Times in Alaska, The Asian Wall Street Journal and The Wall Street Journal in New York, he joined The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, where he met Ms. Knox, who was also a reporter.

They married in 1987 and the next day moved to Zimbabwe, where they established a news bureau and freelanced for various news outlets. They would make future homes in Missoula, Mont., rural Mexico, Watsonville, Calif., and Boulder.

In addition to his wife, Mr. Baum is survived by a daughter, Rosa Baum, as well as his father and a brother, Andrew. Another brother, Michael, died in 1985.

For many years, Mr. Baum and Ms. Knox collaborated on writing projects that carried only Mr. Baum’s byline, though she was a full partner, he wrote on their website. They wanted their writing to speak with a strong individual voice, and they thought a double byline would undermine that goal.

Their first book, “Smoke and Mirrors: The War on Drugs and the Politics of Failure” (1996), looked at federal drug policy. Next came “Citizen Coors: An American Dynasty” (2000), a saga of the secretive brewing family. After the New Orleans book, they wrote “Gun Guys: A Road Trip” (2013), about Mr. Baum’s experience as a gun enthusiast and hunter.

That book came out just after the mass killing of schoolchildren at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut, and Mr. Baum was often sought out by the news media as someone who wanted to promote safety among gun owners.

The experience, in such a polarized environment, exhausted him, Ms. Knox said, and they moved to France so that he could recharge his batteries. “We were turning 60,” she said. “He wanted to turn a corner and make work more fun.”

He and Ms. Knox later joined Human Rights Watch at its headquarters in New York. They edited reports about Latin America and then moved to Mexico City, where they conducted research and interviewed people who had been deported from the United States.

When they joined Human Rights Watch, Mr. Baum began to write a near-daily email for his friends. He called it “Third Act Trouble,” a phrase taken from the dramatist Clifford Odets, who was obsessed with how plays often seemed to lose their way in the final act. Mr. Baum was concerned about his own “aimless wandering” at this stage of life.

In his inaugural email, he said he would be tracing his and Ms. Knox’s transition from 28 years as freelancers to employees of a large organization. “But the overarching story,” he added, “is of an often hapless effort to conquer Third Act Trouble. Come along for the ride.”





No.9 article:
Virus Rate Fell to 2% From 34% in One Area. But Did Anything Change?

Concerns have arisen that communities may be manipulating coronavirus positivity rates by discouraging sick people from being tested.

The urgent calls from doctors to the county department of health began in mid-October, shortly after skyrocketing coronavirus cases had brought a state-imposed lockdown to the community north of New York City.

“Some patients are refusing testing because they do not want D.O.H. bothering them,” a doctor said in a message for the county health commissioner on Oct. 13.

A day later, a caller to a state complaint hotline said in a message, “I would also like to report that there is a widespread effort from the community’s leadership to discourage Covid testing.”

Two weeks after a flurry of similar messages, the positivity rate in Kiryas Joel, an ultra-Orthodox Jewish village in Orange County, plummeted from 34 percent — the highest in the state — to just 2 percent. Last week, citing “dramatic progress” on the rate, the governor eased restrictions in the zone.

The course of events in Orange County has raised deep suspicions among some health experts about the reliability of the data, reflecting broader concerns about whether top officials in New York and around the country are tracking the outbreak in ways that may not accurately capture how much the virus is spreading.

Epidemiologists suggest that officials should rely on many factors when making decisions about reopening, including interviews with health care providers, hospital admission rates and contact tracing, as well as the positivity rate, which is the percent of people who have tested positive over a particular time period.

In New York, senior officials say they use all that data, and refer to the positivity rates as merely a lead measure and shorthand.

Still, the positivity rate has become the de facto gold standard of publicly highlighted measures. For example, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Bill de Blasio and other officials in New York repeatedly refer to the rate in pronouncements and news releases to give the public a sense of how efforts to combat the virus are going.

The concern over misleading positivity rates has come to a head in regards to Kiryas Joel, also called the Town of Palm Tree, a densely populated Hasidic village of 26,000 people that is about 50 miles north of New York City, and among the poorest communities in the state.

In Orange County, the local health commissioner, Dr. Irina Gelman, said she was concerned about easing restrictions because she had serious doubts about whether the suggested decline in virus cases was real. She said that even though more people in the ultra-Orthodox community were reporting to doctors with symptoms or exposure to the virus, fewer of them were agreeing to be tested, reducing the positivity rate.

“This is an alarming trend,” Dr. Gelman said. “Refusing tests, clearly, makes it very difficult as far as gauging the infection prevalence rate within the community.”

“To go from a 34 percent positivity rate down to a 4 percent positivity rate when the “micro-cluster/ hot zone” schools did not actually shut down — and just converted to “child care”— is something many people here are skeptical about,” Dr. Gelman said in an email, citing an infection rate that then dropped to 2 percent.

Michael D. Paduch, the Democratic minority leader in the Orange County Legislature, said that he thought the steep drop in the positivity rate “seemed unusual,” and that he hoped that the testing was being reported correctly to the state.

“The issue in Kiryas Joel, I don’t think is under control,” he said, adding that the legislature as a whole was concerned about it. “More needs to be done to make sure that the protocol for the virus is held up and done correctly.”

Dr. Gelman and public health experts emphasized that the positivity rate does not indicate what percentage of people in a specific area are infected. It simply states the infection rate among those who have been tested.

Through increased or decreased testing, or by selectively choosing who does and doesn’t get tested, this number can fluctuate sharply, giving many health experts pause as to how much it really says about infection in a specific area.

“When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure,” said Rebecca Lee Smith, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Illinois who also helps run the university’s Covid-19 control strategy. “Once you have put out a single measure as a target, people will figure out how to game that measure.”

The governor’s office defended its use of the positivity data, stressing that it had made the decision to lift the restrictions in Orange County based on numerous factors.

“While there may be anecdotal evidence of people declining to be tested, it’s junk data because it tells us nothing about whether a person is positive or not, and it actually has the potential to create undue fear,” Beth Garvey, special counsel to Mr. Cuomo, said in an email.

“The state’s approach to taming the virus has been based on facts and hard numbers — not assumptions — and there is no reliable metric that we are ignoring or not considering,” she added.

Gareth Rhodes, a member of New York State’s Covid-19 Task Force, said the state examines the number of “hospitalizations, the testing volume, and consultation with the local health departments. No one data point is sufficient.”

The uptick in Orange County was part of several clusters of cases that began to emerge in the region in communities with large populations of ultra-Orthodox Jewish residents, where many residents were not abiding by social distancing and mask-wearing rules.

In New York City, Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens, which were ravaged by Covid-19 in March and April, began to see positivity rates climb to between 3 and 8 percent in September, a notable increase from the 1 percent citywide rate.

In Rockland County, another affected area north of the city, the positivity rate in one ZIP code in late September surged as high as 30 percent.

These rising numbers led to state-imposed restrictions, including the closing of nonessential business and schools and strictly limiting the capacity at houses of worship. Any easing of these restrictions would be based in part on these areas lowering the positivity rate.

Many in the Orthodox community pushed back, and on Friday, Governor Cuomo announced in a compromise that schools, even in red zones, could reopen, if students and faculty test negative initially and weekly testing shows the school’s positivity rate remains low.

Some members of the ultra-Orthodox community in Orange County rejected the idea that there was any effort to manipulate the positivity rate, and argued that they were being targeted because of their religious beliefs.

“Always in everything, ‘It’s the Jews’ fault,’ they are trying to pin everything on us,” said Moshe Brach, an ultra-Orthodox liaison for the Orange Regional Medical Center in Middletown, N.Y., and a volunteer emergency medical technician with the Hatzolah ambulance service. 

But he acknowledged that several family members of infected people whom he recently had visited as part of Hatzolah’s “Covid brigade,” a home-health check service, declined to get tested for the virus. He dismissed it as insignificant.

“If someone doesn’t want to do a test, one or two people maybe, it doesn’t mean that the whole village wants to do it,” Mr. Brach said.

Dr. Gelman said her contact tracers were sometimes stymied in their efforts in the community. For example, in several recent cases, school administrators at ultra-Orthodox schools in Kiryas Joel that remained open despite the lockdown order, did not respond to contact tracers’ calls after children at school tested positive.

“Clearly these are not isolated incidents, where there are one or two or three individuals that presented over the course of a month or two that all of a sudden declined testing,” Dr. Gelman said. “This is a lot more widespread.”

Drastic drops in the positivity like the one in Orange County are highly unusual, said Dr. Jennifer Nuzzo, an epidemiologist at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. She said the situation may reflect a lesson epidemiologists have learned from countless previous outbreaks and pandemics.

“If public health measures are seen as punitive,” she said, “you will drive cases underground.”

In the Brooklyn “red zone,” the rates have also dropped, but far more gradually: In the last week of September, the test positivity rate in the Brooklyn area with the highest level of restriction was 7.7 percent. On Oct. 29, the rolling average in the area was about 4 percent, a state official said.

Last week, New York City health officials said that they had also heard similar concerning reports of test refusal in the city’s red zones.

Alarmed at what she was hearing from doctors on the ground, the Orange County health commissioner, Dr. Gelman, said she contacted the state infectious disease division and the state health commissioner, Dr. Howard Zucker.

She said she requested that Dr. Zucker approve an order that would require doctors in Orange County to report when people with Covid-19 symptoms decline testing.

The state has not approved the order, said Justin Rodriguez, the county spokesman. State health officials were concerned that such an order could lead people to assume that everyone who declined testing was positive, which may not be the case, and discourage people from seeking medical care, according to a senior state health official.

Daily testing in Orange County’s “red zone” increased after the state’s lockdown orders went in effect, to a high of 801 tests, with 13 positives, on Oct. 22, from 57 tests, with 21 positives, on Oct. 5, according to the New York State Department of Health.

Senior state administration officials said that they felt confident that the viral rates in the area had dropped enough to warrant the area to be downgraded from a red to an orange zone, which still restricts nonessential businesses from opening and includes strict limits on worship services.

In addition to the lower positivity rate, the raw numbers of people testing positive dropped and the hospitalization rate in the area had flattened, officials said.

But Dr. Gelman said that testing required of preoperative or pregnant patients, as well as community testing drives aimed at bringing out nonsymptomatic patients, appeared to be making up the increase.

Gedalye Szegedin, the town administrator of Kiryas Joel, said that there was “definitely no communal or organized effort not to test.”

“The communal effort is to test everybody as often as you can, which is basically once a week, and that just brought the numbers down,” he added.

There had been a spike in the virus beginning in September, likely driven by people coming from Israel, he said. But of the 55 community members who had been sent to the hospital for severe symptoms in this wave, only seven were still in the hospital, with one death. He added there had been no new hospitalizations for severe Covid in the last six days.

“It is very much under control now,” he said.





No.10 article:
Rescuers Race Against Time to Find Survivors After Quake in Turkey

After the deadly tremor rocked the country’s western coast, razing buildings in the city of Izmir and killing dozens of people, hope began to fade for some of those still trapped under the rubble.

The death toll from a major earthquake off the coast of Turkey reached at least 62 on Sunday, with more than 900 others injured, as rescuers continued to dig through tons of rubble in the city of Izmir in the diminishing hope of finding more survivors.

The magnitude 7.0 tremor, centered in the Aegean Sea, hit Friday afternoon, rocking Izmir, a city in western Turkey that is the country’s third-most populous, after Istanbul and the capital, Ankara. As well as at least 58 deaths in Turkey, at least two more people were killed on the Greek island of Samos, the authorities there said.

Anxious family members of those still missing kept vigil around the wrecked husks of buildings they had called home just a few days ago, many of them wailing in agony as they prayed for the best and feared for the worst.

Along with the devastation in Izmir, the quake created a small tsunami about 30 miles to the southwest in the area of Sigacik, a coastal town around 10 miles from the epicenter.

An aid operation included the dispatch of thousands of tents, beds and blankets to the area for survivors who had lost their homes or were unable to return to their buildings as powerful aftershocks reverberated.

Observing rescue attempts in Izmir, the Turkish health minister, Fahrettin Koca, told reporters that eight people injured by the quake were in intensive care, three of them in critical condition. He said it was difficult to say how many more might still be trapped.

“We have estimates, but I don’t want to share them to avoid speculation,” he said.

Some of the worst damage was in Bayrakli, a central district of Izmir. In one building, rescuers recovered the bodies of three members of a family on Sunday morning, including a toddler.

One rescue worker, Tahsin Kaymak, who was part of the team that found the family, slumped nearby in tears.

“We found them trapped,” Mr. Kaymak said in a TV interview. “I don’t think I am able to describe how I felt at that moment.”

“Bodies passing from one hand to another, touching your hand too,” he added. “It was a 2-year-old child.”

Some were luckier. Ahmet Citim, 70, was pulled alive from the ruins of another building about 33 hours after the tremor, TV footage showed. He was in stable condition, Mr. Koca, the health minister, noted on Twitter.

Rescue workers said the building that Mr. Citim was pulled from had collapsed in a way that had increased the chances of finding people alive, with the structure creating spaces for people to survive in as it tumbled.

But Basaran Aksu, who was leading a team of miners involved in the rescue work, said that a building where his group had been working had disintegrated, leaving little hope that anyone inside would be found alive.

“It was a horrible structure. It collapsed so quickly that people had no chance of escape,” he said.

“When you press a pillar, one of the units that should have been the strongest, it turns into dust,” Mr. Aksu said in a phone interview, referring to the building’s construction. “It was a very difficult mission. We worked nonstop.”

Although shaken often by tremors, Izmir has many older buildings that are not quake-resistant. Earthquakes often show up the poor construction quality in Turkey, with some structures toppling easily, while others — sometimes right next door — remain largely unaffected.

A total of 16 bodies were recovered from the building where Mr. Aksu’s team had been working. He estimated that 15 others might still be under the debris.

So far, at least 104 people have been pulled from ruins alive, officials said. Mr. Koca praised the dedication of those involved in the search.

“Our rescue workers are in an extraordinary effort,” Mr. Koca said. “This work is ongoing round the clock.”





No.11 article:
Quotation of the Day: ‘Most Police Chiefs Are Worried’: Departments Prepare for Election-Related Threats

“I have never seen a threat environment as dynamic, complex and dangerous as the one we are in right now.”

JOHN D. COHEN, a former Homeland Security counterterrorism coordinator, speaking about the challenge police departments face in preparing for possible violence or disruptions to the election.





No.12 article:
He Already Saw the Election as Good vs. Evil. Then His Tractor Burned.

In Nebraska, President Trump’s supporters hope he wins a second term, and that they get four more years of feeling like the country’s leader understands and defends them.

HENDERSON, Neb. — Jonathan Rempel has never been a loudmouth around town about his politics, but his views are clear when he asks rhetorical questions like, “Have you ever got a job from a poor person?” Or when he says that taxes are a form of extortion. They show up on Facebook, where some of his posts support gun rights and criticize a welfare state.

It was even possible to tell his political outlook from across a field, from the two “Trump 2020” flags that he had hoisted above his combine — until a couple of weeks ago, when a fire destroyed much of his farm equipment.

In Mr. Rempel’s farming community of Henderson and in the countryside that makes up much of the majority Republican state of Nebraska, people say that President Trump represents their deep convictions. And those strongly held beliefs exist in a good versus evil framework in which many see issues like abortion, immigration and what is to them the trade-exploiting, virus-spreading nation of China in the starkest of terms.

Nearly four years ago, in his election night victory speech, Mr. Trump pledged to fight for the “hard-working men and women who love their country and want a better, brighter future for themselves and for their family.”

“The forgotten men and women of our country,” he promised back then, “will be forgotten no longer.”

The president’s supporters in places like rural Nebraska say they feel remembered. To them, these four years have brought a sense of belonging in a country led by someone who sticks up for, and understands, their most cherished beliefs. To the more than 50 percent of Americans who disapprove of the president, Mr. Trump can represent division and dishonesty. In Henderson, and many places like it, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign pitch that he is fighting for the soul of the nation simply doesn’t resonate. People here would view its soul as being in jeopardy if he triumphed.

Thousands of Mr. Trump’s backers showed their devotion to him last week as they solemnly streamed against a chilly autumn wind, some traveling hours, to hear him speak at a campaign event in Omaha, one of a series of whistle-stop rallies across the country where supporters have come together as a single denomination certain of one another’s values.

“Always look where I am,” a man coached a young girl in coveralls, telling her to stay close as they held hands and wove through the Omaha crowd waiting for Mr. Trump. “But these are Trump supporters. You don’t have to worry.”

That sense of Trumpian kinship permeates rural areas like Henderson, population about 1,000, with its two-block downtown, fiery red oak trees, silver grain elevators and artwork on the side of a building off Main Street that reads “some bigger, none better.”

It’s what made the phone call Mr. Rempel received about two weeks ago from fire officials as he and his wife were readying their children for school all the more shocking. His farm equipment was in flames. The combine, a tractor and two semitrailer trucks parked in a corn field south of town apparently had been set on fire.

“I said, ‘No, that’s not possible,’” Mr. Rempel, a fourth-generation farmer, recalled, describing his disbelief that his equipment had been destroyed and his corn harvest put in jeopardy.

Mr. Rempel won’t speculate on a motive for what he believes was arson; the State Fire Marshal has said only that it is investigating the incident.

The charred remains of his farm vehicles sit in a field surrounded for miles by tilled prairie. A blackened Trump flag lies crumpled at the base of a scorched tractor. Mr. Rempel had been so certain they were safe, he left the keys in the ignition.

Though it is unclear how the fire started, the news about it startled a community that believes it shares a common value system. The fact that one vehicle was outfitted with Trump flags has led some residents and some of the more than 1,700 people who commented on Mr. Rempel’s Facebook post about the blaze to declare the fire politically motivated.

It’s a sentiment also expressed by top Republicans in the state. Gov. Pete Ricketts brought up the incident when asked at a news conference about vandalism to pro-Trump signs, calling anyone who would do such a thing “anti-American” and “people who hate our country.” Senator Ben Sasse, whose recent leaked remarks criticizing President Trump were viewed by many Nebraska Republicans as blasphemy, also called the incident “abhorrent.”

For his part, Mr. Rempel refuses to speculate about a motive, but here in Henderson,  a certain fear is being whispered: The fire-starters are aligned with antifa, coming from the cities to attack their way of life.

“Whenever you see something on fire that was lit on purpose, or whenever you see a business destroyed, whenever you see somebody making a point through violence, it’s evil,” Mr. Rempel said. “And evil destroys.”

Like most other states, Nebraska is cleaved by an urban-rural divide. Mr. Trump won overwhelming support from the state as a whole. But people in Nebraska’s two major cities tend to vote more liberally than those in rural areas. Mr. Trump won in Omaha’s Second Congressional District in 2016, but Barack Obama won in 2008. The district’s winner picks up a single electoral vote in a state that, unlike most others, splits its votes, which could play a pivotal role in a close election.

Omaha is 117 miles from York County, where Henderson is situated and where Mr. Trump in 2016 won by a landslide. Most people in the county say they are voting for him again — and most plan to go to the polls in person on Tuesday like they always do on Election Day.

“I like what he stands for. He’s against abortion. He’s against evil. He’s against higher taxes,” said Pat Goossen, who owns The Petal Pusher, a flower shop on Henderson’s Main Street. “He shares my values. I don’t want higher taxes. I don’t want our jobs going out.”

Ms. Goossen watched the violence that accompanied some of the protests in the wake of George Floyd’s death on the nightly news. The images made it seem like entire cities were on fire. This summer violent protests broke out in Omaha, where a Black man was killed by a white business owner as people marched against racial injustice. But the protests didn’t reach Henderson.

Though the president has refused to denounce white supremacy, Ms. Goossen, who is white, like most of her neighbors in Henderson, said she couldn’t believe that the president was being tied to violent outbursts at rallies against racial injustice.

“Do you honestly think he caused the burning and the riots? Are you out of your ever-loving mind? He did not,” she said. “He was a victim of this just like the rest of us.”

Ms. Goossen and other supporters of Mr. Trump speak with reverence about the president’s plain talk, how he isn’t a typical pontificating politician, how he, a real estate mogul from New York City, can relate to all strata of society.

The president has been on job sites and spoken to workers “hauling drywall and raising steel,” said Blake Collingsworth, who runs a home-building business in Lincoln.

“You have to be for the little guy,” Mr. Collingsworth said. “He understands that part of society and how important the working person is.”

People like Tim Esch, a rancher from Spalding, remember the pain caused in the 1980s by President Jimmy Carter’s Soviet grain embargo, which sent prices of corn and wheat tumbling. Mr. Trump’s policies on trade with China have been difficult for farmers, too, he said, but will pay off in the long run.

Some of Mr. Trump’s plans haven’t worked out, he said, but his actions show that he has listened to the concerns of farmers.

“This whole China thing, Trump has done nothing but be supportive,” Mr. Esch said. 

Like Mr. Esch, many Republicans in Nebraska think the Democratic Party is using the pandemic as a political tool against the president. Cases of the coronavirus are soaring here; church prayer lists include long lists of names of those suffering. In Henderson, the virus found its way into a nursing home and has affected several families.

But on farms where the nearest home is miles away, worries about the illness seem far-off.

“I’ve got bigger problems than a virus that 99.9 percent of us can overcome without medical intervention,” said Mr. Rempel who, like most other people in the area, doesn’t routinely wear a mask when gathered with others.

Mr. Rempel enjoys the lonely feeling of being on the farm, where he can zone out in the cab of his combine or behind the wheel of his pickup, bouncing down gravel roads.

“I love being in flyover country. I love it. I embrace it,” Mr. Rempel said, walking through his rows of corn and fretting over every bent stalk. “I lived in Omaha. Nobody knew who you were. You could do whatever you wanted. You could go steal a car and run into a post and run away and nobody cares.”

Rural life, he said, offers accountability among people who share a set of values. Being around parents, grandparents, those “who take pride in you,” is grounding. It’s something he thinks is lost in big cities.

The fire has trained Mr. Rempel’s focus on the divisiveness of the country, something he said he was tired of even though he knows his views are starkly different from many people who support Mr. Biden.

“Everybody wants to put people in a box so we can decide right away if we hate you. You’re a Trump supporter! You’re a Biden supporter! We hate you!” he said. “We need to quit that as a country. You are who you are, and I am who I am, and I can love you even if I don’t agree with you.”

In Henderson, word spread quickly among the tightknit set of farmers about Mr. Rempel’s burning equipment. Everyone knew it happened at a crucial time when corn needed to be harvested and hauled to market. The urgency was all the greater for Mr. Rempel whose wife was days away from her due date with the couple’s third child.

 Neighbors and friends from church brought over casseroles and homemade cinnamon rolls. Mr. Rempel’s sister set up a GoFundMe page called “Burned Farmer” where donations have topped $100,000.

And under a silvery sky of a frigid recent dawn, a line of combines and tractors rumbled across the horizon and pulled to a stop in a gravel lot. Some two dozen farmers descended their vehicles and gathered for a prayer before they got to work. They came from neighboring farms and as far away as Colorado to help Mr. Rempel finish his harvest.

“Welcome to my life,” Mr. Rempel said, taking it all in, “where people are good.”





No.13 article:
What We Learned From Week 8 of the N.F.L. Season

Dalvin Cook shredded the Packers, the Steelers stayed undefeated and Joe Burrow and the Bengals shocked Tennessee.

A Packers home loss to lowly Minnesota. Pittsburgh toppling the Ravens in Baltimore to stay undefeated. The Dolphins and the Bengals pulling off wild upsets behind rookie quarterbacks. The theme of Week 8 was to expect the unexpected, though the Jets proved to be a stabilizing force by losing to Kansas City in as ugly a fashion as predicted.

Here’s what we learned:

The performance should, perhaps, be graded on a curve as it came against the lowly Jets, but Mahomes seemed to have more fun than he has at any point this season. He topped 400 yards passing for the fourth time in his career and added a new trick to his formidable repertoire by going with an underhanded toss to Travis Kelce for one of his five touchdown passes. Mahomes played so well that he watched his team’s final possession from the sideline, letting backup Chad Henne get some work in garbage time.

Getting his team a win over rival Green Bay trumps any individual accomplishments, but Cook carved his name into the Minnesota record books by joining Chuck Foreman and Ahmad Rashad as the only Vikings players to score four touchdowns in a single game. He was also the first player in N.F.L. history to score touchdowns on each of his team’s first four possessions.

With every performance like this it becomes harder and harder to believe that Metcalf lasted 64 picks into the 2019 draft before Seattle called his name. Metcalf stands 6 feet 4 inches, weighs 230 pounds and runs a 4.33 40-yard dash, making him the type of receiver you would create in a game of “Madden,” rather than one you’d expect to encounter in real life. Metcalf has made it his mission to outplay each of the eight wide receivers taken before him last year, but Russell Wilson thinks Metcalf can set his sights quite a bit higher. “I don’t think there is anybody better in terms of what he can do and how he’s done it,” Wilson said after Sunday’s win. “And he’s only in his second year.”

*Except when it takes more.

Steelers 28, Ravens 24 Baltimore was playing at home, and was up by 10 at halftime, only to have it all fall apart in the second half. Pittsburgh now has a commanding two-game lead over the Ravens in the ultracompetitive A.F.C. North.

Bengals 31, Titans 20 Cincinnati was again without running back Joe Mixon, but Giovani Bernard did his part in the upset with 78 yards from scrimmage and two touchdowns. The Bengals have a way to go before anyone will be scared of them, but Coach Zac Taylor got his first career win over a team with a winning record and the Bengals matched their 2019 win total (two).

Vikings 28, Packers 22 Minnesota gave Aaron Rodgers the ball down by 6 with 47 seconds remaining at Lambeau Field. All too many times in Rodgers’s career a setup like that meant Green Bay was about to storm to victory. This time, the Vikings’ beleaguered defense held strong, allowing a few completions before getting a devastating strip-sack from D.J. Wonnum that sent the ball flying and allowed the clock to run out.

Broncos 31, Chargers 30 Justin Herbert seemed well on his way to his first career winning streak by having his team leading by 24-10 entering the fourth quarter. But Los Angeles managed just two field goals in the final 15 minutes, while Denver’s Drew Lock responded with three touchdown passes, including a 1-yarder to K.J. Hamler as time expired. The score — along with the extra point — gave the Broncos a crucial win at home.

Seahawks 37, 49ers 27 It wouldn’t be Sunday if the 49ers didn’t lose a running back to injury, and they kept that bad luck going by having Tevin Coleman — who was playing in his first game since Week 2 — ruled out after hurting his knee. By the end of the game, quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo and tight end George Kittle left with injuries as well.

Colts 41, Lions 21 Jordan Wilkins picked up the bulk of the Colts’ yardage on the ground, but his fellow running back Nyheim Hines stole the show with a pair of receiving touchdowns, each of which he celebrated with gymnastlike floor routines in the end zone.

Chiefs 35, Jets 9 After failing to cover an outrageous 19.5-point spread in this blowout, the Jets fell to 0-8 for just the second time in franchise history, a feat that matched the 1996 Jets, who finally won in Week 9. A “Monday Night Football” matchup against the reeling Patriots is theoretically the team’s best bet for a win for this year’s Jets as well, though even that is far from a given.

Dolphins 28, Rams 17 Miami didn’t get big offensive yardage the way it did with Ryan Fitzpatrick under center, but the team increased its winning streak to three games, outscoring opponents by 95-34 in that stretch.

Bills 24, Patriots 21 Josh Allen was limited once again, and Buffalo barely held off New England despite the Patriots missing several key players. The Bills have a solid lead in the A.F.C. East, but it’s worth noting that their point differential for the season is -1, while the second-place Dolphins are +58.

Saints 26, Bears 23 Wil Lutz won the game in overtime with a 35-yard field goal, but the lasting memory from this one will be wide receiver Javon Wims slapping at safety Chauncey Gardner-Johnson’s helmet before unloading for a few seemingly unprovoked punches. Wims paid for the aggression by having Janoris Jenkins ride him like a bull and was subsequently ejected.

Raiders 16, Browns 6 A chilly day in Cleveland kept things remarkably quiet in a matchup of two teams mostly known for high-scoring games. Somewhat surprisingly, Las Vegas looked far more comfortable grinding things out than Cleveland did, getting 128 yards on the ground from running back Josh Jacobs on a day when neither team’s quarterback threw for even 125 yards.

Eagles 23, Cowboys 9 There was nothing exciting or entertaining about this game that featured six combined turnovers including an intentional safety. Philadelphia won mostly by default — and in doing so took a fairly large lead in the N.F.C. East with a 3-4-1 record.





No.14 article:
What Happens if Neither Trump Nor Biden Concedes?

Our system offers many offramps from the road to disaster. Whether we take one is another question.

With a president refusing to commit to a peaceful transition of power, a number of commentators have been sounding the alarm about a “rickety” U.S. electoral system seen as uniquely vulnerable to a postelection crisis. Legal scholars and a group called the Transition Integrity Project have been examining the ways in which the machinery could fail, and the nightmare scenarios gamed out are hair-raising. But while looking at points of possible legal failure is a useful exercise, it neglects an important question: Who has the power to concede?

Ultimately, all democratic transitions are based on one side being willing to concede power to another. Without a concession at some stage, power must be allocated by force: Either the military must decide, or there is civil war. There is growing concern that the United States may be arriving at a moment where a concession is no longer achievable — but if this is the case, this is ultimately a problem with the state of American politics, not its legal machinery.

To the extent that the electoral machinery matters, the American system is in many ways surprisingly robust. In ordinary presidential systems elsewhere, an election commission announces the outcome. Then, the political spotlight shifts immediately to the defeated candidate, who must make the crucial decision: Will they accept the result? It is a democracy’s most defining and most perilous moment.

By comparison, America’s electoral machinery, for all its oddities and flaws, offers greater systemic safeguards. What elsewhere is a single decision by an individual is in the United States spread out over up to two and a half months, set within a labyrinthine array of legal procedures — procedures that vest the power to concede in a vast number of actors across the constitutional system.

Any presidential election in the United States takes place in two stages: the vote-counting stage at the state level ahead of the Electoral College vote in mid-December, and a second stage in January when Congress counts the electoral votes.

The first stage involves innumerable local and state officials and courts. If even a small number of these actors break partisan ranks, they can effectively concede the election: a governor that certifies results supporting the opposing party, a judicial ruling that both sides agree to obey.

State legislatures in the United States have an untested reserve power that allows them to ignore their state’s vote and appoint electors themselves. This has been portrayed as a grave danger to the system, providing yet another way for a presidential election to go off the rails. But it also serves to imbue even more actors within the system with the power to concede. A very small group of state legislators can break partisan ranks and yield an election on behalf of a presidential candidate.

The 2000 election was arguably the closest in history, decided by Florida by a margin of one one-hundredth of one percent, so close that we will never know who the true winner of the state was: Media recounts months later concluded that the results would change depending on which counting method was used. Even so, a concession occurred before the second stage.

That next stage, when Congress convenes in January to count the electoral votes, provides further opportunities for concession. If a state’s electoral votes are disputed, the House and Senate meet separately to adjudicate the controversy. A potentially small number of representatives or senators can break rank, conceding the election by agreeing to resolve the dispute in favor of the other party. There is a potentially dangerous legal ambiguity here: If the House and Senate arrive at different decisions, the law governing the proceedings is unclear about how to reconcile them, with the potential for an unresolvable constitutional deadlock. But while legally dangerous, politically this ambiguity — along with the deadline of Inauguration Day — only serves to ratchet up the pressure to fold. The vice-president, who presides over the vote count, may have a last opportunity to concede a disputed election by choosing to resolve this ambiguity in favor of the opposing party. The process culminates in an official pronouncement of the next duly elected president by the vice-president, with the speaker of the House by his side.

Only once has a disputed electoral vote count reached the second stage. In the 1876 election, Congress invented a procedure to resolve the crisis, punting the disputes to an appointed commission.

The House and Senate could vote on the commission’s recommendation — but if the two houses disagreed, the commission’s decision would stand. The commission first recommended, on an 8-to-7 partisan vote, that Florida’s disputed electoral votes be allocated to the Republican candidate, Rutherford B. Hayes. But while the Republican Senate endorsed the recommendation, the Democratic House rejected it. The pivotal moment came immediately afterward: With the speaker of the House at his side, the vice-president announced that the commission’s decision stood. The Democrats accepted the call; they allowed the count to continue.

This was the first crucial part of concession. A few weeks later, the vice-president, with the speaker at his side, would oversee the completion of the count, and proclaim Hayes as president. A threat of chaos after Inauguration Day was the Democrats’ only remaining weapon. Hayes provided certain reassurances, though the nature of those reassurances — the “Compromise of 1877” — is still disputed by historians today. Among them, however, appears to have been a promise regarding three Southern states where Black Republicans still held political power, protected by federal troops. Following 1877, the troops’ protection was withdrawn and white Democrats took control, with lasting consequences.

America’s electoral machinery provides many, many opportunities to find concession. But fundamentally, it still must be one of the parties that defers. Candidates must show a willingness to step back from the precipice. The nightmare scenarios necessarily presume that not only might a candidate reject the election result, but that an entire party will do so at every level within the system. If this comes true, the American experiment is probably over in any case.

If the American experiment is finished, the United States’ unusually complicated electoral machinery merely guides how it would end: Elsewhere, an aspiring autocrat must corrupt or defy an electoral commission to kill a democracy. Determined Americans could kill theirs through obscurities of constitutional hardball.

Peaceful transitions of power require political will. In the end, people on one side must step back from the brink.

If history is any guide, they will.





No.15 article:
U.S. Diplomat Coughs Online, and European Allies Wonder if They Were Exposed

A senior State Department official who tested positive for the coronavirus after a trip to Europe has angered other diplomats and irritated foreign officials whom he could have infected.

WASHINGTON — As part of a diplomatic tour through Europe in late October, the State Department’s director of policy planning briefed journalists in London about the Trump administration’s strategy toward China. A video of the virtual event showed him coughing at least six times during the hourlong discussion.

The senior department official, Peter Berkowitz, held face-to-face meetings the same day with British officials. He had similar meetings with French diplomats a few days later in Paris before flying back to the United States on a commercial airline — and then testing positive for the coronavirus.

Mr. Berkowitz’s trip two weeks ago to Budapest, London and Paris has angered other State Department employees who believed it was unnecessary. It has irritated foreign officials whom he may have exposed to the virus. And it has raised questions about the limits of in-person diplomacy during a pandemic — especially as cases are again skyrocketing across the United States and Europe.

State Department protocols generally call for diplomats who are showing symptoms of the virus — including repeated coughing — to quarantine until they can be tested. Then, if they test positive for Covid-19, they are expected to remain overseas until they test negative or, in extreme cases, can be brought back to the United States with a biomedical unit.

Mr. Berkowitz did neither, according to two State Department officials with direct knowledge of his travels.

Given his senior position at the State Department — the office he leads develops strategic analysis on global trends for the secretary of state — he was not required to seek permission from his superiors before planning the tour that focused on China and a new religious rights panel that is a top priority for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

The State Department would not make Mr. Berkowitz available for an interview. His symptoms while abroad have not been previously reported, although The Washington Post earlier disclosed that Mr. Berkowitz had tested positive for the virus when he returned to the United States from Europe.

To be sure, State Department officials said diplomatic travel had been more limited during the pandemic, although they could not say by how much.

“At the end of the day, diplomacy does not wait,” said Morgan Ortagus, the department’s spokeswoman. “In many ways, the mission of the State Department is more important than ever right now as we support our allies and as we keep our adversaries at bay in the chaos.”

But the State Department has at times severely limited overseas travel even before the coronavirus, such as during the Ebola crisis and government shutdowns or other budget negotiations when diplomats were told to talk to their foreign counterparts over the phone or by video conference.

Particularly in the pandemic-induced era of Zoom calls, current and former diplomats said, it is not clear what made Mr. Berkowitz’s European trip so essential that it was worth the risk.

“What’s the cost to America’s image if we infect our foreign interlocutors?” said David Wade, the chief of staff to former Secretary of State John Kerry.

During the 2014 government shutdown, “I had a line outside my door on Mahogany Row of people who didn’t want to cancel trips,” said Mr. Wade, referring to the elegant décor of the secretary’s office suite. But he said: “If everything’s essential, nothing’s essential. Appearances on public panels aren’t the Camp David accords.”

Mr. Pompeo and Stephen E. Biegun, the deputy secretary, also continue to travel, but usually fly on government aircraft and are accompanied by State Department medical staff who constantly monitor their health and, when necessary, administer coronavirus tests as required for entering many foreign nations.

In comments to journalists aboard his plane on Oct. 2, shortly after leaving Croatia, Mr. Pompeo described a balance in deciding when face-to-face meetings were essential. He said the pandemic would help the department “be leaner and better and more efficient than we were when we came into this.”

“It’s been a little harder to travel around the world as a diplomat and see people,” Mr. Pompeo said. “It always matters how you can have private conversations that are harder to have on the phone, but at the same time, we’ve all adapted just as your businesses have, just as every company and every family has had to do.”

Last week alone, other senior State Department officials announced travel to Mexico and Nigeria. In nearly all cases, officials below the level of Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Biegun fly on commercial airlines for international travel.

Questions were raised about whether the American ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Kay Bailey Hutchison, should have flown back to the United States earlier last month after having potentially been exposed to the virus in Brussels. The State Department declined to comment on her case.

And in March, department employees complained that the American ambassador to South Africa, Lana Marks, refused to quarantine after attending an event at Mar-a-Lago, President Trump’s club in Florida, once other guests tested positive for the virus.

More than a half-dozen senior American diplomats — including the ambassador in Paris and the deputy ambassador in London — either went into quarantine or immediately took coronavirus tests after coming into contact with Mr. Berkowitz during his European tour.

Embassy officials also informed the British and French governments that Mr. Berkowitz had tested positive for the virus after meeting with them — conversations that American and foreign officials described as awkward.

British and French diplomats, the officials said, took the news graciously but exuded a whiff of exasperation about the Trump administration’s apparently cavalier attitudes toward preventing the virus’s spread.

Eric Rubin, a former American ambassador to Bulgaria and president of the union that represents career diplomats, called it “especially important for senior U.S. government leaders to set an example” to ensure that “the health and safety of their colleagues and of the public are their highest priorities.”

Under department protocols that follow travel rules set by foreign destinations, Mr. Berkowitz would have had to test negative for the virus within four days before his flight to Budapest, where he met with officials on Oct. 15. It is unclear whether he was tested again before entering Britain the next day for a stay that spanned a weekend, or before going to France on Oct. 20. He flew back to the United States two days later.

But the American Embassy in all three countries would have sought special approvals for Mr. Berkowitz to enter on official diplomatic business, without automatically having to quarantine as is required for most travelers.

He did wear masks and make efforts to socially distance himself in at least some cases when meeting with diplomats, think tank scholars, students and journalists, according to U.S. and foreign officials.

For his Oct. 19 briefing to journalists in London, sponsored by the Chatham House think tank, Mr. Berkowitz participated from his hotel room through a video call.

“I can see you have a full schedule,” Leslie Vinjamuri, the director of the U.S. and Americas programs at Chatham House, told Mr. Berkowitz at the end of the discussion, “and traveling during a pandemic is not an easy thing to do.”





No.16 article:
Caregivers Have Witnessed the Coronavirus’s Pain. How Will They Vote?

In Pennsylvania, deaths in nursing homes account for almost two-thirds of all virus-related fatalities. Some of the people working inside those facilities say the pandemic is shaping their politics.

At the Pennsylvania long-term care facility where Tisheia Frazier works, the coronavirus was a terror. During the most harrowing weeks of the pandemic in April and May, she said, four residents died in a matter of hours, and 70 people in an 180-bed unit died in less than a month.

Another caregiver, Ellen Glunt, recalled watching an older couple celebrate their 80th wedding anniversary. The wife held a wedding photo up to the glass window, as her ailing husband remained on the other side.

And then there is Bob Lohoefer, a nursing director in Philadelphia with almost 40 years of experience who has had flashbacks to the trauma rooms he worked in decades ago. At the height of the pandemic, he sat at his desk, a shield over his face, so frustrated by the government’s handling of the virus and his own organization&#x27;s bureaucracy that he thought to himself: “I don’t want to do this.”

Few groups have witnessed more of the virus’s horrors than caregivers — frontline workers who have grappled with the public health crisis while trying to help older people at risk of isolation, distress and, in some cases, death. The deaths of almost 40 percent of all Americans killed by the coronavirus have been linked to nursing homes and similar facilities — indoor spaces crowded with vulnerable adults. The share is even higher in Pennsylvania, where deaths in nursing and personal-care facilities account for close to two-thirds of coronavirus deaths statewide.

In interviews ahead of the election with more than a dozen caregivers in Pennsylvania, one of the country’s most important battleground states, they described how their experiences are shaping their political outlooks. It has hardened some convictions and transformed some caretakers, otherwise apolitical, into activists. It has forced others to reassess their beliefs about American exceptionalism, the role of government in their lives and their industry, and their decision about whom to vote for in November.

“Nine months ago, I would have told you that I was 100 percent behind Trump,” Mr. Lohoefer, a lifelong Republican, said of the president. “But as a result of Covid, I’m not 100 percent sure where I stand now.”

The problems Pennsylvania has encountered are emblematic of the nation as a whole: There were struggles to procure personal protective equipment, difficulties with rapid testing, staffing shortages, disagreements between local, state and federal government agencies and new rules piled onto an already heavily regulated industry.

And although several health care executives maintained that most of Pennsylvania’s senior care communities have relatively few confirmed Covid-19 cases, and that their staff members have performed heroically, stakeholders in every corner of caregiving agree that the pandemic exposed the country’s overburdened health care system, testing the mental, emotional and physical limits of all of the people who work in it.

“If you don’t see it, you really don’t understand how difficult it is,” said Louise Santee, a longtime caregiver who brought a curling iron to work to calm a resident who could not understand why she could no longer go to the hairdresser. “It is truly heart-wrenching when you see what this has done to our people.”

In interviews, caregivers as well as patient advocates, medical professionals, facility managers and residents themselves said they had never experienced anything like the first six months of the pandemic.

Maintenance workers were sent to hardware stores to buy disposable paint tarps that could be fashioned into gowns. Nurses pleaded with their bosses to let them lower their masks just so residents could recognize them; some forced their family members to go stay with relatives, terrified that they would bring the virus into their home. And some residents could not understand why they were suddenly cut off from their families and the world.

The chaos was so pervasive that it was nearly impossible, everyone said, to separate what was happening from the politics at play. As caretakers endured day after exhausting day, state officials set forth new regulations to govern how nursing homes should work. And President Trump delivered a drumbeat of dangerous claims — mocking masks, praising unproven treatments, speculating about bleach and about the virus disappearing.

Some residents became so dismayed by Mr. Trump’s conduct that they set up voter registration drives on their campuses; others held mini protests near major roads, holding signs and soliciting honks from passing vehicles. A few frontline workers began phone banking at home and writing to their state legislators.

And top officials at care facilities voiced deep frustration about how the virus response rapidly devolved from a public health issue to a partisan fight. They insisted that faster, clearer and better-coordinated government intervention could have saved lives.

“When you work in our business, you become accustomed to a certain level of bumbling,” said Jim Bernardo, the president of Presbyterian Senior Living, which cares for thousands of older people in Pennsylvania and beyond. “This rose to an entirely different level.”

Surveys of Pennsylvania voters show that Mr. Trump’s standing has been damaged in recent months by his administration’s handling of the coronavirus. At the end of February, around the time one of the first known virus deaths in the United States was reported, polling averages had Mr. Trump and his opponent, Joseph R. Biden Jr., separated by roughly three percentage points in Pennsylvania. Those polling averages now show Mr. Biden ahead of Mr. Trump by a wider margin. A New York Times/Siena College survey released Sunday showed Mr. Biden up by six points in the state, which Mr. Trump won narrowly in 2016.

Four years later, with its 20 electoral votes, Pennsylvania looms as one of the most important swing states in the election. Many of Mr. Trump’s remaining paths to victory require him to win the Keystone State, and to do that, he needs voters like Mr. Lohoefer, the nursing director, in his camp.

Mr. Lohoefer voted for Mr. Trump in 2016. But he has been pushed to his limits. He recalled with derision how the government and his corporate office would send sudden, often conflicting mandates during the early days of the pandemic.

It was eyewear that sent Mr. Lohoefer over the edge. At one point, he said, he was told every worker needed goggles, so he ordered $1,100 worth of fitted goggles only to be told four days later that goggles should be replaced with face shields.

“We even went to the point where we bought colorful ones so people choose their color,” he vented six months after the episode.

Mr. Lohoefer’s views are complicated. He is a Republican who believes all Americans should be guaranteed good health care. He is a medical worker of a mixed mind on masks. He is deeply skeptical about the effectiveness of plexiglass barriers — and even more suspicious of the policymaking logic that made them so pervasive.

Over all, he thinks the reaction to the virus was “overkill,” but he also thinks Mr. Trump was wrong to suggest it was “nothing to worry about.”

”He did a terrible job,” Mr. Lohoefer said of Mr. Trump’s handling of the pandemic. “But everybody did a terrible job.”

As the virus spread across her facility, Ms. Frazier, the caretaker who witnessed dozens of deaths, said she would see Mr. Trump on television without a mask and grow frustrated. And although she has voted for Republicans and had been a fan of Mr. Trump’s when he was on reality television, she began to blame his cavalier response for her worsening situation at work.

Americans, she came to believe, would not act until the virus affected them personally.

“If we want to make America great again, then we need to change the political face of our country,” she said, noting that she has made a point of discussing her view of Mr. Trump with Republican friends. Ms. Frazier said she would vote for Mr. Biden somewhat begrudgingly, mostly as a vote against Mr. Trump.

“I can’t even tell this story without having a tear coming down my face,” she added. “How can you, as the leader of our country, stand in front of our thousands and not show emotion?”

Ms. Frazier began to cry as she recalled her final moments in April with a resident with whom she had built a rapport over several years.

During better times, the woman assumed the role of floor matriarch. She was “sassy,” and would tell you “exactly what she felt,” Ms. Frazier said. Sometimes, when she had a spare moment during her shift, Ms. Frazier would pop by and say “Hey, beautiful!” — and the woman would beam.

But as Ms. Frazier put it, the virus “took her smile away.” Restrictions kept the woman’s family away. She lost weight — almost “half her body size,” Ms. Frazier said. A grim thought crossed her mind: She might be one of the last people the woman would see before she died.

Eventually, hearing her friend’s cries for care became too much. Ms. Frazier couldn’t help herself. She broke the rules.

“I took my gloves off and held her hand without the gloves,” Ms. Frazier said. “I knew she would pass then, and I did not want her to pass without having human touch.”





No.17 article:
Sean Connery: From Tentative Secret Agent to Suave Bond

He may be considered the ultimate 007, but it took him time to find his footing, helped by a director with a taste for high living.

In 1965, at the height of James Bond mania, Sean Connery told Playboy magazine that he had no problem with another actor assuming his signature role. “Actually, I’d find it interesting to see what someone else does with it,” he said. “Lots of people could play him.”

Strictly speaking, he was right. But by public reckoning, he couldn’t have been more wrong. In the popular imagination, the Scottish-born Thomas Sean Connery, who died Saturday at 90, will always be both the first and the best “Bond … James Bond.”

It’s hard to believe that before Eon Productions perfected its Bond formula, the secret agent’s creator, Ian Fleming, gushed about perhaps casting Richard Burton or David Niven as 007. The former would have brought the necessary guts, the latter the requisite charm.

But for an enduring, vodka martini-soaked franchise built on one man’s tightly wound toughness, womanizing charisma, tongue-in-cheek one-liners and exquisite tastes, Connery was the Fleming word made cinematic flesh.

Critics and superfans endlessly argue the merits of the various Bonds. Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton, Pierce Brosnan, Daniel Craig and even the one-time George Lazenby all have their respective strengths.

Inevitably, they bow to the archetypal Connery. His appeal, wrote John Cork and Bruce Scivally in “James Bond: The Legacy,” “comes not just from good looks, it comes from a particular confidence, a certainty within himself.” They added that he had “a natural, authoritative grace, which was at once seductive and intimidating.”

Connery was not originally made of such stuff. He had done solid work in “Darby O’Gill and the Little People” (1959) and, briefly, “The Longest Day” (1962), playing a British Tommy. However, when it came to personifying the ultrasophisticated lodestar of Her Majesty’s Secret Service, he was still “a pretty rough diamond,” as the production designer Ken Adam put it. Born in the Edinburgh slums, Connery was full of raw material. The producer Albert Broccoli called him “ballsy”; his partner, Harry Saltzman, said that the man moved “like a big jungle cat.”

Bond buffs credit the director of his early films, the Cambridge-educated Terence Young, for rounding Connery into shape. Though neither muscleman nor indiscriminate lover, Young (a.k.a. the “Bond Vivant”) had a taste for high living, big spending, bonhomie and forthrightness. “He was completely ruthless in a gentlemanly sort of way,” said the stuntman George Leech.

Connery’s start as Bond was a tad tentative. In the initial 007 outing, “Dr. No” (1962), his boss, M. (Bernard Lee), asks, “Does ‘toppling’ mean anything to you?” Connery answers diffidently: “A little. It’s throwing the gyroscopic controls of a guided missile off balance with a … a radio beam or something, isn’t it?” He even screws up his eyes briefly, trying to recall what the term means. When he dallies with M.’s secretary, Miss Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell), his flirting is a bit too studied.

Connery improves in “From Russia With Love” (1963). Outwitted by the covert SPECTRE operative Red Grant (Robert Shaw), he sheepishly admits missing a vital clue to his enemy’s identity. “Red wine with fish,” Connery says with a sigh. “Well, that should have told me something.” But within minutes he stabs and garrotes Grant in what Bond fans have called one of cinema’s most brutal family-friendly fights ever. A sweating Connery then adjusts his tie and retrieves a few trinkets, including stolen money from the corpse. The punchline: “You won’t be needing this … old man.”

By “Goldfinger” (1964), Connery and the Bond persona have melded seamlessly in the outsize blueprint for all future classic Bond productions. In the short teaser, our hero blows up a heroin plant with plastic explosives, shucks his scuba suit to reveal a white dinner jacket (with red boutonniere), seduces a traitorous tarantella dancer in her bathtub and, after savage fisticuffs, electrocutes a would-be assassin by knocking him and a space heater into said tub.

Connery utters fewer than 75 words in about four and a half minutes. But the last three (“Shocking … positively shocking,” said with soft reprobation as the assassin slowly simmers), combined with Connery’s self-assured sexuality and knockabout confidence, release a loud laugh from moviegoers and get them hooked.

So second nature is the persona that when the heroin plant explodes, the man who invariably saves the world reacts merely with an expression of bored, silent amusement and removes his just-lit cigarette from his mouth.

Hence Tom Jones, as Bondish a title singer as you can get, could warble in the 1965 outing, “He always runs while others walk / He acts while other men just talk / He looks at this world and wants it all / So he strikes like Thunderball!”

Connery didn’t want to continue to strike like thunder or, for that matter, lightning. Also, he wasn’t crazy about swimming with live sharks. The Bond films, he said, “don’t tax one as an actor. All one really needs is the constitution of a rugby player to get through 18 weeks of swimming, slugging and necking.” After the release of “Thunderball” he griped, “What is needed now is a change of course, more attention to character and better dialogue.”

The dialogue in what he thought was his last Bond film, “You Only Live Twice” (1967), was just fine. “I like sake … especially when it’s served at the correct temperature, 98.4 degrees Fahrenheit, like this is.” But character got short shrift. Stuffed with sumo wrestling; trap doors; an autogiro equipped with flamethrowers and missiles; a piranha pool; and, of course, a rocket base hidden inside a volcano, “You Only Live Twice” wasn’t exactly an actor’s breakthrough.

By this time, Connery’s boredom and even annoyance were obvious. And so he famously quit the series. Except for “The Molly Maguires” (1970), his next few films were unremarkable. Things weren’t going exactly as the freed agent had expected.

So for $1.25 million, 10 percent of the gross, and financing for two films of Connery’s choice, Eon lured him back for “Diamonds Are Forever.” Grayer, wiser and somewhat heavier, Connery nonetheless seems to enjoy himself in this bit of 1971 nonsense, reconciled to his increasingly cartoonish legacy. Stuffing a deadly cassette tape into a startled Jill St. John’s bikini bottom, he quips, “Your problems are all behind you now.” One of the screenwriters, Tom Mankiewicz, said, “There was an old pro’s grace about him.”

A dozen years later he returned yet again, to the non-Eon production “Never Say Never Again.” It was a pallid remake of “Thunderball.” But, Steven Jay Rubin wrote in “The James Bond Movie Encyclopedia,” “When he’s onscreen, the movie works. Fortunately, he’s onscreen a lot.”

Connery once described the part that has now made him immortal as “a cross, a privilege, a joke, a challenge. And as bloody intrusive as a nightmare.” But for those who cannot get enough beluga caviar or Walther PPKs, it remains a dream. Sean Connery as James Bond is forever.





No.18 article:
Why Are Republicans So Afraid of Voters?

There is no “both sides do it” when it comes to intentionally keeping Americans away from the polls.

As of Sunday afternoon, more than 93 million Americans had cast a ballot in the November elections. That’s about two-thirds of the total number of people who voted in 2016, and there are still two days until Election Day.

This is excellent news. In the middle of a global pandemic that has taken the lives of nearly a quarter of a million Americans, upended the national economy and thrown state election procedures into turmoil, there were reasonable concerns that many people would not vote at all. The numbers to date suggest that 2020 could see record turnout.

While celebrating this renewed citizen involvement in America’s political process, don’t lose sight of the bigger, and darker, picture. For decades, Americans have voted at depressingly low rates for a modern democracy. Even in a “good” year, more than one-third of all eligible voters don’t cast a ballot. In a bad year, that number can approach two-thirds.

Why are so many Americans consistently missing in action on Election Day?

For many, it’s a choice. They are disillusioned with government, or they feel their vote doesn’t matter because politicians don’t listen to them anyway.

For many more, the main obstacle is bureaucratic inertia. In New York City, a decrepit, incompetent, self-dealing board of elections has been making a mockery of democracy for decades. Just in the past four years, tens of thousands of absentee ballots have been sent to the wrong addresses, and hundreds of thousands of voters have been wrongly purged from the rolls. For the past few days, some New Yorkers have been forced to stand in line for four or five hours to cast their ballots.

But across the country, the group most responsible for making voting harder, if not impossible, for millions of Americans is the Republican Party. Republicans have been saying it themselves for ages. “I don’t want everybody to vote,” Paul Weyrich, a leader of the modern conservative movement, told a gathering of religious leaders in 1980. “As a matter of fact, our leverage in the elections quite candidly goes up as the voting populace goes down.”

This strategy has become a central pillar of the G.O.P. platform. It is behind the party’s relentless push for certain state laws and practices — like strict voter-identification requirements and targeted voter purges — that claim to be about preserving electoral integrity but are in fact about suppressing turnout and voting among groups that lean Democratic.

The strategy also is behind the partisan gerrymandering that Republican state lawmakers have mastered over the past decade, redrawing district lines to keep themselves in power even when they lose a majority of the statewide vote. (Democrats gerrymander when they can, too, but the most egregious examples of the past decade have been by Republicans.)

And the party is behind the early shutdown of this year’s census, which the Trump administration insisted on over the objections of longtime Census Bureau officials, and which it hopes will result in an undercount of people in Democratic-leaning parts of the country.

The Supreme Court’s conservative majority has greenlit the Republicans’ anti-democratic power grabs. In 2013, by a 5-to-4 vote, the court struck down the heart of the Voting Rights Act, giving free rein to states with long histories of racial discrimination in voting. Last year, the court, again by a 5-to-4 vote, refused to block even the most brazenly partisan gerrymanders, no matter how much they disenfranchised voters.

This year, in the face of the unprecedented hurdles to voting introduced by the coronavirus pandemic, Republicans are battling from coast to coast to ensure that casting a ballot is as hard as it can be. In Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott mandated a single ballot drop-box per county — including the increasingly Democratic Harris County, population 4.7 million. Republican lawmakers there are also suing to throw out more than 100,000 ballots cast by Harris County voters from their cars, at drive-through sites.

In Nevada, the Trump campaign and the state Republican Party have sued to stop counting mail-in ballots until observers can more closely monitor the signature-matching process. In Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Wisconsin, Republicans have fought to prevent the counting of all mail-in ballots that arrive after Election Day, even if they are postmarked on or before Nov. 3.

This all amounts to “a concerted national Republican effort across the country in every one of the states that has had a legal battle to make it harder for citizens to vote,” said Trevor Potter, a Republican lawyer who formerly led the Federal Election Commission and worked on both of John McCain’s presidential campaigns.

The effort has been turbocharged by President Trump, who has spent the past year falsely attacking the integrity of mail-in ballots. Mr. Trump’s lies have been echoed by the attorney general, William Barr, who has claimed that mail balloting is associated with “substantial fraud.” Not remotely true. Mr. Trump’s own handpicked F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray, has said there is no evidence of any coordinated voter-fraud effort. Scholars, researchers and judges have said for years that voting fraud of any kind is vanishingly rare in this country. That hasn’t stopped Republicans from alleging that it happens all the time. They know that accusations of fraud can be enough by themselves to confuse voters and drive down turnout.

When that tactic fails, Republicans turn to another tried-and-true one: voter intimidation. Frightening people, particularly Black people, away from the ballot box has a long history in the United States. Modern Republicans have done it so consistently that in 1982 a federal court barred the national party from engaging in any so-called anti-voter-fraud operations. The ban was renewed again and again over the decades, because Republicans kept violating it. In 2018, however, it expired, meaning that 2020 is the first election in which Republicans can intimidate with abandon.

All the while, Mr. Trump happily plays the part of intimidator in chief. He has urged his supporters to enlist in an “Army for Trump,” monitoring polls. “A lot of strange things happening in Philadelphia,” Mr. Trump said during a recent campaign stop in Pennsylvania. “We’re watching you, Philadelphia. We’re watching at the highest level.”

Representative democracy works only when a large majority of people participate in choosing their representatives. That can happen only when those in power agree that voting should be as easy and widely available as possible. Yet today, one of the two major political parties is convinced it cannot win on a level playing field — and will not even try.

What would a level playing field look like? For starters, it would have more polling places, more early-voting days and shorter voting lines. Since the Supreme Court gutted the heart of the Voting Rights Act in 2013, almost 1,700 polling places have been shut down, most of them in the states that had been under federal supervision for their past discriminatory voting practices. It’s no surprise that voters in predominantly Black neighborhoods wait 29 percent longer to cast ballots than voters in white neighborhoods.

A fair election would mean giving all states the necessary funds to implement automatic voter registration and to upgrade old voting machines. It would mean allowing people with criminal records to vote as soon as they have completed the terms of their sentences.

Many of these reforms have already been adopted in some states, and they have enjoyed bipartisan support. In the case of early voting, some Republican-led states are ahead of their Democratic counterparts. Georgia, for example, has long offered many weeks of early voting — far better than New York, which began the practice only last year, and for only 10 days. (It’s worth noting that Georgia once had even more early-voting days. Republican lawmakers cut them back by more than half after Black voters started taking advantage of early voting in 2008.)

To help ensure that voting is easier for everybody, the federal government needs to take action. Currently, there are two comprehensive voting-rights bills in Congress, the Voting Rights Amendment Act and H.R. 1, also known as the For the People Act. The first bill would update the old map the Supreme Court invalidated in 2013 and would identify the states and localities that are racially discriminating against their voters today, requiring them to seek federal court approval before changing any election laws.

The second bill would, among other things, create a national voter-registration program; make it harder for states to purge voting rolls; and take gerrymandering away from self-interested state legislatures, putting the redistricting process in the hands of nonpartisan commissions.

The House of Representatives passed both of these bills in 2019, with all Democrats voting in favor both times. The Voting Rights Amendment Act got the vote of a single House Republican. H.R. 1 got none. The Republican-led Senate has refused to act on either. Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, mocked H.R. 1 by referring to it as the “Democrat Politician Protection Act.” Listen to him closely. He is only repeating what most Republicans have believed for decades: When more people vote, Republicans lose.

That’s why, if either of these laws is going to pass, it will require, at a minimum, voting out Republicans at every level who insist on suppressing the vote. Only then can those who believe in representative democracy for all Americans reset the rules and help ensure that everyone’s vote counts.





No.19 article:
States Undercount Positive Rapid Tests, Masking the Spread of Disease





No.20 article:
In Russia’s Idyllic Wine Country, Dark Tales of Dreams Dashed

A verdant slice of southern Russia evokes Tuscany and produces surprisingly magical wine. But bureaucratic nightmares and police raids intrude on the aspirations of upstart vintners.

ANAPA, Russia — Russia has no shortage of innovators, risk-takers and freethinking entrepreneurs. But their country is not built for them. Sooner or later, the state security apparatus makes its unwelcome appearance. 

Visit the velvety slopes dipping down to Russia’s verdant Black Sea coast, and you will see that this applies even to wine.

Vladimir Prokhorov, bespectacled and profane, has been making wine from the grapes bulging off the vines for 30 years. He has never been abroad, let alone to Portugal, but his Madeira is magical. His cellar is his shrine, where an icon of Jesus sits next to the thermometer, and where he and his wife never set foot when they are in a bad mood.

But the oak barrels — marked in chalk “2016 Muscat Hamburg,” “2016 Cahors” — now make a hollow sound when you tap them. The police showed up last summer at his winery in southern Russia and drained them all.

“I hate them,” Mr. Prokhorov said, referring to the authorities, slamming his left fist into his right palm. “I hate them with a fierce loathing.”

On first glance, the rebirth of Russian fine winemaking, catering to well-off Russians’ more refined tastes, is a Putin-era success story. But beyond the vines, a darker and very Russian tale of big dreams, dashed hopes, bureaucratic nightmares and police raids comes into view.

Many of Russia’s smallest and most innovative winemakers, with the informal approval of local officials, long operated without licenses, considering them prohibitively cumbersome and expensive. Then, about two years ago, the federal authorities started cracking down, bringing the easy boom years of the country’s upstart vintners to an end.

Russia covers almost seven million square miles of territory, most of it frozen year-round, and much of the soil yielding little except cloudberries, lingonberries and the odd mammoth tusk poking out of the thawing ground.

But then there is a sliver, from the Caucasus foothills to Crimea, where the softly undulating, deep-green land, glowing beneath the warm autumn sun, is reminiscent of a Tuscan afternoon. The ancient Greeks made wine around here, and so did the czars, who brought in French expertise.

The Soviets collectivized the vineyards and turned winemaking into industrial-scale enterprises like that chateau of the proletariat, Kubanvinogradagroprom.

In wine-rich areas like the resort city of Anapa, there were once vending machines dispensing chilled riesling by the cupful. At home, in their basements, people finessed their own small-batch techniques.

Nowadays, the Black Sea coast is an oenophile’s dreamland, attracting people from across the country who want to try making their own wine in its rocky soil. Most of the major European grape varieties, along with obscure Soviet-developed ones and indigenous types like Krasnostop Zolotovsky, are grown here.

To President Vladimir V. Putin, restoring the czarist-era glory days of Russian winemaking meshes with his mission to make Russia great again. Kremlin-allied oligarchs have poured millions of dollars into elite Russian vineyards, and one of Mr. Putin’s propaganda chiefs, the television host Dmitri Kiselyov, became the head of the country’s winemaking association last year.

So it makes sense that a section of the annual agricultural fair in Russia’s southern breadbasket region, Krasnodar Krai, is devoted to wine. But there was something odd in the cavernous convention hall in Krasnodar, the region’s main metropolis, when I visited the fair in early October:  The men peddling their merlots and sauvignon blancs seemed very wary of journalists.

By way of explanation, Andrei Greshnov, a former Moscow banker, pointed to his bottles. There were no excise stamps, typically required for alcohol sold in Russia.

Getting licensed for making and selling wine had long been too costly for small-scale producers like Mr. Greshnov. So he and dozens of others operated outside the law, with a wink and a nod from local officials, who saw them as part of the region’s identity and also drank their wines. But in the last two years, Russia’s federal law enforcement authorities have intruded on these arrangements.

“We understood that these were green shoots that needed to be supported,” Emil Minasov, a senior official in the Krasnodar region’s Agriculture Ministry, said of the unlicensed winemakers. “They were able to strike deals with local administrations to be left alone. Now this has become impossible. They’ve been squeezed, to put it bluntly.”

Law enforcement officials say they are combating tax avoidance and counterfeit and unsanitary production, which are indeed problems in Russia. Recent changes in the law are supposed to make it easier for small wineries to be legal.

But Mr. Minasov calculates that wineries still need to produce at least 40,000 bottles a year just to cover the expense — $6,000 at a minimum — of getting licensed and, more problematically, of keeping up with the reams of building regulations and reporting requirements. He added that he believes small-scale wineries should not be required to be licensed at all, “but they don’t listen to us up above.”

On a hillside by the sea, Ivan Karakezidi, a descendant of Greeks who goes by Yannis, was on the phone with yet another lawyer. Since the 1990s, Mr. Karakezidi, 64, has been one of the region’s best-known small-batch vintners and entertainers, hosting parties on his sprawling compound, which evokes a Mediterranean village. 

The police swooped in on the compound at 6 a.m. on a June morning, climbing over the fence, he says, and seized 4,545 high-end bottles, including his prized 2003 cabernet sauvignon. His son faces jail time, allegedly caught in a sting operation for selling unlicensed wine. Mr. Karakezidi insists he is the victim of a scheme by well-connected businesspeople to gain control of his choice vineyards.

If his legal woes deepen, he is prepared to leave the country. “It’s counterproductive to do business here,” Mr. Karakezidi said. “No matter what, they will convict you, lock you up, take it all away and envy you.”

Before he leaves, he will show those who take over his property “where the tasting room is and where the toilet is, so they don’t get them mixed up.”

Some small winemakers have managed to get licensed, but they question whether they will be able to make a living.

Olga and Vadim Berdyayev’s breezy courtyard on the outskirts of Anapa was suffused on a recent afternoon with the rich, yeasty scent of fermenting grapes. A neighbor helped them pour buckets of cabernet franc into a press while Mr. Berdyayev, in his garage lined with steel vats, checked the density of this year’s riesling in a test tube.

The couple, both architects, brewed beer in their home region, Siberia, and discovered winemaking when they moved to the Black Sea coast 12 years ago. Making a wine is like raising a child, Ms. Berdyayeva said: Sometimes it gets sick, and you have to treat it, and sometimes it shows talent, “and you start to marvel and wonder.”

They sold at fairs and to travelers on winery tours. But two years ago it became clear the good times were over: The government let it be known that even the tiniest wineries had to get licenses. That meant spending around $7,000 on paperwork, ventilation and a specialized scanner for excise stamps; submitting to strict controls and inspections; and tracking every bottle produced with specialized government software and unique 19-digit codes.

Ms. Berdyayeva quit her job to focus on the bureaucracy, and the couple got their license. But rather than being comforted, Mr. Berdyayev says he now lives in constant fear of inspections or a paperwork mistake. His stress echoed the cri de coeur of many Russians struggling with the unchecked power of the police.

“I’m in this constant state of tension, that, God forbid, I will do something wrong,” he said. “Sometimes I no longer understand the wine, and think I am ruining it. And this is truly depressing.”





No.21 article:
On Marathon Weekend, Des Linden Ran 26.2 Miles, and Then Some, in New York

The New York City Marathon turned into a virtual event, but that did not stop Des Linden from coming to New York to accomplish something big.

This was not the way Des Linden was planning to finish a marathon in Central Park this weekend, when she and 50,000 other runners were supposed to run the New York City Marathon.

But there she was Saturday afternoon, crossing a finish line in front of Tavern on the Green, where she has finished marathons so many other times. There were no bleachers filled with screaming fans, no finish-line towers or balloon arches, even though on this day she was finishing something wild that she had never done before — and most likely won’t ever do again.

“Legs are definitely shot,” Linden, 37, said near the end of what would turn out to be a 31-mile day.

As with most other mass events scheduled for the final nine months of the year, 2020 had other plans for the New York City Marathon. But Linden wanted to come to New York this weekend anyway. And she wanted to run.

“It’s a tiny slice of normal to be in New York at this stage of the year,” she said.

Without races, Linden was on the same playing field as other mere mortals who were missing road races. She was bored and in search of a challenge. And so this was the month Linden decided to create a “calendar club” — running as many miles as the date on the calendar.

The first few days of a calendar club challenge are pretty easy, but the final third of the month, when every day requires at least 20 miles, is brutal. You can break up the daily miles into segments and go as slowly as you like, but it still requires following up one ultramarathon after another for four days.

If you do the math, it’s 496 miles for the month, including 196 miles during the final week.

Linden had never run more than 130 miles in a week before the third week of her challenge, when she ran nearly 150. She ran 18 miles at a pace of 7 minutes 3 seconds, 19 miles at a 7:08 pace, and 22 miles at a 7:14 pace.

Day 26 happened in a heavy, freezing downpour. “Boston 2018 weather,” she said. She decided to ease back (a relative term when you are the 2018 Boston Marathon champion) and break up the runs — she ran 16 miles in one stint and 10 in another. The next two days, she went 21 miles in one run and six in another, and then 22 miles followed by six miles. On her Instagram feed, bright smiles gave way to pictures of Linden with her feet up, her eyes weary with exhaustion.

For Day 31, she wanted something special. She wanted to run in New York. She arrived in the city from her home in northern Michigan on Friday evening, and by 8:40 a.m. Saturday, with the temperature hovering a little above freezing, she had begun a socially distanced 5-kilometer race in Central Park.

When that was done, she ran two miles down to Tavern on the Green and began her next feat: a marathon on the course that the first New York City Marathon followed 50 years ago.

Like a lot of runners of varying abilities, Linden has spent the pandemic hunting for challenges and motivation. She loves to run and has been racing since she was a child. She sets goals like the rest of us have breakfast, something that just happens out of habit.

Earlier in the year, she wanted to pull off a rare marathon double that required a seven-week turnaround between the Olympic trials marathon on Feb. 29 and the Boston Marathon on April 20. She managed the first leg of that, coming in a heartbreaking fourth place at the trials. But in March, the Boston Athletic Association postponed the 2020 race until September 14.

She decided to focus on a different double — yet another seven-week turnaround between Boston and the New York City Marathon. By the end of June, both had been called off.

For weeks, Linden tried to figure out what might motivate her to train on the rolling dirt roads near her home. She thought about trying to do a “fastest known time” on a well-known trail run, or maybe an ultramarathon, since races longer than the marathon distance, with small fields, were still on the calendar.

Then she saw that a friend was pursuing his own month of self-imposed punishment during July. She thought it was a pretty hard-core endeavor and might be a good fit for her during a year when the pandemic had thwarted her hard-core endeavors.

Linden’s challenge — #RunDestober, she called it — was born. 

On Day 30, one of her hamstrings felt as if it were tied in a knot, but the end was in sight — and 24 hours later, she was doing loops in Central Park rather than running in the solitude of the northern Michigan countryside.

“This is the most people I have seen in six months,” she said roughly halfway through her run.

Every few miles, a pack of runners would notice exactly who was running past them. “Go, Desi!” they yelled. She hasn’t heard that much lately. It never gets old.

As she approached the finish line at Tavern on the Green, a few people from New York Road Runners appeared with a small tape. Nearby, other runners who had just finished their own marathons at the foot-wide line the organizers had laminated to the road were snapping selfies to memorialize their accomplishments.

It’s not clear when Linden will race again, a nerve-racking circumstance with the clock ticking on her career. For one day though, she had reached a goal she had worked extremely hard for, grinding out mile after mile in New York, even if, in a gracious gesture to her running companion, the 7:45 pace was two minutes slower than her usual marathon speed.

When it was over, there was Champagne, the first slug sipped from her shoe and then many more from the bottle. There was something to celebrate, and knowing Linden, there was probably going to be whiskey in her future.

As she had put it, a small dose of normal during a very abnormal year.





No.22 article:
Boarded-Up Windows and Increased Security: Retailers Brace for the Election

Stores are making plans for how to deal with potential civil unrest stemming from Tuesday’s election.

Nordstrom, the high-end department store chain, said it planned to board up some of its 350 stores and hire extra security for Election Day on Tuesday. Tiffany &amp; Company, the luxury jeweler, said that “windows of select stores in key cities will be boarded in anticipation of potential election-related activity.” Saks Fifth Avenue said it was “implementing additional security measures at certain locations in the event of civil unrest due to the current election.”

In Beverly Hills, the police said they would take a “proactive approach” and close Rodeo Drive, a renowned strip of luxury retailers, on Tuesday and Wednesday, citing the likelihood of increased “protest activity.” The police, working with private security companies, said they would also be on “full alert” throughout Beverly Hills starting on Halloween and continuing into election week.

The nation is on edge as the bitter presidential contest finally nears an end, the latest flashpoint in a bruising year that has included the pandemic and widespread protests over social justice. Anxiety has been mounting for months that the election’s outcome could lead to civil unrest, no matter who wins. In the retail industry, many companies are not simply concerned about possible mayhem — they are planning for it.

In a show of just how volatile the situation seems to the industry, 120 representatives from 60 retail brands attended a video conference this week hosted by the National Retail Federation, which involved training for store employees on how to de-escalate tensions among customers, including those related to the election. The trade group also hired security consultants who have prepped retailers about which locations around the country are likely to be the most volatile when the polls close.

“I am 50-plus years old, and I didn’t think I would live to see this,” said Shane Fernett, who owns a contracting business in Colorado Springs and has been stocking up on plywood to board up his retail customers. “You read about this in third-world countries, not America.”

For the retail industry, 2020 has been filled with bankruptcies, store closures and plummeting sales as tens of millions of Americans struggled with job losses because of the pandemic. Protests over police violence against Black citizens sent millions of people into the streets, demonstrations that in some cases devolved into the looting and burning of stores in a number of cities. Worries about unrest around the election have been fanned by President Trump, who has declined to say whether he would agree to a peaceful transfer of power if his Democratic challenger, Joseph R. Biden Jr., is victorious.

Protests flared again this week after Walter Wallace Jr., a Black man with mental health issues who was carrying a knife, was killed by the police in Philadelphia. That set off looting and clashes with the police in parts of the city. Citing the civil unrest in Philadelphia, Walmart said on Thursday that it was removing all of its firearms and ammunition from its sales floors across the country. On Friday, Walmart said it was returning guns to the sales floor, after determining that the incidents of unrest “have remained geographically isolated.”

This year, businesses have already sustained at least $1 billion in insured losses from looting and vandalism largely set off by the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer in May, according to one estimate cited by the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group.

It is on target to be the most costly period of civil unrest in history, likely surpassing damages during the 1992 riots in Los Angeles and many of the civil rights protests of the late 1960s.

The situation in 2020 has drawn comparisons to protests in the 1960s, but Derek Hyra, an associate professor in the School of Public Affairs at American University, said recent unrest had been more geographically widespread, affecting a wider swath of businesses.

“Most of the rioting and burning in the 1960s happened within the geography of low-income Black spaces,” Mr. Hyra said. “In the 2020 unrest, more of it happened in downtown and affluent areas.

“It’s not just urban America,” he added. “The protests have been in the suburbs, they’ve been in rural areas.”

Protecting properties from potential damage is not a simple decision. Retailers can risk alienating their customers by erecting plywood, particularly if the anticipated unrest does not materialize.

“You are sending a message when you do that,” Stephanie Martz, general counsel of the National Retail Federation, said. “You don’t want to necessarily engage in this kind of grim forecasting.”

Some companies aren’t taking chances — the iconic Macy’s location in Manhattan’s Herald Square was boarded up on Friday. But other large businesses are keeping their plans vague.

Target, with about 1,900 stores, said in a statement, “Like many businesses, we’re taking precautionary steps to ensure safety at our stores, including giving our store leaders guidance on how to take care of their teams.”

A spokesman for CVS, which operates nearly 10,000 stores, said: “Our local leadership teams are empowered to take steps that they determine will best support the safety of our stores, employees and customers. This includes the option to board select store locations.”

Gap Inc., with more than 2,000 stores in North America, said it had “contingency plans set in place for any issues that may arise and will continue to monitor the situation carefully and closely next week.”

Behind the scenes, though, many businesses are making explicit preparations.

Tom Buiocchi, who runs an online platform called ServiceChannel, which connects retailers with local contractors in cities across the country, said more than 500 stores had filled out work orders to board up or take other protective measures ahead of the election.

He said he had discussions this week with a group of luxury retailers who were reluctant about being the first ones to take any visible precautions. “No one wants to be the only one boarding up in a community; it can be off brand,” Mr. Buiocchi said.

Some retailers have debated whether erecting boards would make them more of a target. Others are taking steps like purchasing different screws for the plywood from the ones they used in June, hoping to thwart looters with screw guns. The costs of boarding up businesses can range from a few hundred dollars to $31,000 for large department stores with display windows.

For the stores that stay open through election night and the uncertain days that could follow, their workers will again be thrust into a volatile situation. Already, retail employees are faced with the potential for violence in trying to ensure that customers wear masks to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Election week could pose more dangers.

The training offered by the retail federation was originally meant to help workers defuse tense situations around mask wearing by advising employees to make nonthreatening eye contact and speak with empathy, said Ms. Martz, the group’s top lawyer.

She acknowledged that there could be added danger for workers on Tuesday night because the police are likely to be stretched thin if there are protests. “People are so divided, and it is such a tinderbox,” Ms. Martz said.

It is all a stark reminder of just how tense the country’s political situation is.

“Maybe in other countries, protest and chaos is more commonly understood around the transfer of power like a presidential election or a prime minister,” said Professor Hyra of American University. But in the United States, “there has been such a clear understanding that we live in a democracy and whoever wins the Electoral College, there is a peaceful transfer of power.”

Mr. Fernett, the contractor in Colorado, said he had recently purchased a two-year supply of plywood and two-by-four planks at the request of fretful retailers.

He is taking his own precautions. He has removed the name of his business, Jack of All Trades, from his company trucks, and is requiring that his technicians work in pairs next week for their own safety.

“Our local lumber yard asked what’s going on, why such a big order,” Mr. Fernett said. “I said, ‘We think all hell is going to break loose.’ That’s why we are stocking up. I hope we don’t need to use it.”





No.23 article:
Picturing Yourself with Bob Ross as the ‘Experience’ Opens in Indiana

Visitors can tour the beloved painter’s recreated studio and take Bob Ross master classes, in the city where “The Joy of Painting” was filmed.

MUNCIE, Ind. — Lexi Vann was losing her race with Bob Ross.

The 19-year-old from Carmel, Ind., sporting a bushy brown Bob wig that defied the stiff Halloween afternoon breeze, dipped her brush into a pool of purple paint and began tracing the outline of a mountain range, taking her cue from an episode of “The Joy of Painting” on a screen set up on the lawn.

But Ross, whose curly perm and soothing voice were at odds with his breakneck pace, finished his work, titled “Sunset Aglow,” five minutes ahead of her. “As soon as he started going with the trees, I was lost,” Ms. Vann said, her cheeks flushed.

She was among the more than 100 fans of the PBS painter who made the trek — in her case 50 miles, but others came from as far away as Arizona — for the sold-out opening day of the “Bob Ross Experience,” a $1.2 million permanent exhibit and painting workshop series in the city where the beloved television host filmed his show from 1983 to 1994, and inspired generations of fans with his yes-you-can positivity.

Their pilgrimage brought them to Ross’s former broadcast studio, painting workshop and temporary art gallery sheltered in a collection of historic buildings that are now part of the Minnetrista museum and gardens. Fans dressed as the painter sampled iced tea — a signature that he sipped between takes — and tried to recreate “Gray Mountain,” a vibrant landscape from 1992, in a workshop led by a certified Ross instructor. Revelers meandered along a winding boulevard in a costume parade, with winners receiving Bob Ross bobbleheads, complete with miniature brush and bucket.

“This is fantastic,” Brett Estes, the Best Bob winner said, outfitted in a Bob wig (from a costume shop), beard (real) and light blue button-down. His brushes were tucked in the front pocket.

But the crown jewel awaited fans inside Ross’s studio, the former public television station WIPB, inside the Lucius L. Ball House (the family gave the country the iconic glass kitchen jar).

Fifteen masked visitors per hour, with timed tickets, could pose with Ross’s easel, palette and the set of brushes he used to create what he called his “happy little trees.”

“We made it as close as possible to how it appeared when he filmed here” while still accommodating visitors, George Buss, the vice president of visitor experience at Minnetrista, said.

The Experience — offered Wednesday through Sunday — is akin to an Easter egg hunt: Items that belonged to Ross, like the brushes he used on the show, are safely behind acrylic. But everything else is fair game to touch. “We really wanted people to be immersed in the space,” Mr. Buss said. “We have little discoverables everywhere, and we know people will find new things each time they visit.”

Ross lovers can slip on a vintage J.C. Penney shirt like the ones he wore on the show, or flip through a stack of his fan mail. And they can pore over shelves full of Ross essentials like a jar of Vicks VapoRub, which he used to clear his sinuses to ensure a smooth, velvety voice, and the hair pick he kept in his back pocket to fluff out his perm.

But the ultimate Ross Zen awaits fans in the far corner of the studio, where a painting of a misty mountain rests on an easel, one of some 30,000 (including copies) that the artist boasted of producing in a 1991 interview with The New York Times. (Ross died in 1995, at age 52, of complications from lymphoma; his works — if you can find one — have been offered for up to $55,000 on eBay.)

An episode of “The Joy of Painting” plays on the camera monitor — and visitors who step in front of the easel will find themselves standing in Ross’s shoes. The experience can be overwhelming, leaving some visitors in tears.

They can also step across the hall into a re-creation of a 1980s American living room, its shelves filled with such memorabilia as a Bob Ross Chia Pet and a Bob Ross toaster. “We wanted to also show Bob as fans watching at home in their living room knew him,” Mr. Buss said.

In another building half a mile up the boulevard, a dozen masked people hunched over socially distanced canvases, trying their hand at “Gray Mountain,” in a master class led by Jeremy Rogers, a 21-year-old Ross instructor. (The four workshops offered this weekend were capped at 12 people per class, but Minnetrista plans to offer the three-hour sessions twice a month going forward, for $70 per person.)

Mr. Rogers has been certified since 2018 — one of at least 5,000 instructors to complete a three-week training course at the Bob Ross Art Workshop and Gallery in Florida. It offers certification in landscape, floral and wildlife painting and requires that students complete approximately two paintings per day. “It’s pretty intense,” he said, adding that it was the speed demanded of instructors that he found most challenging. Ross completed each painting live on air, with no breaks or cutaways, in 26 minutes and 47 seconds.

“To do it as fast as him —” Rogers paused and shook his head. “Man.” He said it takes him about an hour to complete a painting. Doug Hallgren, who has been certified since 2003, managed to match Ross stroke for stroke in a demonstration Saturday on the lawn.

The trick, he said, is to embrace “happy little accidents” as Ross called them. “It’s about learning not to go back,” Mr. Hallgren said. “No matter how much you might want to.”

Jessica Jenkins, the vice president of collections and storytelling at Minnetrista, said that while critics saddle Ross with a reputation for kitsch, she’s thrilled to finally see him getting the recognition he deserves. The Smithsonian Museum of American History acquired four Bob Ross paintings and a selection of memorabilia last year, and while the museum has not announced its time frame for exhibiting them, the Bob Ross Experience currently displays six of the 26 paintings in the Minnetrista collection.

“Lots of people don’t view Bob as a real artist, which is upsetting because he made it simple on purpose for TV,” Ms. Jenkins said. She walked over to a Ross seascape — a gift from Ross’s widow — on the wall in the Ball home. “This is vastly more than what he did on television,” she said. “These are the ones he took his time on; the ones he did for him.”

Also on view is an exhibit of 29 Bob Ross paintings that have never been publicly displayed in Oakhurst, a historic Ball home nearby. A majority are loans from Muncie residents, who tell how they acquired the paintings from Ross’s demonstrations in local malls, or as gifts from the painter himself.

So how did America’s television painter end up in a college town in the middle of the country? Before the early 1980s, it’s doubtful that Ross, who was born in Florida, could have placed Muncie on a map. But from 1983 until 1994, the painter visited the Midwest city four times a year to tape his show.

(He had filmed the first season of “The Joy of Painting” in a Washington, D.C. suburb, but the audio and video quality were poor. Ross, who traveled the Midwest teaching painting workshops, wanted to expand his audience beyond the East Coast. So when he advertised on Muncie’s public television station and his classes sold out, he suspected he had something special on his hands — and struck a deal to film the series here.)

And the community has long been invested in preserving his legacy. Minnetrista has been planning the $1.2 million project since 2018. It received a $250,000 grant from the Indiana Tourism Council, as well as support from Bob Ross Inc., the company that owns “The Joy of Painting” and the Bob Ross name, among other patrons. (One of them is Twitch, the streaming service that attracted 5.6 million viewers when it live streamed an all-episode marathon of “The Joy of Painting” in 2015.)

Organizers hope to open the second stage of the project, which includes the renovation of the second floor of the L.L. Ball home and the opening of a permanent painting workshop and gallery space there, next fall.

Ms. Jenkins acknowledges that the middle of a pandemic may seem like a strange time to kick off an interactive exhibition like this one, but she says everyone could use a dose of Ross’s calm and positivity right now.

“My biggest fear in getting into this project was that I’d find out he wasn’t the person I thought he was,” Ms. Jenkins said. “But the Bob Ross you see on TV is completely sincere. He put everyone else first constantly. I was like, ‘Oh, thank God, he was not a jerk.’”





No.24 article:
Overlooked No More: Rosa May Billinghurst, Militant Suffragette

She was arrested multiple times but persisted in her activism, which ultimately helped women secure the right to vote in England.

This article is part of Overlooked, a series of obituaries about remarkable people whose deaths, beginning in 1851, went unreported in The Times. It is also part of The Times’s continuing coverage of the centennial of the 19th Amendment, which gave women the vote.

The inside of a prison was certainly not an ideal place to campaign for a national cause, but in Rosa May Billinghurst’s case it would have to do. It was March 1912, and Billinghurst, a British suffragette, had been sentenced to one month of hard labor for her role in a window-smashing campaign in which demonstrators destroyed property in popular neighborhoods of London to make a statement: Let women vote!

Even as she toiled in the prison yard, Billinghurst worked her cause, enlarging the movement by recruiting inmates to join her in the fight for women’s suffrage.

This wasn’t Billinghurst’s first time in jail, and it wouldn’t be her last. For many years she clashed with the police, joining riots and using other militant protest tactics dressed in the colors of the movement: purple for royalty, white for purity and green for hope.

Billinghurst, who went by her middle name, May, was born on May 31, 1875, in Lewisham, in southeastern England, the second of nine children of Henry and Rosa Ann Billinghurst. She contracted polio as a child and used a tricycle wheelchair for most of her life. As a young woman she took up social work, assisting women at a workhouse, an institution for people who could not support themselves. She also taught Sunday school.

She joined the Women’s Social and Political Union, a group that endorsed militant tactics to further the cause of women’s rights, in 1907. By then the suffrage movement was in full force in Britain.

It had started in 1792, with the publication of Mary Wollstonecraft’s book “A Vindication of the Rights of Women,” which argued for men and women to be treated equally, a revolutionary concept at the time. The movement took on steam in the 1840s, when Chartists, members of a working-class movement, called for the passage of voting rights legislation.

Committees began to form across the region, and petitions with millions of signatures were submitted to Parliament. It wasn’t until 1869 that taxpaying women were granted the right to vote in municipal elections, but not in parliamentary elections.

By the end of the century, the committees had merged into the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies. Emmeline Pankhurst founded the Women’s Social and Political Union in 1903, calling on its members to eschew peaceful protests (which were more common in the United States, where the activists were more often called suffragists) in favor of hunger strikes and even violence. Billinghurst started the organization’s Greenwich chapter. At protests, she was known to ram into police officers with her tricycle.

The women’s union suspended militant campaigning, however, in 1910 in anticipation of a vote on legislation known as the Conciliation Bill, which, if passed, would have allowed about a million women, mostly wealthy property owners, to vote in parliamentary elections.

But for Prime Minister Herbert Henry Asquith, giving women the vote was a low priority. He was focused on passing another bill, the People’s Budget, which would impose a higher tax on the wealthy.

On what became known as Black Friday, Billinghurst, along with about 300 other suffragettes, gathered outside government buildings and demanded to speak with Asquith. When he refused, they tried to storm the buildings but were driven back by the police. Billinghurst was forcibly removed from her tricycle.

“At first, the police threw me out of the machine onto the ground in a very brutal manner,” she said in a police statement on Nov. 18, 1910. “Secondly, when on the machine again, they tried to push me along with my arms twisted behind me in a very painful position, with one of my fingers bent right back, which caused me great agony. Thirdly, they took me down a side road and left me in the middle of a hooligan crowd, first taking all the valves out of the wheels and pocketing them, so that I could not move the machine, and left me to the crowd of roughs, who, luckily, proved my friends.”

This was not the last time Billinghurst clashed with law enforcement. In November 1911, she was among 220 women arrested for smashing windows with hammers and stones in a protest in Parliament Square against a bill that would give all men, not just property owners, the right to vote but would continue to exclude women. She was arrested again in March 1912 during a coordinated protest in which 150 women smashed windows across London.

From jail, she continued to push for women’s suffrage.

“Miss Billinghurst is here with her tricycle,” wrote Alice Ker, another imprisoned suffragette, in a letter to her daughter. “She has irons on each leg, and can only walk with crutches, her tricycle works with handles. She drives it round the yard at exercise time. It is painted in the colors, with a placard, Votes for Women, on the back of it.”

Billinghurst was arrested again in December 1912, this time on charges of damaging mailboxes in the Blackheath neighborhood of London. Pankhurst encouraged Billinghurst to represent herself in court, an opportunity she used to plead the case for women’s suffrage once again.

In 1913, the newspaper The Suffragette published the entire defense that Billinghurst had delivered to an all-male jury, titling it, “The Guilt Lies on the Shoulders of the Government.”

“This is a women’s war,” she told the jurors, “in which we hold human life dear and property cheap, and if one has to be sacrificed for the other, then we say let property be destroyed and human life be preserved.”

“We are not hooligans seeking to destroy,” she added, “but we mean to wake the public mind from its apathy.”

She was convicted and sentenced to eight months in prison. She responded by going on a hunger strike, and in a letter to her mother wrote of being force fed. When her health declined, Pankhurst and others secured her release.

But Billinghurst immediately returned to the cause. In May 1914, The Suffragette reported that the police had again attacked her and destroyed her tricycle after she chained herself to the gates of Buckingham Palace.

While her bodily weaknesses had been exploited, Billinghurst said, her inner strength would never be shaken.

“The government may further maim my crippled body by the torture of forcible feeding, as they are torturing weak women in prison today,” she said in her trial statement. “They may even kill me in the process, for I am not strong, but they cannot take away my freedom of spirit or my determination to fight this good fight to the end.”

She would go on to join the Women’s Freedom League, which encouraged resisting taxation and boycotting the national census, and the Suffragette Fellowship, which celebrated the accomplishments of suffragettes.

Victory for them came first in 1918, with the passage of the Representation of the People Act, which gave property-owning women age 30 and older the right to vote in England. Ten years later, women 21 and older were given the same voting rights as men.

Billinghurst died on July 29, 1953, at 78. She was survived by Beth Billinghurst, who said Billinghurst had adopted her in 1933. She is the author of a memoir, “Rosa May Billinghurst: Beth’s Untold Story,” which was published last year.





No.25 article:
Networks Pledge Caution for an Election Night Like No Other

Complicated ballot counts and a president’s baseless claims of vote-rigging are two of the challenges facing TV anchors and executives.

Batches of ballots that will be counted at different times, depending on the swing state. Twitter gadflies and foreign agents intent on sowing confusion. A president who has telegraphed for months that he may not accept results he deems unfavorable.

Television executives overseeing this year’s election night broadcasts are facing big challenges. And the world will be watching.

“Frankly, the well-being of the country depends on us being cautious, disciplined and unassailably correct,” said Noah Oppenheim, the NBC News president. “We are committed to getting this right.”

In interviews, the men and women in charge of network news coverage — the platform that tens of millions of Americans will turn to on Tuesday to make sense of a confusing vote count and learn the future of their country — made similar pledges.

Patience. Caution. And constant reassurance to viewers about the integrity of the results. “We have to be incredibly transparent all through the night with what we know and what we don’t know,” said George Stephanopoulos, who will anchor the proceedings for ABC News.

To accommodate the idiosyncrasies of this pandemic-era campaign, networks are planning tweaks to the way some election nights looked in the past.

Real-time results will be displayed in the context of the total expected vote, including the absentee and mail-in ballots that will account for a high proportion of it. The usual metric, “precincts reporting,” is tied to in-person votes on Election Day, which producers expect to be potentially misleading.

The “decision desks,” the teams of data experts at news organizations who project results, say they are not competing over who calls a race first. “We’re preparing the audience that this might not be over in one night,” said Susan Zirinsky, the president of CBS News.

And combating misinformation — be it from online mischief-makers or falsehoods from the commander in chief — is a priority, particularly in educating Americans that any delays in declaring a victor stem from care, not chicanery.

“Just because a count may take longer does not mean that something is necessarily wrong,” said Sam Feist, CNN’s Washington bureau chief. “It may not even mean that it’s a close race. We have to constantly remind the viewer that patience will be needed and this may take some time in critical states, and that doesn’t mean anything is untoward.”

That TV networks bear this burden is partly a symptom of the country’s broken information culture, in which partisan news sources and specious social media rumors can overwhelm careful journalism.

There is also open concern among Democrats that President Trump may seize on early returns and declare himself the victor, hoping that voters’ perceptions overwhelm reality.

“I don’t think we can censor the candidates,” Mr. Stephanopoulos said. “But we have to be vigilant about putting whatever comments are made in context, with everything we know about where the race stands, where the law stands, where the votes are.”

Fox News, home to several of Mr. Trump’s most loyal media allies, will receive particular scrutiny. The network’s election telecast will be led by the anchors Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum, although pro-Trump opinion stars like Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham are likely to pop in occasionally, said Jay Wallace, the president of Fox News Media, who oversees news coverage.

Asked if he would put Mr. Trump on the air if the president dialed into the Fox control room on election night, Mr. Wallace said: “Honestly, we’d have to see what was going on.” But he called that scenario “unlikely,” in part because Mr. Trump’s preferred opinion hosts won’t be guiding the broadcast.

“I wouldn’t think he would call in, knowing that the squad is on that is on,” Mr. Wallace said. He added, “Whatever he were to say wouldn’t sway anything when it comes to what we’re counting.”

That was a reference to Fox News’s decision desk, which has a track record of independence and accuracy. Arnon Mishkin, the consultant who leads the operation, is known for holding his ground during an on-air confrontation in 2012 when the Republican strategist Karl Rove questioned his projection that Barack Obama would be re-elected. Mr. Mishkin, like vote counters at rival networks, will be sequestered from the anchor team on election night, an effort that news organizations say shields the decision desk from competitive pressures.

In 2018, Fox News was 50 minutes ahead of any other network in projecting that the Democrats would take control of the House of Representatives. (“I know a lot of listeners out there, their heads are exploding,” the anchor Chris Wallace told viewers.)

Each television network makes its own state-by-state projections. But the projections rely on raw voting data from a handful of shared sources.

One group of networks — ABC, CBS, CNN and NBC — collaborate on an exit-polling operation, administered by Edison Research. The Associated Press, which has an expansive vote-tracking effort, conducts its own count. Fox News, starting in 2018, relies on a proprietary model that draws from The A.P.

Besides the “magic wall” maps and flag-strewn graphics, the networks will trot out a few gizmos to keep viewers tuned in over what could be a long night — or week, or month. CBS News, for instance, is broadcasting from a recently built set overlooking Times Square, in the studio that housed MTV’s “Total Request Live.”

A poll by Gallup and the Knight Foundation found that more than half of Americans thought it could take a week or longer to determine the results (although Mr. Trump declared on Twitter on Friday, “The Election should END on November 3rd”). Three-quarters of those surveyed said they expected some news outlets to “rush to announce a winner.”

Mr. Oppenheim, of NBC News, said he was keenly aware of his responsibilities. “It’s possible we will have a clear outcome on election night at a reasonable hour, and I don’t want the audience to be suspicious of that,” he said. “It’s possible we won’t have an outcome for several days, or several weeks.”

In 2000, when networks twice erroneously declared a winner in Florida, Mr. Oppenheim was working as a production assistant at MSNBC. “Those of us who have grown up in the last 20 years of television journalism understand that election nights can take any number of surprising directions,” he said. “Our job is to be prepared for all of them.”





No.26 article:
Bob Biggs, Los Angeles Punk-Rock Entrepreneur, Dies at 74

Slash Records, which Mr. Biggs founded in 1979, became one of the most successful independent record labels of its era.

Bob Biggs, who sensed opportunity in the Mohawk-filled mosh pits of the Los Angeles punk movement in the late 1970s and founded Slash Records, which became one of the most successful independent record labels of its era, died on Oct. 17 at his ranch in Tehachapi, Calif. He was 74.

His wife, Kim (Truch) Biggs, said the cause was complications of Lewy body dementia.

At Slash Records — originally part of Slash magazine, the underground Los Angeles punk scene’s bible — Mr. Biggs signed bands, like the Germs, X and Fear, that were dominating the moment. The label later expanded into other kinds of rock with artists like Los Lobos, the Blasters, Violent Femmes and Faith No More. When it entered a distribution deal with Warner Bros. Records, Slash’s sound traveled far past Southern California.

“L.A. was still part of the dream factory, and we didn’t have a Warner Bros. willing to back bands like us,” John Doe, X’s bassist and vocalist, said in a phone interview. “The labels were hoping this annoying punk-rock thing would go away so they could get back to the business of classic rock. Slash was our best alternative.”

“Bob wasn’t a music geek,” he added. “He didn’t pore over credits on the backs of LPs and stuff like that. But he wanted to affect the culture through art.”

Indeed, Mr. Biggs didn’t seem like a guy destined for punk-rock history.

Standing 6-foot-3, he had played football in college. He was passionate about painting. And by his own admission, he didn’t really even love punk music. But he was effortlessly entrepreneurial, and in 1978 he found himself living next door to the Fairfax offices of Slash, whose scrappy staff was chronicling the frenzied, anarchistic speed-rock being played nightly at Hollywood clubs like the Whisky a Go Go and the Masque, which was located in the basement of a pornographic movie theater.

When the magazine needed money to fund a recording by the Germs, Mr. Biggs put up $1,000 to record the EP “Lexicon Devil,” which the magazine sold to readers via mail order. It became Slash Records’ first release, and it also gave Mr. Biggs a new job.

In Penelope Spheeris’s 1981 documentary, “The Decline of Western Civilization,” which explores the Los Angeles punk scene, Mr. Biggs gives a tour of Slash’s offices. As wiry staffers with pierced ears inhale cigarettes while editing copy, a writer known as Kickboy Face picks up a phone to listen to a tip. “Yeah, Slash magazine,” he says. “There was a riot at the Hong Kong last night?”

Ms. Spheeris asks Mr. Biggs why people like punk music. “Nothing else is going on,” he says. “It’s the only form of revolution left.” (Mr. Biggs and Ms. Spheeris were married at the time; they divorced in 1984.)

In 1979, Mr. Biggs took over Slash after its founders, Steve Samiof and Melanie Nissen, left the scene, and he started handling things with a businesslike touch. He stopped publishing the magazine, and Slash Records had its first success the next year with X’s “Los Angeles,” widely regarded as one of the most influential punk records of all time.

Mr. Biggs’s talent for signing bands that sold well became the envy of competing labels, and he expanded his roster beyond punk to other genres. He signed the band Violent Femmes, giving them the radio hit “Blister in the Sun,” and he released Los Lobos’ acclaimed debut album, “How Will the Wolf Survive?” The Blasters also joined Slash’s roster, expanding its sound into rockabilly and American roots music.

Warner Bros. took notice in 1982 and offered the label a manufacturing and distribution deal. When The New York Times visited Slash’s new offices in West Hollywood that year, Mr. Biggs had developed a mogul’s swagger, interrupting himself repeatedly during the interview to sign documents a secretary brought him.

With success came accusations of selling out, but Mr. Biggs wasn’t chafed in the slightest.

“Some people think the way Slash developed was politically incorrect, but I feel no obligation to stand by a particular style of music to the bitter end,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1987. “I’ve never felt that the label stood for a specific set of ideals I was obliged to uphold.”

“I wouldn’t describe myself as a music fan,” he said in the same interview. “I put out records I think are necessary, and the challenge of getting a mass audience to agree they’re necessary is what’s fun for me.”

Robert Lee Biggs was born on July 28, 1946, in Los Angeles and grew up in Whittier, Calif. His father, Ariel, was an inventor and a salesman; his mother, Ila Faye (Wright) Biggs, was a homemaker.

Mr. Biggs graduated from La Serna High School and attended U.C.L.A. on a football scholarship with hopes of going pro. But he blew out his knee during his first season, and the injury ended his athletic career. He reinvented himself, majoring in fine arts and immersing himself in the city’s theater scene, and he showed his drawings and paintings at some local galleries. Before long, he was living next door to Slash’s offices.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Montezuma Ariel Alexander Biggs, and a sister, Judy Biggs. His marriages to Leslie Ward, Ms. Spheeris and Stella Marmara ended in divorce.

Slash released its biggest commercial hit, Faith No More’s album “The Real Thing,” in 1989, and it also released music by Rammstein, the Chills and L7. The label was sold to London Records in 1996, but Mr. Biggs stayed on. After a series of corporate mergers, Slash closed as an active label in 2000, but Mr. Biggs reacquired the rights to the name a few years later and Slash eventually relaunched as a reissue label.

Mr. Biggs lived in New York during the London Records era, but he later moved back to Southern California with his family, settling in a mountainous desert area of Tehachapi, where he built a ranch with an art studio to work on his large-scale oil paintings. A collection of his pastel paintings featuring a series of babies’ heads was used as the art for “To Be Kind,” a 2014 album by the experimental rock band Swans. In 2016, Mr. Biggs learned that he had Lewy body dementia, a neurological disease that affects movement and cognition.

This year marked the 40th anniversary of X’s “Los Angeles,” and as Mr. Doe reflected on Slash Records during his phone interview, he disagreed with the snobbish notion that Mr. Biggs had no punk spirit.

“In the best definition of punk rock, Bob was actually very punk,” he said. “He wanted to change things, and he didn’t accept the status quo. When someone told him, ‘You can’t do that,’ he said, ‘Oh really? I’m going to try.’”





No.27 article:
In San Francisco, Virus Is Contained but Schools Are Still Closed

A debate over reopening classrooms pits the mayor against the Board of Education, cutting across class, party and racial lines.

As a third wave of coronavirus infections has begun to take off across much of the country, San Francisco has been a bright spot. After experiencing a surge of cases over the summer, the city has tamped down infections to near their lowest levels since the pandemic began. Restaurants, movie theaters, and museums are open at 25 percent of capacity.

One crucial part of the city, however, remains firmly closed: The public schools.

Even as private and parochial schools have begun to reopen their doors, the school district has not set a timeline for resuming in-person instruction, except to say that it is not likely in this calendar year.

The district’s decision to stay closed this fall, even as other urban districts — including New York City, Miami, Washington D.C., and Philadelphia — have opened or set dates for partially reopening, has angered many parents, local health experts and the mayor, London Breed, who does not control the school system.

It has also touched off, in this very politically progressive city, a sharp debate about how best to safely educate low-income and minority students during the pandemic — and over who speaks for the Asian, Latino and Black families who together represent a majority of the district.

That debate is underway in other cities where schools have been slow to reopen. In some places, like Los Angeles and Chicago, school buildings remain closed partly because virus cases remain high in the city. In others, like Oakland, teachers’ unions have said that their members do not want to return to classrooms until there is essentially no local transmission.

The frustration in San Francisco boiled over last month when district administrators told the principals of roughly one-third of the district’s 125 public schools that their communities should start brainstorming new names for their schools, because their current names had historical associations with slavery, genocide, colonization or other injustices. The list included schools named for Abraham Lincoln, George Washington and even the state’s senior U.S. senator, Dianne Feinstein.

The news prompted a scathing statement from Mayor Breed, who said it was offensive for the district to be focusing energy on renaming schools when it has not put forward a plan for reopening them. The district’s 52,000 students have been taking all their classes remotely since school resumed.

“I had had it, honestly,” Ms. Breed said in an interview on Oct. 22. “From my perspective, they weren’t providing clarity about one of the most important things to kids and families in this city.”

While the district was talking about seeking equity by renaming schools, she said, “the achievement gap is growing, and there are kids who live in poverty who are falling behind.”

The president of the Board of Education, Mark Sanchez, said in response that the renaming process was not interfering with preparations to reopen. But the district has said it is far from ready to resume classroom instruction, and Mr. Sanchez and his fellow board members, who are elected, have shown little urgency about getting students back into school buildings.

The teachers’ union has also balked at reopening schools, saying that conditions are not yet safe.

Mr. Sanchez, who is a fourth-grade teacher in a nearby district, has argued that calls for reopening are largely coming from a small group of well-off parents, and has suggested that the district’s poor Black and Latino parents are less eager than the well-off families are to send their children back to school, as has turned out to be the case elsewhere.

With the schools closed and many families struggling to arrange for child care, the city created a system of community hubs where low-income students can go during the day and be supervised while they engage in distance learning. As of Oct. 28, 1,256 students were enrolled in the hubs, about three-quarters of their capacity of 1,723.

The school board initially responded to the city’s plan for the hubs with suspicion. In a recent interview, Mr. Sanchez, who is of Mexican, Italian and French-Canadian heritage, asserted that the hubs were not being used to capacity because minority parents do not want their children in classrooms right now.

“I would imagine that families are choosing not to go because they’re afraid,” he said. “These are families that are service industry workers, that come from communities that have a higher rate of infection, who don’t want to put their kids in harm’s way.”

Ms. Breed, who is Black, rejected the idea that families were starkly divided by race on the issue of school reopening. She said her sister called her often to complain about how stressful it was to try to manage her son’s distance learning, and that she had heard from many other families who were impatient for schools to open.

“Let’s not make this about race when we talk about children, because all kids matter,” she said.

The population of San Francisco is 48 percent white, but as of 2019, white students made up only 15 percent of public school enrollment. Forty percent of students were Asian, 27 percent Latino and 7 percent Black. The rest were American Indian, Pacific Islander, multiracial or declined to state their race.

When the school district surveyed families in early July, nearly 60 percent said they would send their children back either fully in-person or for a hybrid schedule. But white families responded to that survey at a disproportionately high rate.

Dheyanira Calahorrano, a community health worker who lives in the Mission District of the city and has an 11-year-old son in public school, agreed that many Latino families were afraid of catching the virus because a disproportionately large number of the city’s cases and deaths have been Latinos. But she asserted that there were still many Latino families who wanted their children back in classrooms.

Mothers she had spoken to in the Mission District were worried that their children were not making academic progress, and in some cases were developing behavioral problems. Some mothers had decided not to work in order to help their children with distance learning, she said, but many of them were struggling because they spoke only Spanish and were not facile with technology.

“We are suffering an educational crisis,” she said.

Maria Su, executive director of the city’s Department of Children, Youth and Their Families, said that some children who came to the community hubs had not logged in to their online classes since the schools closed in March.

“We have children who are missing 90 assignments, whose parents just cannot help them because of a language barrier,” she said.

Many medical experts in the Bay Area also are frustrated with the district’s failure to reopen. While it is impossible for the foreseeable future to completely eliminate the risk of transmission in schools, they say, the risk is relatively low in areas where the virus is contained, especially in elementary schools, and can be reduced even more by safety measures like mask requirements and good ventilation.

San Francisco currently has 4.7 daily new cases per 100,000 people, a little more than half the rate of new cases in New York City. The share of coronavirus tests coming back positive averaged 0.89 percent for the week ending Oct. 22, lower than New York City’s average of 1.8 percent for that week.

Experts say they are seeing evidence of significant mental and physical problems among children who are out of school, including weight gain and increased rates of depression, anxiety, drug overdoses and suicidal thoughts among adolescents.

Among all children aged 10 to 18 who were treated at the emergency department of UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland, across the bay from San Francisco, the percentage who screened positive for suicidal thoughts rose to 16 percent in September from 6 percent in March, according to Dr. Jacqueline Grupp-Phelan, the Chief of Pediatric Emergency Medicine at the University of California San Francisco.

“We really, absolutely, have to consider that the cure might be worse than the disease,” Dr. Grupp-Phelan said.

She and others expressed concern that if San Francisco and other Bay Area districts waited much longer to open schools, coronavirus cases would rise significantly again and make it more difficult to reassure people that it was safe. Cases are in fact already ticking up in California, though the increase in San Francisco so far has been modest.

“Every day is really wasting precious time,” said Dr. Jeanne Noble, an Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine at U.C.S.F.

The district’s answer is that it is not ready to reopen. It recently rolled out a dashboard tracking its progress toward the time when it could welcome back an initial wave of students: pre-kindergartners and some students with disabilities. The district had not yet completed any of nine groups of tasks it had pledged to accomplish before reopening, and was less than halfway done with seven of them.

One hurdle the district faces is setting up a program of surveillance testing for its staff. State guidelines suggest testing all teachers every two months; Mr. Sanchez, the Board of Education president, has said that teachers should be tested every week.

“That’s what the private schools are doing,” he said on Friday. “Why aren’t our teachers worth that?”

In what some irate parents took as a sign of the board’s lack of focus on reopening schools, the discussion of reopening plans at the last board meeting did not begin until five hours into the meeting.

When the Board of Education and the city’s Board of Supervisors held a joint meeting on Oct. 23, two supervisors berated the district for not having set a timeline to reopen.

“We are losing children every day,” said one supervisor, Sandra Lee Fewer, who is Chinese-American. “This lack of urgency is just appalling.”

Dr. Matt Aldrich, the executive medical director of critical care at U.C.S.F., who has two children in the district, said he was disappointed that there had been little discussion among members of the Board of Education about the largely reassuring evidence so far from school reopenings across the country and abroad.

“I think we need to continue to do everything we can to mitigate risk, to be as safe as we possibly can,” Dr. Aldrich said. “But if we say that the only way that we can return to school is to have some plan that seemingly guarantees that there will be zero cases at all, that just strikes me as setting us up to never return this year.”





No.28 article:
In Texas, the Polls Open for a Graveyard Shift

HOUSTON — Felix Sylvester drove straight to the polling site after work and cast his ballot in a matter of minutes. There was no line, perhaps because it was a few minutes past 3 a.m.

The parking lot was lit up in the predawn darkness by towering light poles. Most of Houston was asleep — most, but not all. Mr. Sylvester, 65, voted early Friday at one of eight polling places across Harris County that, five days before the election, stayed open all night. For him, it was about more than convenience; it was probably the difference between voting and not voting.

Mr. Sylvester works at a grain elevator on the Houston Ship Channel. He had been working eight-hour and 12-hour shifts that made it almost impossible to cast a ballot during Texas’ early voting period, during which the polls have typically been open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.

“It would have been difficult, because if I work nights, I’m sleeping during the day,” he said. It happened that 3 a.m. was one time that worked for him.

The 2020 election now has something in common with 7-Eleven: 24-hour service.

From 7 a.m. Thursday to 7 p.m. Friday, the eight polling sites gave new meaning to the notion of early voting, operating in the cities of Houston, Pasadena and Cypress. Voters in the third-most-populous county in America cast their ballots at 2 a.m. as if it were 2 p.m., part of a push by officials in the predominantly Democratic county to expand voter access in the midst of a pandemic during the three-week early-voting period, which ended Friday.

The numbers made it clear that it was not a mere gimmick. At the peak nighttime hours — from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. — 10,250 people voted at the eight locations. More than 800 of those voters cast their ballots between midnight and 7 a.m., election officials said.

The late-night voters were college students and retirees, men and women, gay and straight, parents who brought their children and workers who walked in still wearing their work ID lanyards and nameplates.

Leslie Johnson, 29, who works for an oil-services company, finished work, went to the wrong polling site and finally voted at an overnight location shortly after 7 p.m. Richard Munive, 33, a bar back who is the son of a Colombian immigrant, clocked out around 1:30 a.m., switched out of his work shoes and voted by 2:30 a.m., a few hours before he started his second job at a T-shirt printing warehouse.

At three overnight polling sites, it was democracy in action, in the dark. The locations were near the old Astrodome at the NRG Park stadium complex, the Tracy Gee Community Center in a diverse neighborhood north of Chinatown and a facility in a historically Black neighborhood called Kashmere Gardens.

Many of the voters at those polling places were Black, Hispanic or Asian, and the vast majority said they were Democrats who had voted for Joseph R. Biden Jr. for president. Some said they had headed to the polls at nighttime, when they could, because they did not want to miss what could be a historic election that might change the political landscape of Texas. Others said it was simply because they almost always work late or stay up late, and the polls in Texas never do.

Mr. Sylvester, who is originally from the Caribbean island of Trinidad, finished work at about 2 a.m. and headed to the polls after hearing on the news about the 24-hour voting. Asked whom he supported for president, Mr. Sylvester chuckled.

It was too late for politics. Or too early.

“I voted for the winner,” he said.

Malea Hardeman, 24, has the type of job that rarely fits into a 7 a.m.-to-7 p.m. schedule. So she was thrilled to be able to vote at 11:30 p.m.

“It really took the stress off of trying to figure out where to fit it in,” Ms. Hardeman said after voting. “I’m a doula, so my work hours are completely random. Because babies are all the time.”

Ms. Hardeman voted at an all-night location at NRG Arena. A drive-in concert nearby, organized by the Move Texas civic engagement group to draw people to the nighttime polls, had just ended.

The concert headliner was a Houston rap superstar, Bun B. For many in the audience, there was another superstar at the show — the young man responsible for 24-hour voting, Chris Hollins, the top election official in Harris County.

Mr. Hollins, 34, is the youngest and the first Black clerk of Harris County. He has pushed to make it easier to vote during the pandemic, tripling the number of early-voting sites and opening drive-through voting locations. The all-night voting event was the first time in Texas history polls were open 24 hours.

For years, Texas Republican leaders have fought to toughen the state’s voting rules, passing a voter ID law and other measures. The initiatives led by Mr. Hollins, a Democrat, have been challenged in court by Republican officials and conservative activists. Despite those legal battles, turnout in Harris County surpassed the 2016 early-vote total; 1.4 million people voted in person or by mail during the early voting period that ended Friday. Across Texas, more early ballots were cast this year than the entire number cast in 2016.

“There are a lot of folks in this county and around this country who work nontraditional hours and live nontraditional hours, and for good reason,” Mr. Hollins said. “On one night, we’re giving them the opportunity to cast a vote at a time that’s convenient for them.”

The late-night polling site in west Houston near the Chinatown neighborhood had what none of the others had: free tacos.

State Representative Gene Wu, a Houston Democrat, had arranged and paid for Boombox Taco to park its truck in a community center parking lot and serve voters. People stood by the truck with plates of tacos on an unusually cold Houston night, lingering after voting.

Jovany Ramirez, 19, was still wearing his Burger King uniform when he voted at about 1 a.m. Carlos Davis, 41, was in his nurse’s apparel.

“Just like with health care, there’s nothing like access,” Mr. Davis said. “If you don’t have access, you have nothing.”

As any A.T.M. manager will tell you, sometimes things are busy long past midnight. And sometimes things are yawn-inducingly slow.

After Mr. Sylvester voted at 3 a.m. at a community center in Kashmere Gardens, the minutes ticked by with nary a sound, and zero voters.

And then, shortly before 4 a.m., up pulled Brittany Hayes, 33, a small trove of virus masks dangling from the rearview mirror. She, too, went in and out within minutes.

“I work at night, and I typically get off at 9:30, so the polls are closed,” said Ms. Hayes, a customer-service representative and mother of two who described herself as a night owl, as is, she said, her 1-year-old. “I always vote. I feel like this is a way for our voices to be heard.”

The parking lot was frigid. Ms. Hayes wrapped herself, right after voting but long before the dawn’s early light, in the Stars and Stripes blanket she keeps in her car.





No.29 article:
How the Wealthy World Has Failed Poor Countries During the Pandemic

Despite pledges for debt relief and expanded programs, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund have delivered meager aid, say economists.

LONDON — Like much of the developing world, Pakistan was alarmingly short of doctors and medical facilities long before anyone had heard of Covid-19. Then the pandemic overwhelmed hospitals, forcing some to turn away patients. As fear upended daily life, families lost livelihoods and struggled to feed themselves.

On the other side of the world in Washington, two deep-pocketed organizations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, vowed to spare poor countries from desperation. Their economists warned that immense relief was required to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe and profound damage to global prosperity. Emerging markets make up 60 percent of the world economy, by one I.M.F. measure. A blow to their fortunes inflicts pain around the planet.

Wages sent home to poor countries by migrant workers — a vital artery of finance — have diminished. The shutdown of tourism has punished many developing countries. So has plunging demand for oil. Billions of people have lost the wherewithal to buy food, increasing malnutrition. By next year, the pandemic could push 150 million people into extreme poverty, the World Bank has warned, in the first increase in more than two decades.

But the World Bank and the I.M.F. have failed to translate their concern into meaningful support, say economists. That has left less-affluent countries struggling with limited resources and untenable debts, prompting their governments to reduce spending just as it is needed to bolster health care systems and aid people suffering lost income.

“A lost decade of growth in large parts of the world remains a plausible prospect absent urgent, concerted and sustained policy response,” concluded a recent report from the Group of 30, a gathering of international finance experts, including Lawrence Summers, a former economic adviser to President Barack Obama, and Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.

The wealthiest nations have been cushioned by extraordinary surges of credit unleashed by central banks and government spending collectively estimated at more than $8 trillion. Developing countries have yet to receive help on such a scale.

The I.M.F. and the World Bank — forged at the end of World War II with the mandate to support nations at times of financial distress — have marshaled a relatively anemic response, in part because of the predilections of their largest shareholder, the United States.

During a virtual gathering of the two organizations in October, the U.S. Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, urged caution. “It is critical that the World Bank manage financial resources judiciously,” he said, “so as not to burden shareholders with premature calls for new financing.”

The World Bank is headed by David Malpass, who was effectively an appointee of President Trump under the gentlemen’s agreement that has for decades accorded the United States the right to select the institution’s leader. A longtime government finance official who worked in the Trump administration’s Treasury Department,  he has displayed contempt for the World Bank and the I.M.F.

“They spend a lot of money,” Mr. Malpass said during congressional testimony in 2017. “They’re not very efficient. They’re often corrupt in their lending practices.”

Under his leadership, the World Bank has required that borrowers deregulate domestic industry to favor the private sector as a condition for loans.

“There is an ideological attitude here, a more conservative attitude of, ‘Well, it’s going to be money that goes to waste,’” said Scott Morris, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development. In the midst of a crisis caused not by profligacy but by a pandemic, he added, “that’s a very wrongheaded attitude.”

World Bank officials said the institution had expanded lending at a historic pace, while defending Mr. Malpass’s demand for tighter conditions on loans as responsible stewardship. “He wants to have good country outcomes,” said Axel van Trotsenburg, the World Bank’s managing director of operations. “He wants to make sure that the programs reach people.”

The I.M.F. is run by a managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, a Bulgarian economist who previously worked at the World Bank. She is answerable to the institution’s shareholders. The Trump administration has resisted calls to expand the I.M.F.’s reserves, arguing that most of the benefits would flow to wealthier countries.

In April, as worries about poor countries intensified, world leaders issued elaborate promises for help.

“The World Bank Group intends to respond forcefully and massively,” Mr. Malpass said. At the I.M.F., Ms. Georgieva said she would not hesitate to tap the institution’s $1 trillion lending capacity. “This is, in my lifetime, humanity’s darkest hour,” she declared. 

But the I.M.F. has lent out only $280 billion. That includes $31 billion in emergency loans to 76 member states, with nearly $11 billion going to low-income countries.

“We have really stepped up in terms of quick disbursement to be able to support countries that are in need,” Ceyla Pazarbasioglu, director of the I.M.F.’s Strategy Policy and Review department, said in an interview.

The World Bank more than doubled its lending over the first seven months of 2020 compared with the same period a year earlier, but has been slow to distribute the money, with disbursements up by less than a third over that period, according to research from the Center for Global Development.

The limited outlays by the I.M.F. and the World Bank appear to stem in part from excessive faith in a widely hailed initiative that aimed to relieve poor nations of their debt burdens to foreign creditors. In April 2020, at a virtual summit of the Group of 20, world leaders agreed to pause debt payments through the end of the year.

World leaders played up the program as a way to encourage poor countries to spend as needed, without worrying about their debts. But the plan exempted the largest group of creditors: the global financial services industry, including banks, asset managers and hedge funds.

“The private sector has done zilch,” said Adnan Mazarei, a former deputy director at the I.M.F., and now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “They have not participated at all.”

Concerns about developing countries’ debts rested atop the reality that many were spending enormous shares of their revenues on loan payments even before the pandemic.

Since 2009, Pakistan’s payments to foreign creditors have climbed to 35 percent of government revenues from 11.5 percent, according to data compiled by the Jubilee Debt Campaign, which advocates for debt forgiveness. Ghana’s payments swelled to more than 50 percent of government revenues from 5.3 percent.

As the pandemic spread, Pakistan raised health care spending but cut support for social service programs as it prioritized debt payments.

The debt suspension was at best a short-term reprieve, delaying loan payments while heaping them atop outstanding bills.

Some 46 countries, most of them in sub-Saharan Africa, have collectively gained $5.3 billion in relief from immediate debt payments. That is about 1.7 percent of total international debt payments due from all developing countries this year, according to data compiled by the European Network on Debt and Development.

Mr. Summers recently described the debt suspension initiative as “a squirt gun meeting a massive conflagration.”

But the program has proved powerful in one regard: It conveyed a sense that the troubles of the poorest countries have been contained.

“Part of the reason why so little has been done is that there was a misguided expectation that you could provide all the support low-income countries needed simply by deferring payments on their debts,” said Brad Setser, a former U.S. Treasury official and now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.

In October, the G20 extended the program into the middle of next year. Ms. Georgieva has chided private creditors for remaining on the sidelines.

Private creditors have been reluctant to offer debt suspension in part because of uncertainty over who will reap the benefits. Many developing countries have borrowed aggressively from Chinese institutions in a process both opaque and uncoordinated. If American or European institutions forgo collecting on their debts, the money may simply be passed on to a Chinese lender rather than lifting health care spending.

Private creditors maintain that poor countries have not requested relief, recognizing that credit rating agencies may treat debt suspension as a default — a status that jeopardizes their future ability to borrow.

“They don’t want to lose the market access,” said Clay Lowery, executive vice president of research and policy at the Institute of International Finance, a trade association representing financial companies around the world.

But that fear has been actively fomented by creditors, discouraging poor countries from seeking relief.

“The private sector is often highly misleadingly aggressive in suggesting that debt restructuring will cut countries off forever, and that complying with its wishes will get them new money very soon,” Mr. Summers said in an interview.

Some argue that anything short of debt restructuring, in which terms are renegotiated and creditors absorb losses on loans, merely extends the pain — for borrowers and lenders alike.

Critics of the I.M.F. say its handling of the pandemic has displayed the same trait that has long defined its mission — a bias toward ensuring that creditors get paid, even at the expense of wrenching spending cuts in poor countries.

Since the pandemic began, the I.M.F. has allocated $500 million to cover the costs of debt suspension, while handing out more than $100 billion in fresh loans. More than $11 billion from the loan proceeds has paid off private creditors, according to a report from the Jubilee Debt Campaign.

“International financial institutions are going to leave countries in much worse shape than they were before the pandemic,” said Lidy Nacpil, coordinator of the Asian Peoples’ Movement on Debt and Development, a Manila-based alliance of 50 organizations. “Their interest is not primarily about these countries getting back on their feet, but to get these countries back into the business of borrowing.”





No.30 article:
Inspiring Black Voters Is Key to Biden’s Prospects in Florida

Democratic groups are pouring money into get-out-the-vote efforts in Black precincts to try to increase turnout from 2016, in a state that is critical to President Trump’s re-election chances.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — One Saturday last month, after Democrats held a news conference in this city’s predominantly Black east side to promote the start of early voting, State Senator Audrey Gibson offered her view about why turnout among Florida’s African-Americans dropped so strikingly in 2016.

“Some people were in mourning because President Obama could not run again,” Ms. Gibson said.

Around the corner, Joanne Townsend was blunter as she prepared fried fish and steamed crabs at a charity event. “We didn’t really think he was going to get in there last time,” Ms. Townsend, a retiree, said while reflecting the pervasive skepticism that Donald Trump could win in 2016. “I kept saying, ‘They’re not going to put that fool in there,’ and he got in there.”

Four years after President Trump carried Florida by just over one point, no other single battleground poses quite the impediment to his re-election as America’s largest traditional swing state. A loss in Florida, where several late polls show Joseph R. Biden Jr. with a modest lead, would be the most ominous sign for the president’s re-election chances on Tuesday night, given that the state was expected to report results faster than most key battlegrounds.

And no group of voters may be as vital to Mr. Biden’s success as African-Americans in Florida, a complicated political patchwork that is difficult for Democrats to capture under favorable circumstances and all but impossible for them to win if there is any ebb in enthusiasm among Black voters.

That’s what happened four years ago when only 65 percent of the state’s Black voters cast ballots, compared with 73 percent in 2012. In county after county where Black voters represent at least a quarter of the population — from the lightly-populated farmland in the Florida Panhandle to the state’s pulsating cities — Hillary Clinton’s share of the vote declined from what former President Barack Obama had garnered four years earlier.

Mr. Biden’s fate in Florida may hinge in part on whether he can reverse that slide.

“There was a lack of excitement four years ago,” said Ramon Alexander, a state representative from the Tallahassee area, who recalled the lack of energy in the city’s two large universities: Florida State and the historically Black Florida A&amp;M. “I remember talking to young folks in the dorms at FAMU and F.S.U.; they were not going to vote or some were voting for Jill Stein. I haven’t heard any of that this time.”

The initial indicators for Mr. Biden have been mixed and Democratic groups, including those funded by Michael R. Bloomberg, have raced to pour more money into get-out-the-vote efforts in Florida’s Black precincts, according to party strategists familiar with the spending.

Democrats also raced over the weekend to organize a second event for Mr. Obama in South Florida in as many weeks for an election eve rally.

Despite the challenges, many African-American leaders here say they are reassured by the boiling anger among their constituents toward the president.

In dozens of interviews conducted over the past month across a range of Black communities in Florida, many voters expressed a deep contempt for Mr. Trump, a more modest affection for Mr. Biden, and an overriding conviction that the coronavirus pandemic and episodes of racial injustice this year made 2020 an election they cannot sit out.

If Mr. Trump wins again, said Deon Lee, a volunteer at a get-out-the-vote event in Gadsden County, near Tallahassee, “it means that we didn’t come out in enough numbers, and we did not take seriously the impact of our vote.”

. Before the final day of early voting in the state, when many organizers were holding “souls to the polls” get-out-the-vote efforts aimed at African-Americans, Black Floridians who had already cast ballots were only slightly underperforming. They make up about 13 percent of the electorate and were close to turning out at that rate, according to Steve Schale, a Democratic strategist and executive director of a pro-Biden super PAC.

The number of Black voters is likely to grow because parts of the Black community traditionally prefer to wait until Election Day to vote: in a new New York Times/Siena College poll of Florida voters, 43 percent of African-Americans here said they would cast their ballot at the polls on Tuesday.

What’s perhaps most significant about the early vote, though, is that a group of new African-American voters have been energized: of the Black voters in Florida who’ve already voted, about 15 percent of them did not cast ballots in 2016 or 2018.

There are warning signs for Mr. Biden: Black voter turnout in Miami-Dade, the state’s largest county, is lagging. Cuban-American voters there appear energized and surveys indicate they are more supportive of Mr. Trump this year than they were four years ago.

“We didn’t have lines and they had lines,” said State Senator Oscar Braynon II, referring to voting sites with heavy Republican turnout in the first days of early voting.

Since then, turnout at Democratic-leaning sites has improved, he said on Friday, as he took a break for lunch in between shifts working outside the polls. A number of campaign events took place this past weekend, including Souls to the Polls gatherings in Black neighborhoods.

Given Mr. Biden’s greatly improved standing over Mrs. Clinton among older voters and college-educated whites, he may be able to overcome a drop-off with Florida’s Hispanic electorate — if he can drive strong Black turnout.

Florida is not only the largest but also the most complex of the traditional presidential battlegrounds, as much a collection of distinct city-states as a single cohesive place. Much like the state’s Hispanics, a diverse group of people with roots from the Caribbean and throughout the Americas, Black voters in Florida also reflect a range of identities.

There are African-Americans in agrarian-based communities across central and north Florida anchored in the church like their rural counterparts across the Deep South; Black voters across all income levels in large cities like Orlando, Tampa and Jacksonville; and a growing number of Caribbean-American migrants in South Florida who chiefly identify with their country of origin.

No matter their ancestry, however, many Black Floridians across the state expressed a common loathing of Mr. Trump, an animus borne of the conviction that he’s a bigot and because of his cavalier handling of the coronavirus crisis, which has disproportionately impacted African-Americans.

“Same energy, different motivation,” said Nwabufo Umunna, a Jacksonville lawyer, comparing this year to Mr. Obama’s elections. “This is more saving ourselves. Two things motivate people — fear and hope. This year, it’s fear.”

That was the case for Alicia Maxwell, a nurse who voted early last month at the Miramar branch library in Broward County.

As she cast her ballot, Ms. Maxwell, who is Jamaican-American and has tended to patients with the coronavirus, wore goggles, two masks and a shirt that read, “We choose science over fiction.”

“More lives would have been saved if the president, who gets firsthand information, had listened to the experts,” she said, adding that she would have cast a ballot for Mr. Trump’s opponent even if his rival “had been a ham sandwich.”

Democrats have lavished attention on South Florida, with Mr. Biden, Mr. Obama and Senator Kamala Harris of California repeatedly visiting in the final weeks. Mr. Bloomberg’s political arm has started airing footage from Mr. Obama’s rally in a new television ad aimed at the region’s voters. “Miami, I’m asking you to remember what this country can be,” Mr. Obama says in the footage.

Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris have both targeted communities with Black voters of Caribbean descent; South Florida is home to the largest number of Haitians in the United States, and no county in the nation has more Jamaicans than Broward. Jamaican-Americans make up the entire Miramar City Commission.

“In some ways, it has been easier than four years ago,” said Francesca Menes, a Haitian-Dominican American and the chairwoman of the Black Collective, a nonprofit organization aimed at uniting the Black diaspora. “At least the campaign has shown the commitment to our communities. In 2016, there were a lot of personal feelings and frustrations that people held about the Clinton family.”

Back then, some Haitian-Americans blamed Mrs. Clinton, former President Bill Clinton and the Clinton Foundation for some of the woes in Haiti, where the couple and the foundation did extensive work. But the Trump administration has since tried to end temporary protected status for Haitian immigrants and Mr. Trump has referred to Haiti with a disparaging expletive. 

Mr. Biden appeared to refer to those instances at the Little Haiti Cultural Center in Miami this month. “Wouldn’t it be an irony — an irony of all ironies — if on election eve, it turned out Haitians literally delivered a coup de grâce in this election?” he said.Picking Ms. Harris, the daughter of a Jamaican father and Indian mother, energized Black voters of West Indian descent, said Marlon A. Hill, a Jamaican-American lawyer in Miami who interviewed Ms. Harris on his weekly Caribbean radio show in September.

“The Caribbean vote always gets overlooked,” Mr. Hill said, noting that it could help offset the Republicans’ “firewall” of conservative-leaning Cuban voters.

This year, Mr. Hill said, “there’s some recognition that there needs to be greater investment in the layers of the community.” The Biden campaign has produced ads for Haitian Creole television, English-language Caribbean radio stations and Caribbean publications.In Gadsden County, about 500 miles to the northwest, a group of local African Methodist Episcopal churches have been organizing get-out-the-vote drives in a region that was once filled with tobacco farms.

Voters there said their status as the only majority-Black county in Florida gave them a unique sense of purpose: If anyone should lead the political rebellion against Mr. Trump, they said, it should be them.

“The divisiveness — the racial divide — it has motivated people of color, I think,” Belinda George, a local resident, said. “People have seen the consequences of sitting out. They’ve seen what’s going on.”

The region, which includes a number of the state’s mostly heavily Black counties, can sometimes be overlooked because of the better-known and more populous Black communities to the east and the south.

“Sometimes, for presidential candidates and small rural counties that look like us, the engagement piece is not always a priority,” Nick Fryson, a young organizer, said.In Gadsden, as is true in many Black communities across the country, there are two driving forces behind political mobilization; older Black voters are often reached through their churches, while the younger and more nonreligious population is targeted by a loose network of community groups and progressive organizations.

It’s the second of these that has been an explicit mission for the older volunteers. Powering through a trademark Florida rainstorm recently, many said they were encouraging residents to vote early and pushing an urgent message: Defeating Mr. Trump was personal, so ensure your vote will count.

At one point, a volunteer named Clydie Young posed the question of the moment to her 36-year-old daughter: “What do you think about Trump?”

“Am I allowed to curse?” Kahwani Young shot back. When her mother disapproved, she decided it wasn’t worth answering. “Then I’ve got nothing to say.”





No.31 article:
Tests Show Genetic Signature of Virus That May Have Infected President Trump

The White House did not take basic steps to investigate its outbreak. We worked with geneticists to sequence the virus that infected two journalists exposed during the outbreak, providing clues to how it may have spread.

President Trump’s illness from a coronavirus infection last month was the most significant health crisis for a sitting president in nearly 40 years. Yet little remains known about how the virus arrived at the White House and how it spread.

The administration did not take basic steps to track the outbreak, limiting contact tracing, keeping cases a secret and cutting out the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The origin of the infections, a spokesman said, was “unknowable.”

But one standard public health technique may still shed some light: tracking the cluster’s genetic fingerprints.

To better understand the outbreak, The New York Times worked with prominent geneticists to determine the genetic sequence of viruses that infected two Times journalists believed to have been exposed to the coronavirus as part of their work covering the White House.

The study reveals, for the first time, the genetic sequence of the virus that may have infected Mr. Trump and dozens of others, researchers said. That genome is a crucial clue that may allow researchers to identify where the outbreak originated and whether it went on to infect others across the country.

The White House has not disclosed any effort to conduct similar genetic testing, but the study’s results show that it is still possible, even weeks after positive tests. Additional sequencing could help establish the path of the virus through the White House, the role of a possible super-spreading event for Judge Amy Coney Barrett and the origin of an outbreak among the staff of Vice President Mike Pence in the last week or so.

The journalists, Michael D. Shear and Al Drago, both had significant, separate exposure to White House officials in late September, several days before they developed symptoms. They did not spend any time near each other in the weeks before their positive tests.

Mr. Shear traveled with Mr. Trump and other staff on Air Force One on Sept. 26, when Mr. Trump approached within five or six feet without a mask. Mr. Drago covered the Judge Barrett event that day and a news conference the next day near officials who were not wearing masks and later tested positive. Both journalists wore masks.

The viral genomes of the two journalists shared the same distinct pattern of mutations, the research found. Along with their exposure history, the findings suggest that they were infected as part of the broader White House outbreak, said Trevor Bedford, a geneticist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington who led the research team.

“These mutations that are possessed by these viruses are quite rare in the United States,” Dr. Bedford said. “I am highly convinced that these viruses come from the same outbreak or cluster based on their genomes.”

The study, which has been posted online but not yet peer reviewed or published in a science journal, followed academic protocols that require genetic samples to be anonymous. Mr. Shear and Mr. Drago chose to disclose their identities for this article.

Viruses constantly mutate, picking up tiny, accidental alterations to their genetic material as they reproduce. Few mutations alter how a virus functions. But by comparing patterns of mutations across many genetic sequences, scientists can construct family trees of a virus, illuminating how it spreads.

The genomes believed by these researchers to be connected to the White House outbreak do not identify a recent geographic source, in part because they are unusual. The ancestors of those viruses spread to the United States from Europe and were circulating widely across the country in April and May, but the trail goes cold after that, according to Dr. Bedford.

Geneticists said the genomes are a key piece of the puzzle that may spur future research to determine where the White House outbreak originated and where it may go next. Scientists collect and publish tens of thousands of new sequences of the coronavirus every month, and additional testing may fill in the picture.

The results show that even weeks after it was identified, the White House outbreak would be better understood by sequencing samples of more people who were infected. Swabs used in positive tests are often kept in labs for months after an initial infection, and genetic material for the coronavirus is stable if stored appropriately.

The C.D.C. routinely relies on genetic testing to help understand Covid-19 outbreaks elsewhere across the country. In a study released on Thursday, the C.D.C. cited genetic sequencing and intensive contact tracing that documented an super-spreading event at a high school retreat in Wisconsin.

But the Trump administration is not known to have conducted its own genetic analysis of people infected in the outbreak. The White House declined to respond to questions on genetic sequencing of Mr. Trump and the cluster of aides and officials who tested positive or became ill.

There is still a remote possibility, Dr. Bedford said, that a previously unseen version of the virus had been circulating undetected in Washington or Northern Virginia and infected both journalists independently from the White House cluster. More testing of the outbreak could eliminate that possibility entirely, he said.

Scientists not involved in the research who reviewed the results agreed with the conclusion that the two samples sharing rare mutations strongly suggested they are part of the same outbreak.

“These genomes are probably going to be identical or nearly identical to the genome that infected the president,” said Michael Worobey, head of the department of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Arizona.

Dr. Worobey disputed the White House’s characterization that the source of the outbreak could not be known.

“A lot of things are unknowable if you make no effort to know anything about them, and this falls into this category,” Dr. Worobey said. “All of these things actually can be known if you make the effort and you have the transparency that scientists are desperately trying to promote as we sequence hundreds of thousands of these genomes around the world.”

For months, the White House minimized the threat of the virus and eschewed basic safety precautions at official events, like wearing a mask or keeping people six feet apart.

At least 11 people who attended a Rose Garden celebration on Sept. 26 for Judge Barrett, which included an indoor event without masks, became infected with the coronavirus, including Mr. Trump. Additional genetic testing could help more clearly establish the role of that event.

Dr. Bedford and his colleagues were able to obtain a full genetic sequence for the virus that infected Mr. Shear and a partial sequence of the virus that infected Mr. Drago. Several unusual mutations matched in the two samples, sufficient evidence to determine with a very high probability that they were essentially the same genome, Dr. Bedford said.

The work was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of researchers at the University of Washington School of Medicine, the Hutchinson Center and the Brotman Baty Institute for Precision Medicine in Seattle.

The work is convincing, and it is the best way to piece together the progression of such an outbreak, said David Engelthaler, head of the infectious disease branch of the Translational Genomics Research Institute in Arizona, where he and colleagues have sequenced thousands of genomes to track the spread of the coronavirus, including devastating outbreaks at Native American reservations in the state.

“It’s critical no matter where we are to sequence this virus,” Dr. Engelthaler said. “Not just at the White House, but at the White Mountain Apache Reservation here in Arizona.”





No.32 article:
Make Some Noise and Move: A Choreographer Provides Instructions

“I really didn’t want it to be about the screen,” Yanira Castro said about adapting a work for the pandemic. Instead, she made scores to try at home.

About 50 people sat in front of their computers on a recent afternoon, banging on pots and pans with kitchen utensils. In a departure from common Zoom etiquette, everyone was unmuted and making as much noise as possible. What began as an attempt to find a synchronized beat quickly unraveled into clanging, joyful chaos.

This group activity, based on a choreographic score called “Thunderous Clash,” was an online introduction to a largely offline project, Yanira Castro’s “Last Audience: A Performance Manual.” Before participants left the Zoom event, they received a PDF of the score — basically a set of written instructions — so that they could try it in full on their own. (The complete “Thunderous Clash,” inspired by the form of pot-banging protest known as a cacerolazo, Spanish for casserole, calls for running and shouting with a large group of people, “for a good long time.”)

“Last Audience: A Performance Manual” is an effort to maintain the liveness of performance by handing over the instructions for a work’s creation. The manual, to be released in November by the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago, contains 28 scores from Ms. Castro’s 2019 work “Last Audience,” adapted so that anyone can try them at home. The scores involve everyday movement and household items — no dance training or elaborate materials required.

Ms. Castro, 49, a choreographer whose work often blurs the line between performers and spectators, had planned to bring “Last Audience” to MCA Chicago this fall. But as the coronavirus pandemic escalated in the spring, the museum began to rethink its fall programming without in-person gatherings.

Rather than canceling or rescheduling the engagement, Tara Aisha Willis, a curator of performance at the museum, invited Ms. Castro to reimagine “Last Audience” in an another format. While many choreographers were adapting to digital spaces, making dance films and Zoom dances, Ms. Castro felt herself pulled in a different direction.

“I’ve found watching dance to be really hard online,” she said in a phone interview. “There are times when it has made me cry, because I just want to be there.” For her project, she wanted people to have an experience “really rooted in their bodies.”

“I really didn’t want it to be about the screen,” she said.

“Last Audience,” which had its premiere last year at New York Live Arts, lends itself naturally to the form of a do-it-yourself manual. It relies on scores that can be written down, functioning as a script or stage directions. And it’s highly participatory, contingent on the active involvement of an audience, while also interested in audience refusal and ambivalence. The process of creating the manual, Ms. Castro said, “in some ways felt like the project becoming more itself.”

In the stage version, Ms. Castro and several members of her company, a canary torsi (an anagram of her name), guide participants through a series of scores that change with each performance. (The idea, she said, was to keep the performers “in a place of discovery with the audience.”) When I attended last year, I was asked to join a chorus whispering variations on the phrase “have mercy,” and to illuminate the space around me with a flashlight. The stage teemed with activity, as individuals and groups completed various tasks, or declined to take them on.

“It’s energetically a lot to negotiate,” said David Thomson, one of the performer-guides, reflecting on his role in the show. “It’s like having a party. Some people are bored, and you have to be OK with it, and other people are unruly.”

For the audience-participants, it was unclear what would happen next, or why; you were just along for the ride. The manual reveals much more, not only the scores themselves, but also some of the thinking behind them. Ms. Castro, who was born in Puerto Rico and lives in Brooklyn, began creating “Last Audience” in response to the 2016 presidential election and what she calls “a real reckoning for the country.” (She also notes how ubiquitous the word “reckoning” has since become.) But until assembling the manual, which includes writing by her and her collaborators — Mr. Thomson, Devynn Emory, Leslie Cuyjet, Pamela Vail and Kathy Couch, who was also instrumental as a designer — she wasn’t explicit about her intentions.

“I think many of us in the performance world have this training of not wanting to impede the interpretation, in any way, of the audience,” she said. “That means maybe not speaking to why you made something.” But as she drafted an introduction to the manual, in the tumultuous months before another election, she tried a new approach.

“I’m going to do that thing I never do, which is to say: This is why I did this piece,” she recalled thinking. “I’m going to tell you directly why, and it’s about slavery, it’s about genocide, it’s about our common American history.” In the introduction, she writes about her visceral feeling, four years ago, that these violent histories “had been dragged out into the public square, under stadium lighting, and we were all staring at the carcass.”

In grappling with this reality, Ms. Castro began researching requiems and Last Judgment imagery. (She describes herself as an atheist fascinated with religion.) The “Last Audience” scores often dictate postures and actions of supplication and prayer, like kneeling and trembling. They fall into five categories, reflected in the titles of the five booklets that make up the full publication: “One Body,” “Sever,” “Judgment,” “Mercy” and “Blessing.” Ms. Willis, the curator who worked closely with Ms. Castro, describes the booklet format as “somewhere between an instruction manual and a prayer book.”

While the project takes “an analog approach to the moment,” Ms. Willis said, it also has some digital components. An accompanying website, lastaudience.com, provides video and audio recordings to help with enacting some of the scores. Participants are also asked to document their performances with photographs of the household items or spaces they used — pots and spoons, for instance — and upload them to the website, where they become part of a publicly viewable archive.

Anyone who purchases the manual (which is also available as a PDF) is invited to join an online gathering on Dec. 13, around a meal of arroz con gandules (rice and pigeon peas), a Puerto Rican dish that Ms. Castro served before live performances of “Last Audience.” The manual includes a recipe, its own kind of score, so that anyone can make the dish and bring it to the Zoom table. The Chicago-based artist and chef Jorge Felix will join Ms. Castro and members of her company for a conversation about food and other forms of nourishment.

The online meal is also a chance for people to discuss their experiences with the scores, even if they have only read them. Ms. Castro said she has no fixed expectations for how people will use the manual. “It’s hopefully a gift that’s like, you can do this if you want,” she said. Some might choose to do the scores in full. But for her, “being present with the page” is also enough, its own kind of live experience.



No.1 article:
New Zealanders coming home for Christmas warned isolation hotels may be full

Military says Kiwis will be disappointed if they haven’t prebooked a place as hotels approach capacity

New Zealand’s isolation hotels are approaching capacity as the military warns there may not be room to house Kiwis planning to return home for Christmas.

Some 65,000 people have passed through New Zealand’s isolation accommodation since the borders closed in mid-March. Despite the facilities generally being four- and five-star establishments, there have been numerous escape attempts from them, and they have been denounced by a conservative US television host as “Covid camps”.

Now seven weeks out from Christmas, Air Commodore Darryn Webb, who is charged with overseeing the management of the hotels, has warned that many Kiwis will be disappointed if they haven’t prebooked their Christmas travels as the isolation accommodation available for that period is nearly at capacity.

This comes as a new system beginning Tuesday requires returning New Zealanders to have booked a place in a managed isolation facility in advance of boarding a flight home.

Since the March border closure, all arrivals have had to isolate for 14 days in one of these government-overseen isolation hotels until they test negative twice for Covid-19, on days three and 12 of their stay. There are also quarantine hotels, where arrivals testing positive for Covid-19, or with symptoms or recent contact with a suspected carrier, must stay for 14 days.

“Our message to people is ‘no voucher – no fly’,” said Webb. “If you don’t have a voucher, do not go to the airport because you will not be allowed to board a plane to New Zealand without one.”

“We’re already starting to see some periods where we’re booked solid,” Webb said.

“There is a finite number of rooms available. New Zealanders can still come home but anyone wanting to come home in the lead-up to the Christmas holiday period needs to make their travel plans early or they may not be able to come home on their preferred dates.”

The warning comes as public health experts criticise the management of the border, as another community case stemming from an isolation hotel emerged late yesterday.

The positive test was returned on Sunday by a staff member working at the Sudima hotel, near Christchurch airport, where international fishing crews are staying. Of the 237 mariners in the hotel, 31 are infected with Covid-19.

The Sudima worker is now in isolation at home. 

Public health specialist Professor Nick Wilson said the cycle of infection from across the border had to be stopped. “We’ve had six border failures since the start of August – and that includes the large Auckland August outbreak – so things are definitely not working properly,” Wilson told Radio New Zealand.

Wilson said people in isolation at Sudima were sharing rooms, which was a breach of normal quarantine practice, and other hotels had “shared airspace” and unsuitable ventilation systems.

“It’s not adequate that workers are being placed at risk … this is an area that needs an urgent review.”

But director-general of health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, disagreed that it was a border security failure: “This is another example of the system working well to protect our border. People don’t enter the New Zealand community until they finish quarantine after 14 days.”

The practise of double-bunking would, however, be reviewed before the arrival of another charter flight carrying foreign fishing crew. The flight has been delayed due to the worker’s positive test and availability of space at the hotel.

Unite union president Gerard Hehir said there may have to be an increase in quarantine times for large groups of international workers, and more testing for hotel workers.

“We’ve got to look after those workers ... not just in terms of their health. These are low-paid workers, so the risks they’re taking, we need to make sure that they are not under pressure to, for instance, not isolate because they might lose money.”

New Zealand has 81 active Covid cases. Its total number of cases is 1,607 including 25 deaths.

• This article was amended on 3 November 2020. References to quarantine hotels were changed, where applicable, to isolation hotels.





No.2 article:
Argentina expecting 10 million doses of Russia’s main experimental vaccine – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

 The Culture Secretary in England has confirmed arts venues can remain open for rehearsals during the country’s lockdown.

Oliver Dowden said while audiences will not be able to attend the venues they are “places of work” and will therefore be able to remain open.

Footage of performances taking place inside venues will also be permitted to be streamed online when tougher restrictions come into force in England, he confirmed on Twitter.

“Arts venues are places of work, so people can come into them for work, if it cannot be undertaken from home,” he wrote.

“This includes rehearsals and performance. Audiences are not permitted.”

A number of productions, including Les Miserables in the West End and a panto at the London Palladium, are due to return to the stage with socially distanced audiences over the festive period. 

Argentina is expecting 10 million doses of Russia’s main experimental COVID-19 vaccine between December and January, the government said, as infections continue to climb in the South American country.

The vaccine, known as Sputnik V, is given in two doses and could begin arriving as early as next month, the government said in a news release. The price of the Russian vaccine would be “more or less average” compared with others, President Alberto Fernandez said in the release.

“We had a proposal from the Russian foreign ministry and the Russian (Direct Investment) Fund to see if Argentina was interested in having doses of the vaccine in the month of December and of course we said yes,” Fernandez said.

The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) is backing the development and roll-out of the Sputnik V vaccine. Fernandez said talks with RDIF had been going on “for quite some time.”

Officials including Argentina’s deputy health minister had traveled to Russia to review the vaccine’s development, the government said.

“The Sputnik V vaccine for Argentina will be produced by RDIF partners in India, Korea, China and a number of other countries that are setting up a production of the Russian vaccine,” RDIF’s CEO, Kirill Dmitriev, said in comments shared by a company spokesman. 

The Labour party in England has called for Chancellor Rishi Sunak to engage in cross-party talks to produce a six-month economic support plan to guide the country through coronavirus.

Shadow chancellor Anneliese Dodds said the Treasury should “stop the last-minute scramble” and combine with opposition leaders, businesses and unions to draw up a long-term strategy.

Dodds has written to her Government counterpart after he announced on Saturday that, to coincide with the second national lockdown for England, the furlough scheme would continue in its current form, paying 80% of employees’ wages for hours not worked, up to a maximum of 2,500 per month.

In her letter to Sunak, she said the announcement “just hours before” the initial furlough scheme was due to end was “symptomatic” of what she said appeared to be a “lack of any strategic planning by the Government to support jobs and businesses”.

 Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa said he is pondering declaring a state of emergency as a preventive measure to fight the spread of the coronavirus at a time when infections are soaring.

Hours after Prime Minister Antonio Costa asked the president to declare the state of emergency, Rebelo de Sousa said in an interview with RTP Television he was considering the request, explaining it would include specific measures to combat the pandemic but not a “total or nearly total” lockdown.

The initial COVID-19 state of emergency, which under Portuguese law is limited to 15 days but can be extended indefinitely in 15-day periods if necessary, was declared in March and lasted six weeks.

It restricted the movement of people and led thousands of businesses to suspend activities, devastating the once-bailed-out economy.

“The economy cannot handle a (total) confinement,” Rebelo de Sousa said during the interview at his official residence. “What is being considered is a different thing.”If Rebelo de Sousa declares an emergency, lawmakers must approve it, which is considered highly likely.

On Saturday, the government introduced measures, such as the civic duty - a recommendation rather than a rule - to stay at home except for outings for work, school or shopping, across 121 municipalities including in the key regions of Lisbon and Porto.

A state of emergency would clear the way for compulsory measures such as restrictions on movement of people but only if and when needed.

The Premier League in England has confirmed four positive coronavirus tests have been returned from the latest round of testing.

The government has allowed Premier League football and other elite sports to continue during a four-week ‘circuit break’ lockdown, which will start in England on Thursday, due to the strict testing regimes in place.

In total, 1,446 players and club staff were tested for coronavirus between Monday, October 26 and Sunday, November 1.

Players or club staff who have tested positive will self-isolate for a period of 10 days.

In Australia, travellers from regional NSW are now able to go to Queensland for the first time in almost four months but Sydneysiders are still not welcome in the Sunshine State.

Travel restrictions eased at 1am on Tuesday (Australia time), with the Queensland border flung open to everyone except those in greater Sydney and Victoria.

The NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian is irate that Sydney residents are banned, arguing the bar Queensland has set for resuming free travel between the states is too high.

Meanwhile, Berejiklian has indicated a reopening of the NSW border with Victoria could happen soon.

We’re talking weeks not months in terms of when the Victorian border may come down, but that again is based on health advice,” she told reporters on Monday.

“I wouldn’t be surprised if we moved more quickly against Victoria than Queensland did against us.”

When asked if an announcement would be made this week, Berejiklian said “potentially, yes”.

Some of Germany’s top orchestras, including Berlin’s prestigious Staatskapelle and the Munich Philharmonic, staged protests on Monday, warning that coronavirus lockdowns pose an existential threat to the arts and entertainment industries.

Musicians from the internationally-renowned ensembles in Berlin and Munich, as well as the orchestra of the Bavarian State Opera in Munich, staged a minute’s silence at the start of their respective concerts.

And on Twitter, a wide range number of artists posted pictures of records turning without any sound.

They argue that not enough support is being made available to people in the sector as Germany shuts down its theatres, concert halls, opera houses and museums for the next four weeks as part of a wider tightening of measures to try to curb a second wave of Covid-19 infections.

Freelance musicians in particular are finding it difficult to survive as they frequently do not qualify for the furlough schemes introduced for paid employees in other sectors.

Culture Minister Monika Gruetters said she was “greatly concerned” for the industry.

“Even if the new restrictions are understandable” from a health point of view, they constitute “a catastrophe” for the sector, she said.





No.3 article:
Muammer Celik, one of the firefighters who saved Elif, said that when he reached her, she was lying motionless, and he thought she was dead. But as he reached out to wipe the dust off her face, the girl grabbed his thumb. 'She opened her eyes. I froze,' he said.





No.4 article:
Government sources say information was already public and wrongly labelled ‘official sensitive’

Labour has asked the cabinet secretary to “undertake an urgent and swift investigation” into the vaccines taskforce chief after it was claimed she showed US financiers “official sensitive” government documents at a $200-a-head conference last week.

Kate Bingham, the head of Britain’s vaccine taskforce, showed a detailed list of vaccines which the UK government is closely monitoring to a “premier webinar and networking event” for women in private equity hosted by a Massachusetts company, the Sunday Times claimed.

Bingham, a venture capitalist married to the Conservative minister Jesse Norman, was appointed to the role by Boris Johnson in May and reports directly to him. She combines her job leading the vaccine taskforce with her role as managing director of SV Health Investors, a private equity firm.

Government sources have suggested that the documents were already in the public domain and were incorrectly labelled by the government as “official sensitive”.

The prime minister’s spokesman said: “As part of her role she was taking part in close discussions with a wide range of pharmaceutical and manufacturing firms.”

According to a video of the event obtained by the newspaper, she showed financiers a detailed list of vaccines which the UK government was closely monitoring and could later invest in. Bingham said: “We haven’t necessarily signed contracts with all of them so far. But they’re all in our sights.”

Several of the vaccines are owned or funded by publicly traded companies.

Bingham also described the types of vaccine to which the government will turn its attention next. The “sort of thing we need” for midway through next year, she said, were “oral, transdermal, even intranasal” — applied through the mouth, skin and nose.

Rachel Reeves, the shadow chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster, wrote to Simon Case on Monday asking for him to launch a swift inquiry.

Among the questions Reeves has asked the cabinet secretary to address were whether any aspects of the information the chair of the UK government vaccine taskforce shared at this online conference were not already in the public domain; how the government might ensure that any unfair advantage given to participants or commercial delegates will be dealt with; and who in government was consulted before Bingham agreed to take part in the conference.

She continued: “Precisely who is the current chair of the UK government vaccine taskforce accountable to? Under what UK government code of conduct does this role fall? Will the government publish which code of conduct this is and the full details of it to reassure public confidence?

“What measures has government taken to both ensure transparency and prevent conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts of interest?”

The government released a statement stating that they were addressing inaccuracies in Sunday’s report, without specifically identifying the alleged inaccuracies.

“The fact of her appearance and the content of her presentation received approval from officials at the Department for Business, Energy &amp; Industrial Strategy in line with the process governing such engagements. Bingham focused on publicly available information and said little that expert delegates at the conference could not deduce themselves,” the statement said.





No.5 article:
At least 54 killed in Ethiopia massacre, says Amnesty

Victims mostly Amhara women and children and elderly people, say survivors

At least 54 people were killed in a rebel attack in Ethiopia’s restive Oromia region at the weekend, according to Amnesty International.

Survivors of the massacre counted 54 bodies in a schoolyard in the village of Gawa Qanqa, which was targeted late on Sunday by suspected members of the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA). Most of the victims were women and children and elderly people, according to survivors who hid in nearby forests.

The incident is likely to ramp up pressure on the prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, winner of last year’s Nobel peace prize, to improve security in a country struggling with ethnic violence.

The violence occurred in an area of western Ethiopia known as Wollega and involved up to 60 armed and unarmed assailants, the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) said.

It said the assailants targeted members of the Amhara ethnic group, Ethiopia’s second largest, and victims “were dragged from their homes and taken to a school, where they were killed”.

The EHRC said: “Official figures state a death toll of 32 civilians, but preliminary evidence obtained by the EHRC indicate the number is very likely to exceed that tally.”

Earlier on Monday, the Oromia regional government said the perpetrators belonged to the OLA, a group blamed for kidnappings and bomb attacks in western and southern Ethiopia.

A survivor from Wollega said the violence erupted after security forces stationed in the area abruptly and inexplicably left, allowing OLA fighters to round up civilians.

“After collecting us, they opened fire on us, and then afterwards looted cattle and burned down houses,” said the survivor, who spoke on condition of anonymity for safety reasons. “I have counted more than 50 corpses, and I know there were others hit by bullets.”

The EHRC called on authorities to investigate why the military withdrew from the area. “These gruesome killings of civilians are unconscionable and flout basic principles of humanity,” said Daniel Bekele, the head of the commission. “No amount of grievance can justify such brutality, and perpetrators should be held to account.”

The OLA, believed to number in the low thousands, broke off from the Oromo Liberation Front, an opposition party that spent years in exile but was allowed to return to Ethiopia after Abiy took office in 2018.

Separate attacks on Amhara civilians have recently been reported in two other regions. Authorities last week barred the National Movement of Amhara (Nama), an opposition party, from staging demonstrations denouncing the killing of Amhara civilians.

Dessalegn Chanie, a senior member of Nama, said “up to 200 Amharas were ruthlessly murdered” in the attack on Sunday, though he acknowledged the precise toll was difficult to pin down.

“According to survivors from the area whom I talked to earlier today, they are not sure about the count of deaths because they just ran [into the forest],” he said.

Abiy said security forces had been deployed to the area and were “undertaking measures” to restore order.





No.6 article:
Tanzanian government cracks down on opposition after disputed election

Chair of Chadema party arrested on terrorism charges before planned protests

Authorities in Tanzania have launched a wide-ranging crackdown on opposition parties, days after the country’s controversial leader, John Magufuli, was declared the winner of last week’s contested election.

Police detained Freeman Mbowe, the chairman of the Chadema party, on Monday, along with other senior party officials before planned protests against what the opposition claim was widespread electoral fraud.

Tundu Lissu, another prominent leader, was arrested outside a building housing Western embassies in Dar es Salaam, the largest city, where he had sought protection, and released after a police interrogation

Zitto Kabwe, a third opposition leader, told the guardian that he was in hiding.

“I know they are hunting me down. I don’t know when, but they are after us. It’s a massive crackdown,” he said.

Magufuli, who took power in 2015, won 84% of the vote in the presidential elections on 28 October, increasing his vote share by a substantial margin of 26%. Turnout was about 50%, officials said.

Officials said the opposition were planning violence and are holding Mbowe on terrorism charges, which preclude any possibility of bail.

The opposition want fresh elections and say they have planned only peaceful protests.

About 300 workers and activists from Chadema and the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT-Wazalendo) have also been detained or “abducted” in recent days, opposition officials said.

More than half that total has been recorded on the semi-autonomous archipelago of Zanzibar, and 37 in just two southern districts.

“We will not allow the repressive, illegitimate regime of John Magufuli to deprive us of our right to protest peacefully for the return of democracy to … Tanzania. We will not be deterred … The people’s voice will be heard. We will not relent in our fight to restore democracy in our land,” Lissu and Zitto Kabwe, leaders of the major opposition parties, said in a joint statement.

There is increasing international concern about the election, and the apparent deterioration of democracy in the east African country.

James Duddridge, Britain’s minister for Africa, said he was concerned by widespread allegations of interference and the reports of heavy-handed policing, including the arrest of opposition political leaders.

The US ambassador to Tanzania, Donald J Wright, said the reports of arrests were “extremely concerning”.

Supporters of Lissu said he had been turned away by US diplomats in Dar es Salaam when he sought ‘protection’ at the embassy there during Monday afternoon.

“They told him their ‘hands were tied’,” one supporter said.

Despite sporadic violence in the run-up to the poll and about 10 people being shot dead by police, millions filed into polling stations without incident on Wednesday to cast their votes.

The National Electoral Commission (NEC) said last week there was no evidence of irregularities, such as fake ballots, during voting.

However, the opposition published images of what appeared to be thousands of ballot papers and large numbers of returning officers’ statements of results that appeared to have been filled in before the vote. One bag was seized when it fell off a lorry.

Other observers noted allegedly unfair advantages for the incumbent, with the order of names on ballot papers changed to favour the president and ruling party.

Magufuli, whose forthright style has earned him the nickname “the bulldozer”, won praise when he came to power for his high-profile efforts to crack down on corruption and government spending. His brand of populist politics and promises of economic development have gained him a solid support base, especially in Tanzania’s vast rural areas.

At the weekend, he thanked voters for their support and said “[the] election is over and it is time for work”.

But the 61-year-old former chemist has also been accused of mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and growing authoritarianism.

International campaign groups have repeatedly voiced concerns about media freedom in recent months, and the opposition claims the NEC has systematically supported Magafuli and the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party (CCM) by disqualifying opposition candidates or ordering them to pause campaigning.

Last week, Tanzanians reported nationwide problems accessing social media platforms, including Twitter and WhatsApp in what critics said was a state effort to curb dissent by limiting people’s ability to communicate. Twitter confirmed that it had seen some “throttling” of its platform, while internet blockage monitor NetBlocks observed widespread disruption.

Magafuli appears to have won sufficient support in simultaneous parliamentary elections on the mainland and in Zanzibar to allow a two-term limit to be lifted, raising the possibility of his rule lasting for decades. He has previously denied any intention to change the constitution but analysts fear this has long been a goal.

The election is the fifth in the country of 58 million people since the reintroduction of the multiparty system in 1992, and took place against a background of strong rulers in Africa seeking to hold on to power through managing electoral processes and constitutional change. The CCM is sub-Saharan Africa’s longest-ruling party.





No.7 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Carolyn Fairbairn said second lockdown will be worse than the first for many businesses

British companies face the prospect of a “bleak mid-winter” according to the boss of the UK’s biggest lobby group, after high-street retailers, pub chains and airlines warned of the impact a second lockdown in England will have on their businesses.

Carolyn Fairbairn, the director general of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), said the latest English lockdown was in some ways worse than the first one, which started in March.

The new restrictions in England mean that non-essential shops and all pubs and restaurants will be forced to close from Thursday until at least 2 December. Domestic and international travel will also be banned, except for work, education or other legally permitted reasons.

“I’ve got to be really honest, there are ways in which this lockdown is also much worse,” said Fairbairn, speaking at the CBI’s annual conference before she steps down later this week. “Gas tanks are depleted, factories run down in so many businesses across the country, in retail, in hospitality. Our aviation sector is absolutely on its knees.

“We are heading into winter, a bleak midwinter. This is the run-up to Christmas. It is the most important time for so many firms.”

The government has extended its coronavirus job retention scheme until December, paying 80% of the wages of furloughed workers, but Fairbairn said the short extension would not give longer-term clarity for businesses looking to plan beyond the next month.

That criticism was echoed on Monday by other businesses who warned that they would be severely affected by the hastily announced restrictions.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Jonathan Neame, the chief executive of Shepherd Neame, one of Britain’s oldest breweries, criticised the government for a “fourth change of strategy affecting hospitality within the last six weeks”, in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

He said: “There is, I’m afraid, zero trust within hospitality about the government’s strategy at this moment in time and there’s a real sense that we’re going into lockdown for what is purported to be one month but in reality could be through to March. That would be absolutely catastrophic for the sector.”

Associated British Foods, the owner of Primark, said it would lose £375m in sales from the high-street clothing retailer because of the new English lockdown and other restrictions in key European markets. In an update on Monday it said that 57% of its shops would be closed temporarily from Thursday.

GVC Holdings, the owner of betting brands including Ladbrokes and Coral, issued a profit warning, estimating that the latest restrictions, including the closure of high-street branches in England and Europe, would cost it £37m.

The government also faced criticism over its handling of the lockdown announcement. The first leaks of the intention to impose a new lockdown were reported on Friday evening, after UK markets closed. The reports prompted a scramble from the government to flesh out the details of the lockdown, as well as confusion among businesses.

The boss of Britain’s biggest airport group, Manchester Airlines Group, hit out at the government for its “shocking” neglect of the aviation and travel industry, and accused the prime minister of “effectively shutting down his business” via Twitter.

Charlie Cornish, the chief executive of the group, whose remit includes Manchester and London Stansted airports, said airports would be forced to act quickly to secure their futures after the new travel ban.

callout-coronavirus

MAG is planning to cut 900 jobs. Cornish said urgent government support was needed to prevent more job losses in an industry that had been buffeted by “chaotic changes in policy” throughout the pandemic. No dedicated package of support has been given to aviation, despite early indications from the chancellor that specific measures would be considered.

Cornish said there had been no warning or discussion with the industry about the travel ban.

He said: “Given the huge impact on the hundreds of thousands of people working in the aviation and travel industry, it is shocking that the prime minister didn’t consider the shutdown of international travel worthy of mention … [but] symbolic of the way government has neglected UK aviation and the role it plays our economy from day one of this pandemic.”

The chief executive of the exercise chain PureGym said the decision to close gyms in England was “regressive” and would damage millions of users’ health. Humphrey Cobbold said the company, which will temporarily close 236 gyms, had written to the prime minister asking him to class gyms as an essential service, or else face the prospect of “significant closures” in the sector.





No.8 article:
Attack on Kabul University by Isis gunmen leaves 22 dead

Afghan government declares day of mourning after incident in which attackers shot dead

At least 22 people were killed and 22 wounded after Islamic State-affiliated gunmen stormed Kabul University as it was hosting a book fair attended by Iran’s ambassador to Afghanistan, taking hostages and fighting gun battles with security forces for more than five hours.

The Afghan government has declared Tuesday a national day of mourning following the attack. Three attackers shot at fleeing students and gunned down others in their classrooms in what was the second assault on an educational facility in the country in recent weeks. The gunmen were shot dead by Afghan security forces, authorities said.

On Monday evening, Isis took responsibility for the attack, claiming it had targeted a “graduation gathering for judges and investigators of the apostate Afghan government”. It named two men as responsible.

The attack began with an explosion at the gates of the university just after 11am on Monday that sent hundreds of students fleeing but left many others trapped inside. Photos shared by a senior government official showed students lying dead in classrooms, some next to their books. One student appeared to have been shot as they were climbing out of a window.

Ahmad Samim, who attends the university, told journalists he saw militants armed with pistols and Kalashnikov assault rifles firing at the school, the country’s oldest with about 22,000 students. He said the attack happened at the university’s eastern side, which houses its law and journalism faculty.

“God give patience, my classmates martyred and wounded in front of my eyes, and I am taken hostage,” wrote a student, Qaseem Kohestani, on Facebook.

Hours after security forces killed the attackers, relatives of students inside were still waiting for news of their loved ones. “I’m calling my son since the attack started, his phone rings but no answer,” one man told local television. “He just sent me a message in the very first minutes saying he was in a bad place and could not answer.”

Isis’s Afghan affiliate is strongest in the provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar but still have the ability to carry out high-profile attacks in Kabul including an assault on a maternity ward in May. They are adversaries of the Taliban, which has received limited US support in its campaign against the group in Nangarhar, cooperation that US military leaders have said they hope will expand if a peace deal with the Afghan government is struck.

The Islamic State in Khorasan Province in Afghanistan is strongest in the strategically important provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar. However, it still retains the capability to conduct spectacular attacks with near impunity in the Afghan capital, as demonstrated by the deadly attack on a Kabul maternity ward in May. ISKP has also experienced recent setbacks, including the killing of its top judge, Abdullah Orakzai.

It is unclear whether Iran’s top diplomat in Afghanistan was the target of Monday’s attack, although Tehran’s envoys have been targeted previously in attacks that nearly sparked a war between the two countries. In 1998, Iran held the Taliban responsible for the deaths of nine Iranian diplomats who were working in its consulate in northern Afghanistan and sent reinforcements to the 580-mile-long border the countries share.

Schools have been targeted for attacks in the past. Last year, a bomb outside Kabul University’s gates killed eight people. In 2016, gunmen attacked the American University in Kabul, killing 13.

Violence has been relentless in Afghanistan, even as the Taliban and a government-appointed negotiating team discuss the peace agreement to end more than four decades of war in the country. Progress in the talks in Doha has been painfully slow and despite repeated demands for a reduction in violence, it has continued unabated.

A US deal with the Taliban in February set the stage for the peace talks. The agreement also allows for the withdrawal of US and Nato troops from Afghanistan.

Also on Monday, a vehicle hit a roadside mine in the country’s southern Helmand province, killing at least seven people, most of them women and children, the provincial governor’s spokesman, Omer Zwak, said.

Reuters contributed to this report





No.9 article:
India rejects move by Imran Khan as it also claims border area of Gilgit-Baltistan 

Pakistan and India have been drawn into a fresh dispute following an announcement by the Pakistani prime minister, Imran Khan, that he will provisionally declare the border territory of Gilgit-Baltistan the country’s fifth province.

The strategic area bordering China and Afghanistan forms part of Pakistan-administered Kashmir – an area claimed by Pakistan and India, but controlled by Pakistan since the war of independence in 1947.

 Gilgit-Baltistan, for decades ruled by Pakistan’s central government, has no representative in the federal parliament and cannot bring cases to the supreme court, but making it a provisional province gives the region stronger constitutional and voting rights, more local autonomy and increased powers for its legislative assembly. 

“Administrative, political and economic reforms are a longstanding demand of the people of Gilgit-Baltistan,” said a statement by the Pakistan government.

For the state to officially become Pakistan’s fifth province, it would require an amendment to the constitution.

India, which claims sovereignty over the entire state of Kashmir, responded vehemently to the announcement by Khan, stating that it “categorically rejects” the move. India’s ministry of external affairs said “so-called Gilgit-Baltistan” was Indian territory and the declaration of the region as a Pakistan province was an attempt to camouflage an “illegal and forcible occupation” of the area.

The announcement by Khan is the latest escalation of tensions between India and Pakistan over the troubled territory of Kashmir. In August last year, India infuriated Pakistan by removing the special semi-autonomous status of Jammu and Kashmir – the part of the Kashmir region that falls on the Indian side of the border – and bringing the state fully under the control of the Indian government for the first time since partition.

The announcement by Khan also came less than a month before the 2 million people of Gilgit-Baltistan are to go to the polls for their legislative assembly, which currently has very limited powers.

The move has been seen as a clear attempt by the prime minister to win over voters at a time when the popularity of Khan’s ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party (PTI) is in severe decline amid economic collapse, record levels of inflation and increasingly united political opposition.

Many in the region viewed the announcement with scepticism and it was seen by some as a half measure, without committing to enshrining the change in the constitution.

Naveed Saleem, a student in Gilgit-Baltistan, said: “Khan is bluffing. This provisional status is not what we asked for. It still wouldn’t make Gilgit-Pakistan a constitutional part of Pakistan. We still can’t vote for the prime minister of Pakistan. We still can’t go to supreme court of Pakistan. It’s a joke.”

Shaan Mohammed Khan, an IT expert from the state, was similarly mistrustful. “Without a constitutional change, Imran Khan’s words mean nothing,” he said. “As general elections are near they are doing this only to increase their vote bank.”

The move is one that will particularly satisfy Pakistan’s close ally China. Beijing has been pushing for more stability and security for Gilgit-Baltistan as the region forms a crucial part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), an infrastructure project running through Pakistan, which is the flagship of Xi Jinping’s belt and road initiative.

“Given the depth of India-Pakistan tensions, this will certainly raise temperatures even more,” said Michael Kugelman, the deputy director of the Asia Program and a senior associate for south Asia at the Wilson Center.

“Pakistan has sought to make this change for quite some time, and with both Pakistan-India and India-China relations in deep crisis, the timing makes sense from a geopolitical context,” added Kugelman.

“It’s an opportunity to push back against New Delhi on two fronts: it delivers a blow to its claim to Gilgit-Baltistan, and it gives some momentum to a CPEC enterprise that India opposes.”





No.10 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

PM says failing to act risks ‘medical and moral disaster’ of overwhelmed NHS

Boris Johnson has sought to persuade mutinous Conservative backbenchers to support his plan for a new coronavirus lockdown across England, saying that failing to act now would risk the “medical and moral disaster” of an overwhelmed NHS.

Addressing the Commons about his plans for a four-week shutdown starting on Thursday, the prime minister also rejected the idea he had been too slow to act, saying it had been right to first try a regional system of different tiers of restrictions.

But in response, Keir Starmer accused Johnson of consistently being “too slow and behind the curve” in his decisions on Covid, which amounted to a significant failure of leadership.

While Labour has pledged to back the new measures in the Commons, all but guaranteeing they will pass, a number of Conservatives have expressed opposition to the planned closure of hospitality businesses and most retail, among other temporary rules.

But Johnson said scientific predictions about the “remorseless advance of this second wave” meant the lockdown was inevitable.

“Faced with these latest figures, there is no alternative but to take further action, at a national level,” he told MPs. “I believe it was right to try every possible option to get this virus under control at a local level, with strong local action and strong local leadership.

“And I reject any suggestion that we are somehow slower in taking measures than our European friends and partners.”

Directly addressing the Tory malcontents, Johnson said: “To those in this house who believe we should resist further national measures, let me spell out the medical and moral disaster we face.”

This would he said, lead the the “disaster” of the NHS being overwhelmed, affecting not just coronavirus patients, but those with other ailments and needs.

callout-coronavirus

He said: “The sick would be turned away because there was no room in hospitals. That sacred principle of care for anyone who needs it, whoever they are, and wherever, whenever they need it, could be broken for the first time in our lives.

“Doctors and nurses could be forced to choose which patients to treat, who would live and who would die.”

In response, some MPs said they would vote against the measures on Wednesday. Charles Walker, the senior backbencher who represents Broxbourne in Hertfordshire, said a negative vote was his only way of dissenting “as we drift further in to an authoritarian, coercive state”.

Another senior backbencher, Bernard Jenkin, said he would back “the bitter medicine” from the prime minister, saying: “Nobody has put forward a viable, immediate alternative that would avoid the overwhelming of the NHS.”

Jenkin asked Johnson to commission a white paper to set out a “plan for living with coronavirus”, and called for a revamp of the test-and-trace system, including a new boss to replace Dido Harding.

Johnson also sought to reassure his critics, saying support for self-employed people would be doubled from 40% to 80% of trading profits. This was, he said, not “the full-scale lockdown of March and April”, and he guaranteed parliament a vote on what happens next when the regulations expire on 2 December.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

But Starmer – who had advocated a two-week “circuit-breaker” lockdown coinciding with the just-ended half term – said the delay meant the measures would need to be longer and tougher.

“At every stage the prime minister has been too slow and behind the curve,” the Labour leader said. “At every stage, he has pushed away challenge, ignored advice and put what he hoped would happen ahead of what is happening. At every stage he has over-promised and under-delivered.”

Starmer said Johnson’s decision to reject the advice from his scientific advisers in September that a circuit breaker was needed amounted to “a catastrophic failure of leadership and of judgment”.





No.11 article:
Error meant users spent much longer next to infectious person before self-isolating

A code error in the NHS Covid-19 app meant users had to be next to a highly infectious patient for five times as long as the NHS had decided was risky before being instructed to self-isolate, the Guardian has learned.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The oversight in the app meant thousands of people were told they did not need to quarantine when they were in fact at risk of spreading coronavirus.

The problem was only discovered last week, when software engineers rewrote how the app decides who needs to isolate and discovered it had been relying on faulty maths since its launch in September. According to the Sunday Times, which reported on the flaw, a source said the fault meant that a “shockingly low” number of warnings were issued.

Despite claiming more than 19m downloads of the app, which is for use in England and Wales, the UK government has continually declined to reveal how many users have been advised to isolate. In Scotland and Northern Ireland, where similar apps have fewer users, more than 25,000 people have been warned of their possible exposure to the virus.

A Department for Health and Social Care (DHSC) spokesperson said the England and Wales version was “the only app in the world using the latest Google-Apple technology to better gauge distance to identify those most at risk, and is deemed ‘excellent’ by international standards.

“We anticipate more app users who are at high risk of having caught the virus will receive a notification to self-isolate, and that will be to everyone’s long term benefit by reducing the chances of those with the virus passing it on to others. We are very clear, everyone who is contacted will have been in close contact with someone who has a confirmed case of COVID-19.”

The root of the error, the Guardian has learned, was a decision to incorporate a measure of “infectiousness” into the app’s code. While the app was undergoing testing in the Isle of Wight, it used a simple metric that recommended isolation for anyone who had been in contact – closer than 2 metres – with a potentially infectious person for 15 minutes or more in a single day.

But shortly before the app was launched nationally, it was updated to account for the fact that people are most infectious shortly after their symptoms show. The maths was changed so that people outside that period of peak infectiousness counted for just two-fifths of the risk.

Since that meant the overall score was likely to be lower, the intention was to reduce the risk threshold correspondingly to ensure that someone of maximum infectiousness would need just three minutes of contact before they triggered an alert.

But that change never happened, and as a result, users were only told to isolate if they had spent 15 minutes close to a very infectious person, or nearly 40 minutes near someone who was pre-symptomatic but still thought to be shedding the virus.

The error was only discovered when a new version of the contact-tracing app, which can better account for exposures at mid-range (over a metre away) was created.

The unfeasibly high risk score also explained another problem plaguing the app: “ghost notifications” warning users that they may have been exposed to someone with Covid, but which never resulted in advice to isolate.

The app’s initial advice to users was that these notifications could be safely ignored, since they reflected a contact below the risk threshold; now that the NHS risk threshold is known to have been artificially low, one insider said, it is likely that the vast majority of those ghost notifications should in fact have been advice to self-isolate.

The new version of the app does away with them altogether: users will now only receive a notification if they are supposed to self-isolate.

“By removing these notifications, users can have the confidence that if they have a contact notification, they know it is from the app itself and based on the most accurate information available,” say Randeep Sidhu head of product for the test and trace app, and Gaby Appleton, the director.





No.12 article:
The lockdown rebels preparing to defy No 10 on Covid restrictions

From former Tory ministers to Nigel Farage’s Reform UK, the key figures standing against a second lockdown

As England braces for a second national lockdown, Downing Street once more faces a rebellion over tougher restrictions. Ahead of a Commons vote on Wednesday, several Conservative MPs are weighing up their options. Here are some key figures who may line up against the government and the broad camps they sit in, alongside Nigel Farage and his plan for a new anti-lockdown party.

Sir Graham BradyThe chair of the influential 1922 Committee of backbench Tory MPs is again a thorn in the side of the government, urging Boris Johnson to publish a full impact assessment on the costs and benefits of another lockdown. “We need clarity as to the years of life that will be lost or saved, the impact on mental health and the consequences for quality of life,” he wrote in the Daily Telegraph.

Brady, who successfully spearheaded a rebellion ensuring parliament got a vote on new nationwide restrictions before they are imposed, says any return to regional tiers or an extension of lockdown beyond 2 December must be approved in advance by MPs.

Reflecting on restrictions over the past seven months, Brady added: “If a totalitarian regime sought to tell people with whom they are allowed to have sex (you must be in an established relationship), whether you are allowed to visit your parents, or which categories of workers are allowed to provide for their families, we would denounce it as intolerable evil.”

Sir John RedwoodThe former Conservative cabinet minister has publicly questioned what the exit strategy is for lockdown. Tweeting on Monday, Redwood said: “The proposed lockdown will be damaging to livelihoods and business. The government should work with business to allow more to stay open … Why won’t the government advisers and NHS management give us believable forecasts rather than hugely wide and some wild illustrations of worst cases? Where are the accurate figures for NHS bed occupancy? How do they now define a CV 19 death?”

Iain Duncan SmithThe former Tory party leader believes England should have kept with the regional tiered lockdown strategy. “Trying, as far as possible, to keep the economy open whilst focusing on those areas with the highest infection rates wasn’t a perfect solution, but it kept people’s hopes up. Now those hopes have been dashed,” he wrote for the Daily Mail.

“I still feel, after seeing the Sage data, that we should have stuck with this plan – even increasing, if necessary, the levels of action in specific areas, as is now happening in Scotland. It seems harsh to punish the whole of England when many areas could be at tier levels which might well bring this under control.” 

Regarding Wednesday’s vote, he said: “I will need to be certain that the data is fair and accurate, leaving no other alternative, before supporting such a drastic step as full lockdown.”

Peter BoneThe veteran backbencher said the government’s localised approach to lockdowns “made a lot of sense”, telling the BBC: “Lock down in areas where the disease is very bad, but not in other areas – don’t wreck other areas where it’s not necessary. And I’m not quite sure why we’ve abandoned that, because there’s lots of areas in the UK which don’t have a problem at the moment.”

Bone, who has not decided how he will vote on Wednesday, highlighted concerns about another lockdown and called Brady’s suggestion that an impact assessment be published “very sensible”. 

Nigel FarageThe most openly anti-lockdown political voice is now coming from the former Ukip leader, who announced on Monday he was rebranding his later vehicle, the Brexit party, as Reform UK with an initial plan to seek an alternative path on Covid.

In a Telegraph article this weekend, Farage formally supported the Great Barrington Declaration – the proposal from an international group of scientists to allow younger and healthy people to return to normal life, while shielding the more vulnerable.

This has been disparaged by many epidemiologists, who say the idea of achieving “herd immunity” without a vaccine is unrealistic, not least given the doubts about how long Covid immunity lasts. With a general election years away, Farage seems likely at some point to rebrand Reform UK as a more general rightwing populist party, focusing on areas such as immigration, crime, and culture-war issues.

Esther McVeyThe former cabinet minister has come out against a new lockdown, saying she will vote against the measure on Wednesday. McVey wrote on Instagram: “The ‘lockdown cure’ is causing more harm than Covid. The world can not be put on hold, and the government must stop pressing the pause and stop button for the whole nation on a whim, with all the disastrous effects this brings to our lives, livelihoods, health and relationships.”





No.13 article:
PM was presented with some alarming data – with one model forecasting up to 4,000 Covid deaths a day next month

England is preparing to enter a second national lockdown after scientific advisers warned that coronavirus infections and the numbers of people in hospital are rising steeply in many areas of the country. But what is the science behind the decision?

The prime minister and two leading advisers, Sir Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientist, and Prof Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, made the case for a second national lockdown with a haul of data. They began with the rate of new infections, around 50,000 cases per day, according to the Office for National Statistics, but noted that an infection survey run by Imperial College, London, points to nearer 100,000 cases per day. They showed daily hospital admissions and deaths rising since the end of August. Medium-term projections from the modelling subgroup of the government’s scientific advisers, Sage, found that admissions could surpass those in the first wave by the end of November, with the death rate hitting 800 per day a week later. With no further action, hospital bed capacity would be overrun in December.

The data on infections and deaths is by no means perfect, but it was other data that caused most alarm. The advisers presented new modelling from several academic groups on the number of daily deaths England might expect from now until next summer. Many of the groups, such as Imperial College and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, predicted deaths rise to around 2,000 a day by the end of the year. Most striking was modelling from Cambridge University and Public Health England, which suggested 4,000 deaths per day in December. The figure has come under intense scrutiny which has highlighted the provisional nature of many modelling studies.

The Cambridge model differed from the others in important ways. While there are claims that the model looked at deaths 60 days after a positive test rather than the more common 28 days, this is incorrect. There is another reason the model was an outlier. The modelling, performed three weeks ago, used data on coronavirus deaths to infer how rife infections were when the people who died became infected some weeks earlier.

This infection rate, and the consequent deaths, were then projected forwards to February. The approach meant that the model showed how the epidemic six or more weeks ago might look if it continued to rage unabated. This led to a substantial overestimation of daily deaths.

Fed with recent data, the model is far more in line with the others Sage uses, with all estimating roughly 1,000 deaths per day by mid-December if no more is done to contain the virus. The models all point to the number of people in hospital and deaths exceeding those in the first wave without further action.

Government science advisers called for an immediate “circuit breaker” in September to stop the epidemic spiralling out of control. The three-tier system that was brought in instead was known, even at the most stringent tier 3 level, to be insufficient to bring the R value below 1 and push infections down. The result is a far larger epidemic that will take longer to bring back under control. In the next four weeks, it will be crucial for people to follow the new guidelines, which aim to reduce the amount of contact people have with one another. Scientists will be watching the R value, estimated each week, to look for signs that it is falling, but also infection rates and hospital admissions.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Researchers on the modelling subgroup of Sage use several data streams to estimate the national and regional R values. The number of new infections picked up by hospital and community tests, but also surveys run by the ONS and Imperial College, should be among the first to reveal whether infections are slowing. Other data also feed in though, from phone surveys that quiz people about the number of people they are in contact with, to mobility data compiled by Google and Facebook. Death rates will be the last to show any improvement: there may well be people infected this week who go on to die from Covid after the four weeks have passed.

Pushing R below 1 means the epidemic is shrinking, but it is not the only consideration. Scientists will also be watching for the prevalence, or total number of cases, to fall. If the number of people infected drops substantially over lockdown, and if the remaining infections are in those who rarely need hospital treatment, the lockdown could be eased before R is brought below 1.

The Sage modelling subgroup reviews coronavirus data constantly and reaches a consensus each week about the R value and the growth rate of the epidemic. These are passed on to Sage for broader discussion. As with all policymaking, the decision on how and when to ease the lockdown will be for ministers rather than Sage, but the committee will submit proposals for the next steps. Primarily, the experts will want to protect the NHS from being overwhelmed and keep deaths down as winter comes. But other factors will feed into their advice, such as the state of NHS test and trace, and planning for people, including students, moving around the country in the run-up to Christmas.





No.14 article:
Ventilation and masks are key to curbing Covid

Dr Jonathan Fluxman and Alan Sharples on the alarming lack of emphasis on ventilation in official guidance, Dr Louis B Quesnel on the safety of surgical-grade masks, and the Rev Rachel Larkinson on a more peaceful Christmas

Julian Tang’s article on the airborne spread of Covid-19 and the need to prioritise control of aerosol spread of the virus (Understanding ‘aerosol transmission’ could be key to controlling coronavirus, 28 October) raises important issues about official guidance on social distancing, ie the 2 metre and 1 metre-plus rule.

This states: “Try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not live with … Where you cannot stay 2 metres apart you should stay more than 1 metre apart, as well as taking extra steps to stay safe. For example: wear a face covering … move outdoors … if indoors, make sure rooms are well ventilated by keeping windows and doors open.”

This advice clearly needs to be revised. While the risk is greatest near to an infected person, as Prof Tang says, virus-containing aerosols float through the air, and people further away could also become infected in poorly ventilated indoor spaces.

In my work as a GP with the NHS 111 Covid service, I have dealt with patients who have become infected indoors while observing 2 metre distancing, in the pub or at work behind Perspex screens, but not wearing masks. They were surprised to learn that the virus can spread through the air further than 2 metres. Social distancing is vital, but official guidance surely must now also say that we should improve ventilation and wear a mask at all times in indoor spaces with other people.Dr Jonathan FluxmanLondon

• Why does the government only emphasise washing, distance and masks, but never good ventilation? It has been obvious to me from the start that poorly ventilated interiors, such as in small shops, have atmospheres that are viral soups. The lack of emphasis on ventilation is insane.

It does have consequences. If my local chip shop has eight people standing 2 metres apart, what good is that if they are all breathing in virus-laden air? Or let’s say a father visits his daughter, goes through the house into the garden, and they stand 2 metres apart. If the daughter is infected, he will catch the virus while walking through the house; if he’s infected he’s spread the virus inside the house.

The government’s new motto should be “ventilation, ventilation, ventilation”. Open doors and windows, and try to achieve a through-draught. Don’t get into a cab if the windows are closed; don’t enter a shop if the front door is not open.

We need to urgently investigate how air-conditioning systems interact with the virus. That information will have enormous economic import in the near future.Alan SharplesLiverpool

• The Which? report (The face mask test: which are the best at limiting the spread of Covid?, 30 October) usefully draws our attention to the number of poor and excessively expensive masks now appearing on the market. It is a shame that the government, back in March, belittled the usefulness of masks in protecting against infection and transmission of the Covid virus.

The Which? filtration data is based on measurement of mechanical particle penetration and not on efficiency in use by humans, and takes no account of leakage during use. Better in vivo experiments have been carried out as long ago as 1975 (see my paper The Efficiency of Surgical Masks of Varying Design and Composition, British Journal of Surgery, vol 62), where it was shown that four-ply cotton muslin masks were 96.7% efficient in blocking bacterial infectious particles (after allowing for leakage), and actually improved on washing. This was a standard type of hospital mask at the time, and was better than four other mask types made from synthetic materials. In modern classification they would probably be rated FFP2.

There is now ample scientific evidence that this grade of mask not only protects patients against viruses in droplet infection but is as protective against respiratory viral infection as N95 (FFP3) respirators. A study published last year, N95 Respirators vs Medical Masks for Preventing Influenza Among Health Care Personnel, found no difference between the protection afforded to wearers of either the mask or the (top grade) N95 respirator.

To state that surgical-grade masks do not protect the wearer is simply false. The importance of every person in every contact situation wearing a proper mask cannot be overemphasised. After total isolation, it is the most important means of preventing transmission of aerial infection.Dr Louis B QuesnelSalford

• Most years, around this time newspapers and magazines would soon be full of articles on how to cope with Christmas, about the pressure for perfection, the materialistic excess, the difficult in-laws, the drunken disputes and the ensuing debts. In the Covid environment, of course, everything seems different, so we find another way of longing for what we cannot have.

Talk of cancelling Christmas, that emotive phrase, must evoke a wry bitterness in those who have no family to see or who never meet up, for whatever reason, over the festive season. There is an irony in creating a hectic round of social engagements to mark the birth of one who came to bring peace to the world.

So perhaps we should use this year as an opportunity to simplify our celebrations, contact a friend or relative on their own and find a moment of quiet to contemplate the miracle of new life and the wonder of life itself. Even if it means the sacrifice of some happy moments, it will be worth it to save lives.Rev Rachel LarkinsonAndover, Hampshire

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.15 article:
Country aims to be one of first to test entire population of 5.4 million people for virus

Two-thirds of Slovakia’s population of 5.4 million people were tested for coronavirus over the weekend as part of a programme aimed at making it one of the first countries to test its entire population.

Antigen tests were carried out on 3.625 million people – of whom 38,359, or 1.06%, were found to be positive.

“We have made a great leap forward,” the prime minister, Igor Matovič, told reporters.

“But we should not think that because of this 1%, now all is fine. It is not,” he added. “In reality, up to 2% of our inhabitants might be infected. It is not at all a good situation.”

Antigen tests give far quicker results than PCR (Polymerase chain reaction) tests, which involve nasal swabs that have to be sent to a laboratory, but they are less reliable.

A further round of tests has been scheduled for next weekend.

Participation is not mandatory but anyone who is not able to produce a negative test certificate if stopped by police could be fined. Anyone who tests positive will have to go immediately into quarantine for 10 days.

Slovakia wants to be one of the first countries in the world to test its entire population. Smaller countries such as Luxembourg have already done so, as have some Chinese cities with larger populations than Slovakia, such as Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have originated from.

The government has hinted that virus restrictions could be eased once testing is complete, or reinforced if the programme is not carried out in full.

Like other countries, Slovakia has seen a sharp rise in coronavirus cases in recent weeks, although it is still below the EU average. On Monday, it reported 1,883 new cases, bringing the tally to 61,829.

A total of 219 people in Slovakia have died from the virus.

The programme has come under criticism for being poorly thought through, however. The Slovak Association of General Practitioners said the high concentration of people at testing sites was “at odds with the recommendations of infectious disease experts”.





No.16 article:
Australia’s economic dependency on China &#x27;will not change&#x27;, says former ambassador to Beijing

Geoff Raby argues the suggestion Australia can turn to other markets is ‘nothing other than wishful thinking’

Australia is likely to keep suffering economic harm from “repeated rounds of Chinese economic coercion” and needs to find a way to reset the relationship, a former ambassador to Beijing has warned.

Seafood exporters are the latest industry group to report disruptions in accessing the Chinese market and Geoff Raby, the Australian ambassador to China from 2007 to 2011, said Australia needed China more than the other way around.

Raby, in an interview with Guardian Australia, argued that Australia had joined itself at the hip with the United States over the past few years in seeking to resist China’s rise – an approach he believed went against Australia’s interests.

That is despite the Morrison government’s assertions – including at high-level talks in Washington in July – that Canberra is pursuing its own policy and is not doing anything to injure the important relationship with Beijing.

In a new book published on Tuesday, Raby suggests Australia’s strategy for managing the rise of China has been “incremental, reactive to others’ agendas, and as such, incoherent”.

He also says talk about Australia significantly diversifying its economic relationship with China by turning to other markets is “nothing other than wishful thinking”.

The complementarities between the two economies “are so profound that Australia’s economic dependency on China will not change” unless Australians choose to accept a major cut in their living standards, according to the book, China’s Grand Strategy and Australia’s Future in the New Global Order.

“Canberra hates this, but I start with the premise that it’s an asymmetrical relationship [and] whether we like it or not, we need China more than they need us,” Raby, who is also a former Australian ambassador to the World Trade Organization, said in the interview.

“It’s not a question of who’s right or wrong. Diplomacy and pragmatic foreign policy should be about getting outcomes and results that are in your interests.”

The Australian government has said it will not bow to economic pressure and is seeking to stand up for its values.

Raby questioned whether Australia’s interests were best served by the current situation “where we have exposed ourselves to repeated rounds of Chinese economic coercion”. He said while Australia should reject China’s economic coercion “that doesn’t mean they’re not going to keep doing it to us and we’re not going to keep paying the price”.

On Monday, the Morrison government called on Beijing to provide certainty to Australian rock lobster exporters, after several shipments were held up by customs authorities for further testing over the weekend.

The Seafood Trade Advisory Group, which represents seafood exporters on trade and market access issues, said there were positive signs on Monday “with the Chinese authorities undertaking additional testing over the weekend and confirmation that delayed consignments are starting to clear customs”.

The delays had fuelled fears that seafood could be the next Australian sector affected by trade tensions with China after barley, beef, cotton, coal and wine were all targeted by official or undeclared trade actions.

While it is difficult to quantify the cost of the trade war, Perth USAsia Centre research shared with Guardian Australia last week showed the total annual value of exports to China in the five industries affected by declared and undeclared sanctions was $19bn.

An additional $28bn worth of services exports could be at risk if Beijing’s warnings to its citizens against travel to Australia – based on claims of an elevated risk of racist attacks – prevents a post-Covid recovery in tourism and international education.

Raby likened the Australian government’s approach to the Black Knight, the hapless character from Monty Python and the Holy Grail.

“The Black Knight’s got his arms and legs chopped off and he yells ‘Come back you chicken’. We’re a bit like that. And I’m just calling for pragmatic, realist policy.” Australia needed to think about how it could offer a circuit breaker without selling out its interests, Raby said.

“It needs to be about changing the conversation with China,” he said. “Things that matter most to Beijing, I’d argue from a country like Australia, is recognising China’s territorial integrity, the legitimacy of the Communist party as the governing party of China and China’s ascendancy as a major power in the region and one that needs to be respected for that.”

In the book, Raby contends that recognition of China’s interests and its party-state are required for Australia to seek opportunities to engage with Beijing on issues such as the environment, water resources, energy, terrorism, transnational crime, cyberwarfare and the militarisation of space.

He lays out several other foundations for “a grand strategy” for Australia, including no longer taking for granted America’s preparedness to defend Australia. 

Canberra’s strategy should also include increased investment in Australia’s cultural diplomacy and soft power in the region, and a return to “activist middle-power diplomacy involving coalition building across a range of issues”.

Raby, an ambassador to Apec in the early 2000s, says regional states should seek common purpose when dealing with China “to remind Beijing that a push against one is a push against all”.

After serving as Canberra’s top diplomat in Beijing for four years until 2011, Raby has more recently provided advisory services to Australian and Chinese businesses. He is registered on the Australian government’s foreign influence transparency scheme as a board member of Yancoal, a resources company that is listed on the Australian stock exchange but majority-owned by a Chinese state-owned enterprise.

In the book, Raby criticises the Chinese government over “widespread internment camps” across the Xinjiang region and notes Xi Jinping’s “increasingly authoritarian control of domestic politics”.

“Having as our major economic partner a wilful, difficult, abrasive but nonetheless brittle and still weak power, one that is more comfortable with tyranny than democracy, but on which Australia’s economic wellbeing and security in the region rest, is the dystopian future that Australian policymakers will need to learn to navigate,” he writes.

Raby summarises the Chinese government’s strategic objectives as security for its borders, respect for its territorial integrity, and protecting the continued rule of the Communist party. He argues China is “a constrained superpower” that acts as “both a status quo power and a disruptor” and has a range of strategic vulnerabilities.

The vulnerabilities include China’s heavy dependence on other countries for the resources and energy it needs to fuel its economic growth, leaving it exposed to future disruptions in supply.





No.17 article:




No.18 article:
Russia&#x27;s &#x27;Sausage King&#x27; killed in Moscow in crossbow attack

Businessman Vladimir Marugov found dead after intruders broke into his home

Several intruders broke into a sauna at the home of a Russian meat tycoon known as the “Sausage King” outside Moscow early on Monday, tied him and a woman up and demanded money before killing him with a crossbow.

The woman managed to escape the attack in the Moscow region and alert the police but the businessman was dead when officers arrived at the scene, said the Investigative Committee, which positions itself as a Russian version of the FBI.

The agency did not name the deceased man in its statement, but REN TV and other Russian media identified him as Vladimir Marugov, owner of the “Ozyorsky sausages” and “Meat Empire” sausage factories.

Grisly and sometimes surreal murders often made headlines in Russia in the 1990s after the chaotic Soviet breakup, but have become less common since the current president, Vladimir Putin, came to power at the turn of the century.

The Investigative Committee said the intruders had demanded that Marugov hand over cash kept at his home and had fled in a car. It said investigators had found the murder weapon, a crossbow.

The getaway vehicle was also recovered, it said, in a village in the suburbs of Istra, a town west of Moscow where affluent Russians have country homes known as dachas and like to spend the weekends.





No.19 article:
Libertarians and conspiracy theorists join business owners in opposing new restrictions

Fresh lockdowns to stem the spread of coronavirus have sparked sometimes violent protests in several European countries, fuelled both by ideological fury at new government-imposed restrictions and fears of economic hardship.

As the number of infections surge and hospitals and intensive care units fill up, countries including Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain have once more introduced tough curbs on movement and gatherings.

But the measures are stirring resistance, not just among libertarians who see them as an assault on personal freedom and conspiracy theorists who say the virus is a hoax, but from business owners and independent workers worried for their future.

The protests suggest mounting dissatisfaction with governments’ responses to the pandemic and, amid a growing realisation that it will last for some time yet, alarm at the economic consequences even in countries such as Germany and France, where generous economic safety nets are functioning relatively well.

Italy, one of the hardest-hit EU countries this spring, has been the scene of violent protests for more than a week as the government brought in new measures including closing cinemas and theatres and ordering bars and restaurants to shut at 6pm.

There have been skirmishes between police and protesters in Florence and other cities, including Rome, Naples, Turin and Bologna, with clashes between riot officers firing teargas and demonstrators hurling Molotov cocktails, bottles and rocks and overturning bins.

The government is working towards yet tougher measures that could include a national 9pm curfew, a ban on inter-regional travel and the closure of shopping malls at weekends to try to slow an alarming rise in daily infections.

The interior minister, Luciana Lamorgese, said this weekend the protests involved “violent fringe elements” including football hooligans, far-right activists and neo-fascists trying to “exploit the social and economic discomfort of this difficult moment”.

But while polls show a majority of Italians support the latest restrictions, and the government has promised €5bn for the worst-hit professions including restaurants, taxi drivers and entertainment venues, peaceful protests by small business owners have also multiplied across the country.

Slogans brandished by demonstrators have included “Work is our right” and “If you close us down, you pay up.” Government compensation “doesn’t always arrive”, a Milan businessman told Agence France-Presse, and is “obviously not enough for the many who work wholly or partly in the informal economy. The winter will be hard.”

In Spain, which has has imposed a nationwide night-time curfew and implemented regional border closures, anger spilled on to the streets on Saturday for the second night running, with looting and vandalism breaking out in some cities.

Thirty-two people were arrested and 12 injured in Madrid after a protest over the region’s midnight to 6am curfew turned violent, and there were also demonstrations over the weekend in Barcelona, Málaga, Vitoria, Valencia, Santander and Burgos.

The prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, called for an end to “violent and irrational behaviour” by a minority. The protests have involved far-left and far-right groups, with the leader of the far-right Vox party, Santiago Abascal, saying there were “more reasons than ever to protest against this government, which is ruining us”.

Police in Belgium, which announced a second lockdown on Friday, broke up an unauthorised anti-lockdown protest in Brussels a few days earlier, while in Berlin, a crowd of about 2,000 including far-right activists and anti-vaxxers joined a rally last Monday demanding an end to all coronavirus restrictions.

“We are here and we are loud because we are being robbed of our freedom,” the marchers chanted. The same day, an attempted arson attack was reported against the national disease control and prevention agency, the Robert Koch Institute, while on Wednesday thousands of artists and entertainment workers demanded more support.

The chancellor, Angela Merkel, announcing a new “soft lockdown” from Monday with bars, cinemas and theatres closed and cafes and restaurants allowed only takeaway service from Monday, described people arguing Covid-19 as dangerous and irresponsible, but said the government expected to face similar “protests and, let’s say … incomprehension” for some time to come.

In France, which has also entered a second, more relaxed lockdown, small protests numbering no more than 100 or so marked the occasion on Thursday night in several cities including Paris and Toulouse. In Castres, about 80km east of Toulouse, local shopkeepers brandished a banner reading: “Upright today; on our knees tomorrow”.

Shopkeepers have complained about being forced to close while supermarkets, because they also sell food, are allowed to sell “non-essential goods” such as shoes, clothes and beauty products.

In a gesture of appeasement, the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said on Monday that supermarkets would face the same limits on selling non-essential goods, but insisted shop owners may not challenge the lockdown rules.

Officials have said European economies, already devastated by lockdowns in March, April and May, will take a further hit from the second series of closures, even though the new measures are mostly not as strict and many companies are better equipped to deal with them.

Le Maire said last week he expected France’s economic activity to fall by 15% during the new lockdown, about half the downturn it suffered this spring. But economists have warned consumer behaviour in particular is likely to be dampened by the fear of further lockdowns before life returns to normal sometime next year.





No.20 article:
Peter William Geddes, who was playing in Plaça Nova on 31 October, said as the violence escalated in the background he felt peaceful: 'When I play I am very calm. No nerves.'

Anti-lockdown protests have been ramping up across Europe as many countries head into more stringent Covid-19 lockdowns





No.21 article:
Coronavirus global updates

President plays up to chants of ‘Fire Fauci’ at curfew-breaching Florida rally

Coronavirus global updates

Donald Trump threatened to fire Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease expert, during a midnight rally in Florida 24 hours before the presidential election.

As crowds at the Miami Opa-Locka airport chanted “Fire Fauci”, Trump allowed the chants to continue for several seconds before responding: “Don’t tell anybody, but let me wait until a little bit after the election. I appreciate the advice. I appreciate it.”

He continued: “Nah, he’s been wrong on a lot. He’s a nice man though. He’s been wrong on a lot.”

Fauci, 79 and one of the world’s foremost infectious diseases experts, has served under six presidents over three decades as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. He is one of the lead experts on Trump’s coronavirus taskforce and has frequently offered frank public health guidance in contrast to the president’s repeated falsehoods on the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic.

In a hard-hitting interview with the Washington Post published on Saturday night, Fauci said the US should prepare for “a whole lot of hurt” under the coronavirus pandemic and predicted a winter of 100,000 or more cases a day and a rising death toll.

“It’s not a good situation,” Fauci said. “All the stars are aligned in the wrong place as you go into the fall and winter season, with people congregating at home indoors. You could not possibly be positioned more poorly.”

Trump’s rally in Florida, a critical swing state he needs to hold to win the election, was held as Covid-19 cases in the state continued to surge. Like countless Trump rallies there was no social distancing and thousands of attendees did not wear masks.

Miami-Dade county, where the event took place, has a midnight curfew to mitigate the spread of the virus. The county ordinance states the curfew is “necessary to safeguard life and health, as parties and gatherings late at night have the potential to spread Covid-19”. Trump’s speech continued well past midnight and attendees were still leaving after 1am.

The rally was Trump’s fifth event of the day, in a packed schedule that saw him visit five states as the election reached its final day of campaigning. Polls showed Trump behind in Florida by an average of 2.2%, foreshadowing a close race.

On Monday morning, the Democratic nominee, Joe Biden, responded to Trump’s comments on Twitter.

“We need a president who actually listens to experts like Dr Fauci,” Biden posted.

More than 9.1m cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in the US and more than 230,000 people have died, marking one of the worst per-capita death rates in the world.

Daily case counts vary but agree that on Friday the US set a world record for cases in a single day, between 99,000 and 100,000, as numbers surge in several states, many of them electoral battlegrounds key to control of the White House.





No.22 article:
No 10 said restrictions will expire on 2 December unless Commons opts to continue them

Boris Johnson has been forced to quell a rising Conservative mutiny over England’s new national lockdown by pledging to give MPs the chance to block any extension beyond 2 December.

Tory MPs said they had been “spooked” by suggestions from ministers that the four-week lockdown could be extended should the infection rate remain high. Senior MPs have asked to see the full economic impact assessment given to the cabinet before they vote on the new restrictions on Wednesday.

On Monday, Conservative whips, government scientists and Johnson increased their private efforts to contain any rebellion, in what one MP called a “day of propaganda”.

The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, also intensified his attacks on the government’s decision to delay a national lockdown – and blamed the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, for blocking an earlier “circuit breaker”, which Starmer said could have saved lives.

“Forty days later, when [the prime minister] finally decided to announce a longer, four-week national lockdown … figures had increased to 326 deaths a day, and 22,000 Covid cases. That is the human cost of the government’s inaction,” Starmer told the CBI conference.

In a direct attack on Sunak, he added: “The impact on business, and jobs, will be severe. Make no mistake, the chancellor’s name is all over this.”

Labour will back the new restrictions, meaning the government will not risk losing the vote. But there are fears in Downing Street about the potential embarrassment of any future vote depending on Labour support to pass, if enough Conservatives decide to rebel.

Sir Graham Brady, chair of the 1922 Committee of backbench Tory MPs, who is likely to vote against the government, said: “I think it is essential that the government should publish a full impact assessment of its proposed lockdown before MPs are asked to vote on Wednesday.“We know from experience that lockdowns don’t defeat the virus, they merely defer its spread, and the cost is substantial in terms of jobs destroyed, businesses that will fail, mental health – especially for the young – and other health consequences which mean lockdowns cost lives as well as saving them.”

Charles Walker, the vice-chair of the 1922 Committee, predicted there would be just 15 Conservative rebels for the vote but said there was “huge disquiet on the Conservative benches”, which could cause issues later down the line.

“I will be voting against the legislation on Wednesday because I’m fed up of having decent people criminalised,” he said. “But I expect the whips’ office will pick off a number of other heretics to make sure they are at worst abstaining or even better, in the government lobby supporting them.”

One Tory MP from the former Labour heartland “red wall” areas, said despite deep scepticism they planned to back the new lockdown. “I just honestly don’t see what the alternative is. I hate it, it’s awful, but what else can you do? I think a lot of colleagues feel like that.

“Going forward, we need to see more of the data and scientific advice they look at and accept or reject in the decision-making process. What are the economic impact projections that they consider? How are the decisions actually made?”

One MP, who has not rebelled previously on Covid-19 legislation, said a vote to extend the lockdown could be “bruising” for the government unless there was “seriously convincing evidence that there was no other alternative”.

MPs will get a vote on what replaces the lockdown restrictions before they expire on 2 December. “The intention of the government is to go back to the tier system on a local and regional basis,” Johnson’s spokesman said.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Should the R (reproduction) number continue to be above 1, Johnson will be under pressure to continue the harsh restrictions.

The spokesman said the government would examine the data throughout the four-week lockdown. “We believe the package of measures is tough enough to get the R … down again and allow us to go down to that regional approach,” he said.

Earlier on Monday, Sunak refused to rule out the coronavirus lockdown lasting longer than its intended four weeks, a reiteration of what his cabinet colleague Michael Gove said over the weekend.

Speaking in the Commons, Johnson sought to persuade mutinous Conservative backbenchers to support his plan for a new coronavirus lockdown across England, saying that failing to act now would risk the “medical and moral disaster” of an overwhelmed NHS. The prime minister also rejected the idea he had been too slow to act, saying it had been right to first try a regional system of different tiers of restrictions.





No.23 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Owners face £10,000 fine after publicly vowing to flout closure due to begin on Thursday

Businesses including a beauty salon near Liverpool are vowing to remain open and defy England’s lockdown when it comes into force on Thursday.

Companies face a £10,000 fine if they refuse to comply with restrictions ordering the closure of pubs, restaurants, hairdressers, gyms and all non-essential retailers.

Regulations setting out the new laws in England are due to be published on Tuesday before being put to a vote by MPs on Wednesday. If passed, as expected, the measures would come into effect at 12.01am on Thursday. While the vast majority of businesses are expected to comply with the rules, a small number have publicly vowed to flout them.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The beauty salon in Bootle, Merseyside, whose owners have denied the existence of coronavirus, said it would open as usual on Thursday and fight any fine through the courts. A message on the Instagram page of Skin Kerr said: “We will not be locking down again. We will remain open. We will fight this and any fines in a common law court.”

The owner of the salon previously described the pandemic as a “bullshit voodoo virus” and displayed posters saying: “You can’t catch what doesn’t exist,” as well as banning masks and “Covid talk”.

The salon did not respond to a request to comment. It posted a clip on Instagram on Sunday of the conspiracy theorist David Icke calling Covid-19 “a scam” and urging businesses to “simply refuse to lock down”.

A martial arts gym in Wigan has also vowed to stay open. In a Facebook post, the Majestic Gym claimed it was “cleaner and safer than any supermarket, fast food outlet or anywhere else that is allowed to stay open” and called on other businesses to “refuse to obey the tyranny”.

From 2 December, England will be divided into three different tiers of restrictions. They are slightly amended from the previous system.

Across all tiers, shops, personal care, gyms and the wider leisure sector are set to reopen. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume.

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The&nbsp;“rule of six”&nbsp;will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers.

Under the new system, although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve substantial meals can operate. It means pubs and bars that do not will have to close.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport in tier 2, with a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of the capacity of the stadium or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close.

How was it before?

In the “high” alert level tier people were prohibited from mixing socially indoors with anybody outside of their household or support bubble but the rule of six remained in place outdoors. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could open until 10pm but people were only allowed to visit with their household or support bubble.

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Outdoor sports, including golf and tennis, will be allowed to continue in all tiers, as will amateur team sports such as football. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

How was it before?

In the most restrictive tier, known as the “very high” alert level that was endured by vast swathes of the north of England, mixing socially indoors between households – unless a support bubble was in place – was banned. Under baseline measures hospitality venues serving substantial food could remain open until 10pm. Up to six people from different households could socialise outdoors in public spaces, such as parks, beaches or public gardens.

Kevin Harper, the gym’s owner, said his facility was “cleaner than an operating theatre” and that gyms were “as important as churches, hospitals, pubs and restaurants” so should be allowed to stay open.

He said he would fight any fine and “clog the legal system”. “I’ve not broken any laws. I have not injured anybody. I have not hurt anybody. That will be my legal argument. And on Thursday morning when I open up at 9.30 the police will be here, I guarantee, and I welcome them. These are not criminal matters. It’s preposterous.”

Harper, who has run the gym for 12 years, falsely claimed that there was “no categorical scientific proof that coronavirus even exists” but that he had a rigorous safety process in place, including temperature checks on arrival, strict social distancing and a “50-page risk assessment”.

callout-coronavirus

He added: “When we did that first lockdown, I nearly went bankrupt. I can’t afford to do that again. I’m not being selfish, I’m being realistic. I’ll switch salaries with the prime minister, if he wants to take my £750 a month that I’m currently getting. I’m not going to be able to survive. I’ve got children. My wife’s pregnant. I’ve no choice but to stay open.”

Police chiefs are bracing themselves for potentially worse compliance among a weary public than during the first lockdown. Officers across the UK were called out to rule-breaking raves and house parties over the Halloween weekend.





No.24 article:
Study suggests white blood cell levels higher in people who had symptoms

Cellular (T-cell) immunity against the virus that causes Covid-19 is likely to be present within most adults six months after primary infection, with levels considerably higher in patients with symptoms, a study suggests.

The data offers another piece of the puzzle that could be key to understanding whether previous Sars-CoV-2 infections – the virus behind Covid-19 – can prevent reinfection, and if so, for how long.

The study, led by the UK coronavirus immunology consortium, evaluated 100 non-hospitalised healthcare workers in March and April after antibody responses were detected in them. It is yet to be peer-reviewed.

It is the first study to offer data on T-cell levels six months after infection in people with mild or asymptomatic disease that is likely to represent the majority of infections, the authors say.

The results of the study are likely to be viewed positively, after previous studies suggested antibody levels can decline within the first few months post-infection.

Data released from a 100,000-person sample in August indicated about 6% of the population of England had antibodies – proteins produced in response to an infection – but antibody levels dropped by more than a quarter in three months, researchers revealed in late October.

Once the virus enters the body, it is greeted by a cavalry of cells that mount a counterattack that is swift, broad and generic. This so-called innate immune system is meant to arrest the infection in its tracks. If that mission is foiled, it buys time until the “experts” show up.

These experts constitute two types of white blood cells: B-cells and T-cells, that work like brothers-in-arms. If the virus makes it past the initial assault, some T-cells are slayers, annihilating respiratory cells the pathogen has colonised. 

Meanwhile, helper T-cells take on a supportive role – including stimulating B-cells to produce molecules called antibodies that render the virus immobile or thwart it from penetrating other cells. The adaptive system also retains memory – but in the case of Covid-19, it is unclear how much and for how long.

After being tracked for six months, researchers found that every person had detectable T-cell levels, and levels were 50% higher in people who had experienced symptoms at the time of infection.

This could mean that either there will be more protection in people with more severe initial disease, or conversely, that people with asymptomatic disease are able to control the virus with lower levels of T-cells, they said.

A bigger set of patients would be tracked for a longer time period to a get a better sense of cellular immunity, given that T-cells could survive for long periods, said one of the study’s authors, Paul Moss, a professor at the University of Birmingham.

The authors also saw that T-cells levels were strongly correlated with the peak level of the antibody response. Cellular immune responses could even help to protect against the decline in antibody levels over time, they added.

Overall, the results offer evidence that T-cell immunity may last longer than antibodies – but whether these persistent T-cells offer protection against reinfection remains unclear.

“I think this data is reassuring, potentially even encouraging — but it does not mean that people cannot get reinfected,” Moss said. “We now need large-scale population studies to show how the antibody and cellular profiles act together to protect people over time.”

In the study, some people lost detectable levels of antibodies. But that did not mean that B-cells, which make antibodies, were not around to spring into action if challenged again, the authors explained.

Ideally, testing for B-cells and T-cells in the community would provide a conclusive idea of how much the antibody response was actually predicting large-scale immunity, and whether there were people who did not have antibodies but were protected by cellular immunity, cautioned the author Shamez Ladhani, a consultant epidemiologist for Public Health England.

“But at the moment, there is little evidence to suggest that there is widespread cell-mediated immunity without an antibody response.”

Paul Morgan, a professor at Cardiff University, who was not involved in the study, said: “The work provides a welcome dose of optimism that Sars-CoV2 infection (and immunisation?) can induce a robust and sustained protective immune response, although this does not yet prove immunity to further infections which will require longer-term surveillance and larger cohorts.”





No.25 article:
New restrictions have begun across Europe, many greeted by protests

The head of the World Health Organization has gone into self-quarantine after someone he had been in contact with tested positive for Covid-19.

With the virus again spreading rapidly across Europe and elsewhere, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who is based in Geneva, made the announcement by Twitter late on Sunday night, but stressed he had no symptoms.

“I have been identified as a contact of someone who has tested positive for Covid-19,” Tedros said in his tweet.

“I am well and without symptoms but will self-quarantine over the coming days, in line with @WHO protocols, and work from home,” he added.

Tedros has been at the forefront of the UN health agency’s efforts to battle the pandemic, which has claimed the lives of 1.2 million and infected more than 46.6 million people worldwide since emerging in China late last year, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University.

He stressed on Twitter that “it is critically important that we all comply with health guidance. This is how we will break chains of Covid-19 transmission, suppress the virus, and protect health systems.”

Countries across Europe reintroduced or strengthened existing lockdown measures on Monday.

Germany went into “lockdown light” mode, with bars, cinemas, theatres, museums, fitness studios and swimming pools closing and cafes and restaurants allowed to offer takeaway food only. Meetings in public have been restricted to two households or no more than 10 people. Unlike during the first lockdown in the spring, schools and nurseries will stay open.

The new “wave breaker” restrictions will for now only apply until the end of the month, but the government is not ruling out an extension. On Sunday, the health minister, Jens Spahn, called on the public to prepare for “months of restrictions and abstinence”.

The chancellor, Angela Merkel, told a news conference on Monday that Germany was still some way off an end to the pandemic but if people respected the restrictions over the next four weeks “then we will be able to have the conditions for a tolerable December.”

“Throughout the winter months, we will have to limit private contacts,” Merkel said. “The light at the end of the tunnel is still quite a long way off.”

Italy will tighten its restrictions but is holding back from reintroducing a nationwide lockdown, its prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, said, as infections, hospital admissions and deaths rise.

Conte told Italy’s parliament tougher measures, including curbing travel between the worst-hit regions and a night-time curfew, were now needed.

Italy’s daily tally of infections has increased tenfold over the last month and hovered around 30,000 in the last few days, while hospital admissions, intensive care occupancy and deaths have also risen steeply.

“Despite our efforts … the evolution of the epidemic in the last few days is very worrying,” Conte said, adding that intensive care units would be overwhelmed in 15 of Italy’s 20 regions by next month unless tougher action was taken.

“We must intervene with more stringent measures,” he told the Chamber of Deputies, saying the country would be divided into three areas depending on the risk level, with certain places facing tighter restrictions than others.

Meanwhile, Portugal’s prime minister, António Costa, asked the country’s president to declare a state of emergency as a preventive measure to fight the spread of the virus

The last Covid-19 state of emergency, which under Portuguese law is limited to 15 days but can be extended indefinitely in 15-day periods if necessary, was declared by President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa in March and lasted six weeks.

“It is a critical moment and declaring the … emergency will reinforce the civic awareness of the sanitary emergency we are facing,” Costa told reporters, adding the move was likely to last much longer than 15 days.

The president was expected to proclaim the emergency in a televised address on Monday evening and then parliament would then have to enact it – both are considered formalities.

The weekend was marked by street protests against further restrictions on daily life, including in Italy and Spain, where the prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, called for an end to “the violent and irrational behaviour” of a minority of people after demonstrations against the government’s decision to declare a six-month state of emergency.

On Sunday night more than 300 people gathered in the centre of São Paulo, Brazil, to protest against state governor João Doria’s support for mandatory Covid-19 immunisation and testing the potential vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac. The country’s health minister, Eduardo Pazuello, who is ill with Covid, remained in hospital on Sunday night after having been discharged from a civilian facility earlier in the day.

Anti-science sentiment was also on display in the US, where supporters of Donald Trump at a campaign rally in Florida on Sunday night began chanting “Fire Fauci” – and the president hinted that he may do so after the election.

The hostility towards Dr Anthony Fauci, the US government’s leading expert on infectious diseases, comes after he angered the White House by warning that the coming winter would see the virus continue to spread. Two weeks ago, Trump suggested that Fauci was an “idiot”.

Reuters contributed to this report





No.26 article:
Almost 1 million people evacuated from path of 2020’s most powerful typhoon

Thousands of homes and buildings are feared damaged or destroyed following a devastating typhoon that slammed into the Philippines on Sunday, causing mudslides and flooding.

Almost 1 million people were evacuated from the projected path of Typhoon Goni, the world’s strongest typhoon this year, which struck the country with gusts of up to 310km/h (190mph). The death toll stood at 20 on Monday.

Manila escaped the worst of the storm, but provinces south of the capital were badly affected. In Virac, on Catanduanes island, home to more than 70,000 people, the Red Cross estimates that as many as nine in 10 homes have been either damaged or destroyed. Electricity, water and phone networks were cut off across Catanduanes, a province of 275,000 people, while many roads were inaccessible. 

In Albay province, more than 300 homes are believed to have been buried under volcanic rocks, representative Zaldy Co, of the Ako Bicol party-list, said in a statement. Ten people in the province have reportedly died.

The Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, was due to conduct an aerial inspection of the worst-affected areas on Monday. He has been criticised for not appearing at a press briefing on the national response to the typhoon, which is among the most powerful to have hit the country since Haiyan killed more than 6,300 people in 2013.

“The goal should be zero casualties but since people were forcibly evacuated our casualties were reduced,” said Harry Roque, spokesman for Duterte.

Across Luzon, the country’s largest and most populous island, about 2.1 million residents were affected by Goni, with more than 50,000 homes left without power on Monday.

The Philippines is already struggling to cope with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, and the typhoon has exacerbated the strain on resources. The Philippines has one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in south-east Asia, with more than 383,000 cases and more than 7,200 deaths.

“This typhoon has smashed into people’s lives and livelihoods on top of the relentless physical, emotional and economic toll of Covid-19,” said the Philippine Red Cross chairman, Richard Gordon.

Goni was the fourth typhoon to hit the Philippines over the past month, and comes just a week after typhoon Molave, which killed 22 people and forced 120,000 people to flee to safety. Another storm, Atsani, has been gaining strength as it approached the Philippines.

On Wednesday night, Goni is expected to make landfall on the central coast of Vietnam, where about 160 people have been killed in floods and landslides triggered by storms over the past month.





No.27 article:
Egyptian NHS doctor stricken by Covid seeks visa reassurances from Home Office

Dr Basem Enany has treated many coronavirus patients but believes he faces removal from the UK 

An Egyptian NHS doctor who became critically ill after complications from contracting Covid-19 has spoken for the first time about his fears of being removed from the UK by the Home Office while he lay in his hospital bed on a ventilator.

Dr Basem Enany, a locum consultant cardiologist at York teaching hospital, had treated many coronavirus patients. He was placed on a ventilator after developing Guillain-Barré syndrome, a rare complication of Covid-19 and other viruses, which has left him partially paralysed. He can now breathe unaided but believes he has a long rehabilitation journey ahead of him.

“At first I had the usual symptoms of Covid – cough, fever, loss of taste and smell – but then I began to develop a weakness throughout my body. Then I was no longer able to move and couldn’t breathe properly.” he said. “I had never seen this happen in any of the Covid patients I had treated and had to research my symptoms as they were so unusual.”

He has a work visa that is due to expire next month. He and his wife, Marwa Mohamed, believe they and their four young daughters could face removal from the UK as he is unlikely to be well enough by December to renew the visa.

While Enany has regained partial use of his hands, his legs remain paralysed and he is waiting to be moved from Leeds general infirmary to a specialist neuro-rehabilitation facility. “I was not sedated on the ventilator and was lying awake in my hospital bed thinking: ‘Oh my God, my visa is about to finish,’” he said.

Enany thanked the dedicated NHS workers who have been looking after him and the more than 4,000 people who have made donations to a crowdfund that will pay for his legal and medical bills. Any remaining funds will be donated to research into Covid-19 and into Guillain-Barré syndrome.

While the Home Office has said it had no plans to deport the family, Enany does not know what kind of replacement visa he will receive, how long it will be for and whether it will allow work.

While Enany thanked the Home Office for its reassurances, he said: “We still don’t have any solid documents in our hands and my visa will expire soon.”

A Home Office spokesperson said: “We’ve spoken to Dr Enany’s family to reassure them that their immigration status is not in jeopardy and they are not facing enforcement action. They are here entirely legally and have every right to remain the UK. We will continue to work with them to find a way forward. Our thoughts remain with Dr Enany and his family at this difficult time.”

On Friday there will be the second reading of a private member’s bill from THE Liberal Democrat MP Christine Jardine calling for indefinite leave to remain to be granted to migrant NHS workers who have cared for patients during the pandemic. In her presentation of the bill she says that these NHS workers will be vital during the second wave of the pandemic.





No.28 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Labour leader says chancellor Rishi Sunak’s ‘name is all over’ decision not to act earlier

Keir Starmer has said the government’s delay in calling a second coronavirus lockdown in England will cost lives and singled out Rishi Sunak for blame, saying the UK chancellor’s “name is all over” the decision to reject earlier tough measures.

In a speech to the annual conference of the CBI, the Labour leader said that while it would be wrong to blame the government for Covid, “I do blame it for the way it’s been handled – and I can’t forgive the catalogue of mistakes that have cost lives and livelihoods.”

In the middle of last month, Starmer called for a two-week “circuit breaker” for England to curb the spread of the virus, and coinciding with the half-term holiday for schools.

It followed the publication of documents that showed that the government’s scientific advisers had called for such a lockdown in September. Ministers rejected this, but changed course on Friday after forecasts indicated that without further action the number of Covid deaths over the winter could significantly exceed those in the first peak.

Addressing the CBI – Boris Johnson had also been due to address the business organisation on Monday, but pulled out to focus on a Commons statement about the new plan – Starmer said that when the scientists recommended the circuit breaker, on 21 September, there were slightly more than 4,000 daily infections and 11 deaths.

“Forty days later, when [the PM] finally decided to announce a longer, four-week national lockdown, those figures had increased to 326 deaths a day, and 22,000 Covid cases. That is the human cost of the government’s inaction,” Starmer said.

In a direct attack on Sunak, he added: “The impact on business, and jobs, will be severe. Make no mistake, the chancellor’s name is all over this. His decision to block a circuit breaker, to dismiss it as a ‘blunt instrument’ and to pretend that you can protect the economy without controlling the virus will now mean that businesses have to close for longer, more people will lose their jobs, and the public finances will be worse than they needed to be.

“It makes me so angry and so frustrated that when the British people – and British businesses – have given so much and made so many sacrifices, they have been let down so badly by the government.”

Starmer said Sunak needed to also address parliament on Monday, to fully explain the package of support for businesses and employees during the new lockdown, which begins on Thursday and is due to last for four weeks.

He said: “One of the things I’ve learned from this crisis is that it exposes leadership like nothing else. On that count the prime minister and the chancellor have failed. They failed to learn. They failed to listen. And they failed to lead. The result is tragic – but all too predictable.”

callout-coronavirus

The Labour leader also castigated Johnson for potentially failing to reach a full Brexit trade deal with the EU, bringing the possibility that the chaos of a winter Covid peak could be exacerbated by full departure on 31 December without a final deal.

“The prime minister said he would get one,” Starmer said. “In fact, he said he had one. So he should get on with it. Stop fuelling uncertainty at the worst possible time and secure the deal he promised.”





No.29 article:
We’d like to speak to people across the UK about how they have been affected by isolation under lockdown restrictions, and what has helped them to cope

As part of the second national lockdown which will be imposed in England on Thursday, people will be prevented meeting from other households except under specific circumstances.

We’d like to speak to people who live in England about any concerns they may have about isolation under a second lockdown, and how they plan to manage it.

We’d also like to hear from people in Wales about how they have coped with isolation during the country’s firebreaker lockdown, and those in Scotland and Northern Ireland who are unable to meet other households indoors.

You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you wish or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.30 article:
Rescuers pulled the girl, Elif, out of rubble 65 hours after quake that has killed at least 85 people

A three-year-old girl was rescued from a collapsed building in the western Turkish city of İzmir on Monday, nearly three days after a powerful earthquake in the Aegean Sea that has killed at least 85 people.

Rescuers pulled the girl, Elif Perinçek, out of the rubble, then took her on a stretcher to an ambulance as emergency crews searched for survivors in eight other buildings.

Elif’s two sisters and brother were found alive in the wreckage along with their mother on Saturday, but one of the children later died.

“A thousand thanks to you, my God. We have brought out our little one Elif from the apartment block,” Mehmet Güllüoğlu, head of Turkey’s disaster and emergency management authority (Afad), wrote on Twitter.

Fourteen-year-old Idil Sirin was also removed from the rubble on Monday after being trapped for 58 hours. Her eight-year-old sister, Ipek, did not survive, NTV television reported.

Afad said the death toll had risen to 83 in İzmir - making it the deadliest quake to hit Turkey in nearly a decade. Two teenagers also died on the Greek island of Samos, authorities said.

A total of 994 people had been injured in İzmir and around 220 people were still being treated for their injuries, Afad added.

About 20 people were still believed to be in the rubble of one of the city apartment blocks where searches were continuing, broadcaster CNN Turk said.

It was the deadliest earthquake in Turkey since one in the eastern city of Van in 2011 that killed more than 500 people. A quake in January this year killed 41 people in the eastern province of Elazığ.

Turkey is crossed by fault lines and is prone to earthquakes. In 1999, two powerful quakes killed 18,000 people in north-western Turkey.

Friday’s earthquake, which the Istanbul-based Kandilli Institute said had a magnitude of 6.9, was centred in the Aegean Sea, north-east of Samos. There have since been nearly 1,200 aftershocks, Afad said.

More than 3,500 tents and 13,000 beds have been supplied to provide temporary shelter in Turkey, and nearly 8,000 personnel and 25 rescue dogs were involved in rescue and relief work, according to Afad.





No.31 article:
We would like to hear about the people in your everyday life whose acts of kindness have brought you hope this year

It’s been a bleak year for many of us, thanks to Covid-19. But despite the cataclysmic global events and the pandemic itself, kindness has thrived and community bonds have tightened. 

Some people have led the way, from Marcus Rashford to NHS key workers. But we’d like to hear about the people in your everyday life, whose acts of kindness, or quiet heroism have brought you hope in 2020.

You can get in touch by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.32 article:
Metro train overran stop, coming to halt 10 metres above ground on huge plastic tail

A metro train that overran the stop blocks at a station outside Rotterdam has been left balancing 10 metres above ground on the plastic tail of a whale sculpture.

The metro driver was reportedly able to free himself from the train without injury after the incident shortly after midnight on Monday morning. There were no passengers onboard.

Maarten Struijs, who made the sculpture of two tails emerging from water beneath the elevated metro line, said he was surprised the sculpture had held together.

He said: “I could never have imagined it that way, but it saved the operator’s life. The damage is an afterthought.

“I am amazed that it is so strong. When plastic has stood for 20 years, you don’t expect it to hold up a metro train.”

The artwork was erected in 2002 by the De Akkers station in Spijkenisse on the outskirts of Rotterdam, in the Dutch province of South Holland. It is made of reinforced polyester. Its original name was Whale Tails – but within hours of the train incident the local authority renamed it Saved by a Whale’s Tale.

The emergency services were seeking to secure the scene on Monday. “Given the complexity, this will take some time,” a spokesman for the Rotterdam-Rijnmond safety region said. “It will be quite an exercise to get that thing off and get it safe.”

It was as yet unclear what caused the train to overrun the station.

• This article was amended on 5 November 2020 to explain that the whale sculpture began life with a name different from the one hastily bestowed by the local authority after the train incident. 





No.33 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Scientist says delay in imposing tougher restrictions likely to have cost thousands of lives

Rishi Sunak has refused to rule out the new coronavirus lockdown lasting longer than its intended four weeks, as one of the scientists advising the government said delays in imposing tougher restrictions were likely to have cost thousands of lives.

Asked whether he could guarantee the lockdown across England, which begins on Thursday, would be lifted as planned on 2 December, the UK chancellor was less definitive.

“Our expectation and firm hope, on the basis of everything we know today, is the measures we have put in place for the time they will be in place for, will be sufficient to do the job we need, and we will seek to exit these restrictions back into a tiered approach at the end of the four-week period,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

Asked whether, even if the toughest restrictions were lifted over Christmas, this would not be followed again by a rolling series of national lockdowns over the rest of the winter, Sunak again said only that his “hope and expectation” was the four-week period would be sufficient.

Boris Johnson will make a Commons statement on the new plan on Monday afternoon, amid a mutinous mood among some Conservative MPs, both about the new lockdown and the government’s wider handling of the crisis.

The prime minister had been due to address the CBI annual conference this week, but has now reportedly withdrawn.

Sunak defended the government’s delay in imposing national restrictions, despite its scientific advisers advising in September that ministers should impose a two-week “circuit breaker” to limit the spread of infections, something Labour subsequently also called for.

“We’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared,” he said. “It’s the last thing we wanted to do, bring in such restrictive measures.”

He added: “If you think back to a few weeks ago, I firmly believe that the right approach was a regional, tiered approach. I think the evidence supported that,”

Speaking earlier on Today, Andrew Hayward, a professor of infectious disease epidemiology at University College London, who is a member of the new and emerging respiratory virus threats advisory group, (Nervtag), which advises ministers, said the delay would have severe consequences for both health and the economy.

Hayward, who was among the scientists who sought an early circuit-breaker, but was speaking on Today in a personal capacity, said the government had “repeatedly underestimated Covid and done too little, too late”.

He said: “We can’t turn back the clock but I think if we had chosen a two-week circuit break at that time [in mid-September], we would definitely have saved thousands of lives, and we would clearly have inflicted substantially less damage on our economy than the proposed four-week lockdown will do.”

This could be said with a “high degree of certainty”, Hayward said: “We know that this sort of measure, whereby we shut down multiple areas of transmission at the same time. is the single most effective way of stopping the virus from spreading. And we know very clearly that the earlier you do that, the more lives you will save.

“Waiting to see if less intense measures are going to work is really quite a dangerous way of doing things.”

Asked whether schools should have also been shut for the new lockdown, Hayward said that given the extent of coronavirus transmission in secondary schools, not doing so would require a longer national closure.

Speaking to Sky News, the shadow health secretary, Jonathan Ashworth, said the party supported schools remaining open, but had sought a lockdown to coincide with the just-ended half term so as to boost its effectiveness.

Ashworth castigated the government for dismissing the idea of a half-term circuit breaker: “They told us in the Labour party we were opportunistic, and came on shows like yours and ridiculed us.

“The consequence of that delay is we are now on the eve of a longer lockdown, and a more restrictive lockdown than perhaps would have been necessary had we just done that short circuit break earlier.”

In his interview, Sunak said there were “reasons for cautious optimism” about Covid in the longer term, citing better treatments for the virus, research on vaccines, and the approach of mass testing.

callout-coronavirus

On testing, he declined to commit to measures that could improve compliance with people self-isolating, such as higher or more widespread statutory sick pay.

Sunak said support for self-employed people would be boosted during the lockdown, along with the extension of the furlough scheme for those in jobs.





No.34 article:
Chinese flyovers towards Taiwan peaked in October amid rising tensions

Increase in sorties comes amid reported unease in Taipei over softer China stance if Joe Biden wins US presidency 

China’s military sent planes towards Taiwan on 25 of the 31 days of October, the highest frequency of the antagonistic sorties all year, a Taiwanese monitoring group has said.

The report comes as the Taiwanese government seeks to hose down reports that it is concerned at the prospect of Joe Biden becoming the next US president and taking a more conciliatory approach to China than Donald Trump.

The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has ratcheted up military activity in and around the Taiwan Strait this year, amid increasing hostilities with Taiwan and the US. Beijing considers Taiwan to be a wayward province and has not ruled out taking it by force.

Citing a local monitoring group, Taiwan’s Liberty Times said the PLA had invaded Taiwan’s air identification zone on at least 25 days last month. Taiwan is building up its defence capabilities to discourage any possible cross-strait conflict, and has spent more than $1bn this year in scrambling jets to respond to the sorties towards and over the so-called “median line” in the Strait. But analysts say the prospect of defending itself against an invasion would rely on outside assistance.

While the US has a longstanding policy of refusing to says if it would come to Taiwan’s aid in the instance of an attack – in order to deter both sides – it has increased its military activity in the region and its arms sales to Taiwan under Trump, amid a broader push back against Chinese dominance in the region.

Taiwan’s government has been forced to reject media reports by the Washington Post that some within the government feared a Biden-led administration would be less supportive of Taiwan. Taiwan’s representative to the US, Hsiao Bi-khim, said on Sunday the government did not take positions on US elections.

“Since arriving in Washington, I have reached out to new friends and old friends in both parties, and I appreciate the bipartisan support and friendship for Taiwan,” she said.

The US stance against Chinese aggression has won Trump support among the Taiwanese public, where a recent YouGov poll found 45% of respondents thought his actions had had a positive impact on their region, while a third thought the impact had been negative. It found Trump was supported by 42% of Taiwanese people compared with Biden’s 30%, the only Asian population polled that supported Trump over Biden.

The US considers Taiwan an important barrier to China’s control in the Indo-Pacific and has increased diplomatic and other support this year, despite not having formal ties. The former US defence official Randall Schriver last month described the island as a “modern-day Asia Fulda Gap”, referring to the region between East and West Germany that was considered the most likely place for a US-Soviet Union Cold War clash.

PJ Crowley, the former assistant secretary of state for public affairs under Barrack Obama, told the Guardian the deterioration of US-China relations was “arguably the most consequential development” in geopolitics during Trump’s term.

“Regardless of who is president come January, there will be an assessment of what has occurred in Hong Kong and what it means for Taiwan,” Crowley said.

“If Vice President Biden wins, he will need to make clear to [China’s president] Xi [Jinping] hat he will become more active with respect to Hong Kong and Taiwan … Maintaining the high-level dialogue with Taipei would be one way to demonstrate that what happens there remains important to the United States.”

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.35 article:
We would like to hear what you learned from the lockdown in March and your thoughts on the one in November 

With a national lockdown expected across England to start this week, we would like to hear how you plan on approaching it.

Is there anything you learned from the lockdown in March that you would do differently this time around? Tell us about the ways you’re planning to get through it. 

You can get in touch by filling in the form below or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.36 article:
For the sake of Cameroon, life-president Paul Biya must be forced out

The country should be rich, but millions live in dire poverty. France must stop supporting the president and his electoral ploys

On 6 December, Africa’s oldest serving leader, Paul Biya, and his ruling party, Cameroon People’s Democratic Movement (RDPC), will be declared the winner of the country’s first ever regional elections.

That much is clear, and is expected inside and outside of the west African country – Biya has misruled with an iron fist for nearly 40 years. But the question we should be asking, but as yet have not, is what this means for Cameroon’s 25 million people. In my view the answer is more poverty, more violence, more corruption and more suffering. This should compel us all to act.

As Africa’s largest producer of timber and the world’s fifth-largest producer of the cocoa, Cameroon should be a rich country.

But Biya’s life-presidency, corruption and use of indiscriminate violence as a first resort have made Cameroon a country in crisis; on a downward trajectory I fear the world will only wake up to when nobody is left to save and Biya is too frail to stand trial.

Since independence from France in 1960, Cameroon has been ruled by one party and two presidents. Biya, who “won” his seventh term with more than 70% in 2018, has been in power since 1982, before 75% of the population was even born. His current mandate will expire in 2025 when he’ll be 92. He is planning to run again.

A vote for regional councils has been promised since 1996. So why is Biya is rushing to organise it now, in a middle of a coronavirus pandemic as well as a local separatist war that has, according to the Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Africa, killed more than 4,000 people and internally displaced a further 500,000?

Simple. Because Biya is trying to deflect local pressure and international criticism for his misrule and abuse. The way I see it, Biya is losing the argument against the English-speaking south-west and north-west regions who want to create an independent anglophone state to free themselves from this despot.

In 2017, the longstanding tensions between Biya’s Paris-backed regime and the English-speaking regions morphed into an all separatist conflict. The English-speaking regions want to succeed from Cameroon. Even I, someone who is against post-independence separatism in Africa, cannot help but think how they could not.

Biya has turned Cameroon into a highly authoritarian and fascinatingly corrupt country. It actually earned Transparency International’s No 1 ranking as “the world corruption champion” two years in a row, in 1998 and 1999.Many Cameroonians live in dire poverty. According to the World Food Programme, 40% live below the poverty line. Another estimated 6.2 million are in need of humanitarian assistance. That’s 25% of the population. The renewed escalation of violence by Boko Haram in Nigeria and the Lake Chad region is adding to the suffering.

The terrible irony of Biya’s ploy to deflect attention is that the elections will exacerbate the longstanding grievances of the English-speaking communities. After nearly three years of separatist violence, the two sides are currently at an impasse. For me, the best way forward for peace and for the reunification of Cameroon is to force out Biya, whose tentacles pry into every aspect of the country, choking life and talent. But France, the former colonial power, is still betting on one of its leading African strongmen and his electoral ploy, even though everyone knows it will not be free, fair or transparent.

For France, the rebel regions’ ongoing struggle is an unforgivable sin against FranceAfrique, still recovering from the locals’ rejection of the CFA Franc. Secession in Cameroon could kill FranceAfrique. But, in doing so, France is strengthening the separatist’s strongest argument that Cameroon’s institutions represent only Biya and his corrupt, Paris-backed, Francophile elites who exploit the region’s resources and kill with impunity. This is why I think the poll will become a flash point, resulting in an escalation of the violence which persists, especially in opposition stronghold English-speaking regions where rebels have banned voting.

Cameroon’s stabilisation should have started in 1992 after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war when Biya reluctantly adopted a multiparty system. But his greed and obsession with power has rendered this impossible. So long as Biya is in power the violence or corruption will not stop soon. Cameroon will continue on the downward trajectory that has characterised it for almost 40 years. Just how many more lives and dreams must a dictator like Biya destroy before France stops supporting him and his electoral ploy?

• Vava Tampa is a freelance writer, focusing on Africa’s great lakes, decolonisation and culture





No.37 article:
Ed van der Elsken's crazy world – in pictures

Recognised as one of the most influential photographers of the last century for his raw street-style images of daily life, Ed van der Elsken’s working archive has been acquired by the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum, and includes unseen images in an unpublished photobook, Feest (“to party”), which provides insight into his approach





No.38 article:
Time at a Standstill: Spain's lockdown experience – in pictures

Time at a Standstill is a digital project that brings together the work of 42 photographers who explore the experience of el confinamiento in a country becalmed by coronavirus and isolation. The project can be viewed on the PHotoESPAÑA website





No.39 article:
Monday briefing: Biden v Trump – final countdown to US election

Maga ugliness on show as Biden busload menaced … Johnny Depp libel case verdict due … the street eats fuelling Thailand’s protests

by  Warren Murray

Hello, I’m Warren Murray and it is Monday – the last day of this week that does not contain a US presidential election or its aftermath. Let’s orient ourselves in terms of UK timings: by lunchtime GMT on Tuesday polling booths will be opening in the mainland United States. Then on Wednesday morning we will be trying to work out what just happened.

The presidential election is on track to have the highest voter turnout in more than a century, reflecting the high stakes in the race between Donald Trump and Joe Biden. The US Elections Project says more than 93 million people had already voted as of Sunday. The project’s co-ordinator, Prof Michael McDonald from the University of Florida, predicts 150 million Americans may vote, out of 239 million eligible voters.

A wobble for the Democratic campaign after a poll in Iowa showed Trump ahead by seven points. He enjoyed the same lead there over Hillary Clinton before winning the state, and the election, in 2016. Biden is leading national polls but so did Clinton – here is how things are looking in crucial swing states. The mail-in votes that Trump has baselessly made an issue are expected to skew towards the Democrats.

Donald Trump has defended as “patriots” a mob of his supporters – some armed – who surrounded and menaced people on board a Joe Biden campaign bus in Texas. Trump has thrown the crowd some red meat at one of his campaign rallies by threatening to fire the hugely popular pandemic expert Anthony Fauci after the election – more on that at our live blog – while separately he foreshadowed “going in with our lawyers” straight after voting ends. But the president denied reports he is planning to declare victory as soon as it looks like he is ahead on the night – despite th the need to count postal ballots. Incredibly, police in North Carolina have responded to a get-out-the-vote rally by pepper-spraying participants because they temporarily blocked a road during a legally permitted, peaceful march. And not to sound overly dramatic but a group of scholars at universities in the US, Canada and Europe has warned that democracy “is either withering or in full-scale collapse globally … Whether Donald J Trump is a fascist, a post-fascist populist, an autocrat or just a bumbling opportunist, the danger to democracy did not arrive with his presidency and goes well beyond 3 November 2020.” They suggest citizens must be ready not only to defend democracy at the ballot box but “if necessary, also through non-violent protests in the streets”.

Coronavirus latest – Lockdowns like England’s, due to come into force from Thursday, are a price countries are having to pay for failing to ensure infected people and their contacts self-isolate, according to Dr Margaret Harris of the World Health Organization. The WHO has consistently urged quarantining and contact tracing but Harris said in European countries there had been poor management of isolation. “[People] don’t feel a strong social obligation or they do not necessarily have that reinforced … In a place like Hong Kong you would be called every day, or the police come to your house.” Taiwan “probably has the best management”, notwithstanding being a “highly liberal society”.

As if to illustrate the point, the WHO chief, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has put himself in strict quarantine after contact tracing revealed he’d been near an infected person. Meanwhile “rapid turnaround” coronavirus tests promised by Boris Johnson are not approved for the public to interpret without an expert’s help and so will not provide results in the claimed 15 minutes, the Guardian has learned. And reports have emerged that Prince William tested positive for coronavirus around the same time his father was diagnosed but it went unannounced as he “didn’t want to worry anyone”. Monitor further developments at our global coronavirus live blog.

Rambling rights at risk – More than 49,000 miles of public footpaths are missing from modern maps in England and Wales and risk being lost forever, according to a “citizen mapping” effort led by the Ramblers. Since February thousands of volunteers have used the charity’s online tool to search historical maps for footpaths missing from today’s official maps that are supposed to record legal rights of way. There are 9,000 miles missing in south-west England alone, while the West Midlands has the highest density of lost paths. The government has set a cutoff date of January 2026 after which it will no longer be possible to reclaim and safeguard lost rights of way. The Ramblers have launched a crowdfunder to support their campaign.

Depp libel verdict due – The high court in London is to hand down its ruling today in the libel case between Johnny Depp and the Sun newspaper, four months on from the courtroom battle between the actor and his ex-wife, Amber Heard. The Pirates of the Caribbean actor is suing News Group Newspapers (NGN) and the Sun’s executive editor, Dan Wootton, over a 2018 article that labelled him a “wife-beater”. Depp is also bringing a separate claim against Heard in the US, suing her for $50m (£38.7m) over a column she wrote.

Journalism mourns Robert Fisk – The veteran British foreign correspondent and author Robert Fisk has died at the age of 74. The Middle East correspondent for the Independent had reportedly been admitted to St Vincent’s hospital, Dublin, following a stroke. In a storied career Fisk won the Orwell prize for journalism and multiple British Press Awards. He began his career at the Sunday Express before moving to the Times and was that paper’s Belfast correspondent at the height of the Troubles in the 1970s. In 1976 he moved to Beirut, covering the Lebanese civil war, Iranian revolution, Iran-Iraq war and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The fluent Arabic speaker was among the few western journalists to interview Osama bin Laden and did so three times.

Donald Trump faces a major challenge to repeat the swing states victory he achieved in 2016. The Guardian’s Chris McGreal takes a US election road trip and meets voters who explain why they are standing by the White House incumbent.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/10/30-66712-20201102tiftrump.mp3 

In Thailand, wherever protests erupt, food is never far. Beyond the crowds of mostly young demonstrators rallying across the country calling for democratic reforms, food vendors line the streets, grilling rows of fish balls and pork balls, and frying chicken. Strings of sausages are draped over mobile carts ready for demonstrators who join rallies after school or work. Sellers are stocked with everything from crispy rolled pancakes to coconut ice-cream and bags of pickled mango.

Even when gatherings were banned last month, prompting a cat-and-mouse game between protesters and police, food vendors were first on the scene – stationed in prime positions before journalists, the authorities and even many demonstrators arrived. For these food sellers, the escalating protest movement – which has surprised many with calls to reform the monarchy – is a welcome business opportunity.

Lewis Hamilton is giving serious consideration to calling time on his long and glittering Formula One career at the end of the season, after the world champion won the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix at Imola. Ole Gunnar Solskjær has denied Manchester United’s terrible home form is due to a mental barrier after Arsenal’s 1-0 win at Old Trafford made it three defeats and one draw from their four Premier League games there this season. Gareth Bale rolled back the years as he scored within three minutes of coming off the bench to give Tottenham a 2-1 win over Brighton. Eddie Jones believes his revamped England team is destined for greatness, having clinched a third Six Nations title in five years, almost 12 months to the day since their “traumatic” World Cup final defeat. Owners with runners entered later this week should find out today whether they will be allowed into courses to watch their horses race.

Gareth Taylor paid tribute to the desire and patience of his Manchester City side as he celebrated his first trophy as a manager after a 3-1 extra-time win over Everton in the Women’s FA Cup final. Richard Carapaz regained the overall leader’s red jersey from Primoz Roglic in the Vuelta a España, opening up a 10-second advantage after Sunday’s stage 12 up the punishing Alto de l’Angliru. Sir Bobby Charlton, widely considered to be England’s greatest ever footballer, has been diagnosed with dementia. England claimed their second successive grand slam after thumping Italy 54-0 in their Women’s Six Nations finale. Rafael Nadal, rejuvenated after winning his 13th French Open at 34, has committed to finishing his disjointed season in London in a fortnight’s time, if he comes through the Paris Masters unscathed this week. And the government is considering a more flexible approach to outdoor sports banned as part of the new lockdown measures that will be introduced on Thursday.

Liz Truss, the trade secretary, is being urged by the Labour party to finalise deals with Kenya and Ghana to prevent them being subjected to high tariffs when the UK leaves the EU on 1 January. Shares in the Asia Pacific bounced back from last week’s losses after positive figures on Chinese industrial output but markets still face a very choppy week thanks to uncertainty about the outcome of the US election. The FTSE100 is set to fall 0.6% when it opens this morning. On the foreign exchange markets the pound has slipped to $1.292 and €1.11.

Our Guardian print edition leads with “PM faces Tory fury after hints of longer lockdown” – also on the front, “Middle class ‘new hungry’ turning to food banks” as the Feeding Britain network says members are providing support to a new influx of people who had good jobs and comfortable incomes before the pandemic.

The Express is at odds with everyone else, insisting “New lockdown WILL only last one month”. But the Mail sees portents of “A nightmare without end”, the Mirror voices “Lockdown Xmas fear” (similar to the Metro’s “Lock could go on until Xmas”) and the Telegraph has “PM raises prospect of lockdown extension”, while the Times front-page lead says it will potentially extend into “next year”. The i offers bland fare: “Extended lockdown warning”.

The FT naturally focuses on businesses, saying they want more support to “survive new lockdown body blow”. The Sun leads with “Wills Covid battle” and we didn’t look inside to find out whether it’s another reason Kate is better than Meghan.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.40 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

PM promised public could get results in ‘10 to 15 minutes’ but tests are designed for lab staff

The “rapid turnaround” coronavirus tests the prime minister announced on Saturday are not approved for the public to interpret themselves without an expert’s help and so will not provide results in the promised 15 minutes, the Guardian has learned.

Boris Johnson’s briefing about this week’s national lockdown in England included  the promise of a mass rollout of “tests that you can use yourself to tell whether or not you are infectious and get the result within 10 to 15 minutes”, which would be made available at universities and across whole cities.

He said the army would be deployed to roll out the “many millions of cheap, reliable and above all rapid turnaround tests” everywhere they were needed.

Three of these rapid antigen tests, called lateral flow tests, have passed an assessment by Porton Down with Oxford University. The government has bought one of them. The health secretary, Matt Hancock, announced the government had signed a deal for 20 million, from the company Innova Tried and Tested, on 19 October.

But the Innova tests are not for people without symptoms, such as university students or people wanting to get on a plane or go to the theatre. They are designed for people who already have Covid symptoms. And the devices, which look like a pregnancy test, are intended to be read by a healthcare professional.

The company is clear about their limitations on the instructions for use, which can be found on its website. The tests analyse throat and nose swabs “from individuals who are suspected of Covid-19 by their healthcare provider, within the first five days of the onset of symptoms”. The test is designed for use by trained lab and healthcare staff, it says.

Johnson hopes the tests will help show the way out of the pandemic. They will be deployed in a wide range of situations, he said, “from helping women to have their partners with them in labour wards when they’re giving birth, to testing whole towns and even whole cities.

“The army has been brought in to work on the logistics and the programme will begin in a matter of days, working with local communities, local government, public health directors and organisations of all kinds to help people discover whether or not they are infectious, and then immediately to get them to self-isolate and to stop the spread.”

Prof Jon Deeks from Birmingham University and a member of a working group of the Royal Statistical Society, which is looking at coronavirus tests, said they were not ready for this type of use.

“At the moment, if you were bought this test, you would not be using it for this purpose,” he told the Guardian.

Lateral flow tests are now being offered to students at two universities – Durham and De Montfort – in a pilot study. Deeks questioned whether those involved had the right information.

“There are real issues in what people are being told in these studies,” he said. There was no transparency around the assessment of the lateral flow tests, he said. The announcement that the three tests had passed did not explain how they were assessed or how well they performed.

While everyone agrees that lateral flow tests, which could use either swab samples from the nose and mouth or saliva, have huge promise, Deeks said the technology at the moment appeared to struggle to register low levels of virus. They may pick up people who are infected and have high virus levels and may have symptoms, but they tend to miss people who are asymptomatic, as many young and fit people are.

A second test approved by Porton Down, from the Korean company SD Biosensor, has been validated by the World Health Organization and a package of support has been agreed to supply low- and middle-income countries that do not have access to PCR lab testing. However, these tests are also to be read by a healthcare professional.

Mass testing was part of the government’s controversial Moonshot plans. Last week the Guardian revealed that local health leaders had been asked to sign up to testing 10% of their populations every week using lateral flow tests, following the announcement of the deal with Innova.

callout-coronavirus

In a leaked letter, Alex Cooper, the director of rapid testing at NHS test and trace, said the ambition was “to make this technology available for local areas to roll out at pace”, adding that the programme would go nationwide “as quickly as possible”.

Labour has called for frontline workers and vulnerable people living in coronavirus hotspots to be tested every week. NHS staff and those working in education, transport, retail and hospitality, as well as at-risk groups in areas with high infections, should be given access to rapid saliva tests, the party said.

It urged ministers to use the November lockdown to expand testing and fix contact tracing, saying that a plan to roll out strategic mass testing would provide a roadmap for containing the virus.





No.41 article:
Voting opens in New Zealand&#x27;s beloved Bird of the Year competition

What started 15 years ago as a modest promotion to draw attention to native birds, many of which are endangered, has become a phenomenon

Normally on a post test-match Monday in New Zealand, the talk is all about the national rugby team’s latest performance. But this week, while the All Blacks’ destruction of the Wallabies was on everyones’ lips, there was another topic of conversation: birds. 

Voting began on Monday in the hotly contested and brutal election of New Zealand’s Bird Of The Year. 

What started 15 years ago as a modest promotion to draw attention to New Zealand’s native birds, many of which are endangered, has become a phenomenon. Back then an entry page in the NZ Forest &amp; Bird magazine had to be ripped out, filled in and posted. Last year more than 40,000 votes were cast online.

As ever, heavyweight names are chiming in. Word is the Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, is backing the black petrel again this year. “She calls it the Bogan Bird because it dresses in black” says Laura Keown, spokesperson for Bird of the Year 2020.

“It’s a cool bird because it faces a lot of threats. Due to its feeding habits it gets caught as bycatch by commercial and recreational fishers.”

There’s been scandal and allegations of vote rigging. In 2008, the successful campaign to elect kakapo was accused by the takahe of accepting undeclared donations “from wealthy migratory birds living in Monaco.”

Even the odd non-Kiwi gets hooked. “I’m so glad I’ve followed enough New Zealanders to start seeing #BirdOfTheYear posts in my timeline,” Mark Bessey, a software writer residing in Santa Barbara wrote on Twitter. “They’re bringing some much needed joy (and very weird-looking birds) to my Twitter experience.”

Defending champ, the Hoiho, live and breed only in New Zealand. Their numbers have been heading downhill for 30 years and in 2019, only 165 nests were located.

In the Māori language, hoiho means ‘noisy’, also an apt description of the social media debate about which bird should triumph.

When Helen Clark, the country’s former prime minister, declared a few elections ago that she’d voted for the Hoiho, not everyone was thrilled.

“Helen, you wot mate? Not gannets?,” responded and incredulous Michelle Langstone, campaign manager for the gannet and inventor of the hashtag #dammitgannet. “Gannets are magnificent! This is very disappointing.”

Langstone, writer, actor, chip fanatic, 

won’t be driving the gannet campaign this time but Langstone is squarely in their corner. Put it down to the bruising nature of politics. “I am emotionally drained, and all elections give me hives,” she declared recently on Twitter.

Pressed further, Langstone elaborated to The Guardian, “And I’ve realised nobody will ever vote for gannets, so I just love them on my own.”

She is urging punters to cast all five of their votes for seabirds which she says are “largely overlooked in popularity contests, because they’re mostly offshore, and they smell, and they haven’t got fancy plumage, and many of them are not endangered. But they’re so heroic.”

Keown puts the competition’s popularity down to the Kiwi sense of humour. “They enjoy the frivolity, the fun.”

But there is a serious side to proceedings. About 75% of land birds and 90% of seabirds are judged to be threatened or at risk of extinction. Their habitats are being destroyed or degraded by introduced predators, pollution, human development, and climate change.

Recent Birds Of The Year include the plump wood pigeon, the Kererū, with its green, copper and white dreamcoat, that alpine thief, the Kea (it’ll steal your lunch and your bootlaces) and the Forrest Gump of the skies, the bar-tailed godwit which have just returned to New Zealand from Siberia, a non-stop flight of some 12,000 kilometres.

No past winner has won again. There’s no rule against it, says Keown. “I think it’s just the heart of New Zealanders that they want to share the love.”

Voting closes on 15 November.





No.42 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Dr Margaret Harris said ‘high price’ of lockdowns must buy time to improve test and trace

Lockdowns affecting entire populations is a price countries pay for failing to ensure people with coronavirus and their contacts self-isolate, according to an expert from the World Health Organization.

The WHO does not recommend that countries enter lockdowns. It has consistently said that the key to controlling epidemics, whether Covid-19, Sars or flu, is to test people, trace their contacts and ensure all those who are positive or who have been close to those infected are quarantined.

While countries like the UK have been massively increasing the numbers of tests carried out, contact tracing has fallen short, and studies have shown that as few as 20% of people in England fully comply with self-isolation.

“For me, the big missing link in what’s going on in many European countries is management of isolation,” said Dr Margaret Harris of the WHO. “That’s not just isolation of people who are sick – it’s isolation of people who have contacts and are first-degree contacts.

“They don’t think they have Covid, because they feel fine, and even if they are told they should stay home, they don’t feel a strong social obligation or they do not necessarily have that reinforced as happens in some countries.

“So for instance, in a place like Hong Kong, you would be called every day, or the police come to your house,” she said.

Across Asia, there is a mixture of economies that have managed the virus well – not just those that may be non-liberal, non-democratic command economies, she added. “Taiwan, for instance, probably has the best management. They are definitely a highly liberal society.”

A lockdown which effectively isolates everyone does work, Harris said, “but it also causes massive dislocation, massive disruption. And unless you’ve worked out how you can possibly put that pause button on and maintain your economic and social lives, the price you pay is very, very high.”

The WHO doesn’t say don’t do it, she said. “We just say, if you’re doing it, you’re paying a very high price, so therefore get some return for what you pay.”

That means getting test and trace to work efficiently “and you could think very hard about how to make self-isolation doable” she said.

“You’ve got to do it at grassroots level, because it’s very different, say, in London from somewhere rural, it’s different in housing estates, you may have people living on the streets, you may have people living in institutions. So, you have to really know your society, and know how you’re going to make it possible for them to self-isolate.

callout-coronavirus

“There will be people who cannot possibly self-isolate, because they live in crowded conditions or on the streets. You may have to think of offering them somewhere else to stay.

“It does require a lot of planning. It requires a lot of a great deal of partnership with community and with local authorities, and really listening to your mayors and your councils and all the people in your local groups or your NGOs who understand how communities really function and ensure that you’re reaching everyone.

“You might have communities who don’t have access to standard English-language channels and all the rest of it, and don’t really know what is being asked of them or whether it’s possible.”

Harris said that some places, such as Hong Kong, isolate those who have Covid-19 by putting them in hospital with even mild symptoms, which means it is far easier and quicker to spot those who deteriorate and treat them, saving lives. Early medical monitoring helped with getting people the right treatment, she added, and although it’s not yet clear, getting earlier care to people could also save some from the after-effects known as long Covid.





No.43 article:
&#x27;Bittersweet&#x27;: reopened Cyprus resort highlights deepening divides across eastern Mediterranean

Tourists can return to decaying town of Varosha – but Turkey’s involvement has caused anger

Pavlos Iakovou was 17 when he met his wife, Tuolla, at the Edelweiss cafe in Famagusta, the fashionable Cypriot holiday resort where his family owned a hotel. Last week, the couple returned to some of their old haunts in the abandoned quarter of Varosha, or Maraş in Turkish, for the first time in 46 years.

Sealed off as a militarised zone and untouched since 1974, when Turkey invaded following a Greek coup, the decaying slice of 1970s glamour is now open again to visitors – Greek Cypriots included.

People on both sides of the island have long wanted Varosha restored to its former glory. The circumstances under which the area has been reopened, however, point to a changing political climate on Cyprus, as well as the wider eastern Mediterranean, as Turkey plays its cards in the battle with Cyprus and Greece over oil and gas reserves.

“When we left in 1974 we thought we’d be gone for two or three days at the most,” Iakovou said. “This is a bittersweet experience. We always refused to sell the hotel and now I can visit it. But now I don’t think we are ever going to have a solution to reunite the island.”

On 29 October, a holiday to celebrate the founding of modern Turkey, tourists from the country thronged Varosha’s streets, taking pictures in front of hotels and restaurants once favoured by Elizabeth Taylor and Brigitte Bardot but now crumbling into the sparkling water.

A handful of Varosha’s main roads and 200 metres of beachfront were opened to the public in October in an election stunt that helped Ankara’s preferred candidate, the rightwinger Ersin Tatar, win the presidential election in Turkish-occupied northern Cyprus.

A runoff after poor voter turnout in the first round between 11 candidates resulted in the surprise pivot towards closer relations with Turkey and a two-state solution, rather than a future federal Cyprus favoured by most of the other parties.

Tatar’s victory was partly due to Turkish Cypriot frustration with the stagnating peace process and decades of international isolation, as well as the growing number of conservative-leaning settlers from the mainland.

But as Turkey’s belligerent and emboldened president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, ramps up efforts to adjust a regional status quo perceived in Turkey as historically unfair, the result of northern Cyprus’s presidential election – in which opposition parties say Ankara played a decisive hand – has taken on new international significance.

Cyprus, the confluence of the competing political and eastern Mediterranean oil and gas exploration claims between Athens, Nicosia and Turkey, is fast emerging as a focal point of a new and potentially dangerous reality.

“We had put forward careful plans to reopen Varosha in a way that is considerate of the needs of former inhabitants, in line with international law and keeps the international community informed of what’s going on, but the way this was done was terrible … for the sake of Mr Tatar’s election campaign,” said northern Cyprus’s foreign minister, Kudret Özersay, who also serves as leader of the People’s party, at his office in Nicosia.

His party, the junior member of the governing coalition, withdrew in protest at the move in the run-up to the election, bringing down the then prime minister Tatar’s cabinet – a development that could result in early parliamentary elections next year.

“This is a turning point for north Cyprus, especially if Turkish involvement compromises our democratic process like this again,” he added.

“I think this suggests that a large crisis, the fight for hydrocarbon reserves, is on its way. Which actors will be part of that process, and whether we will end up negotiating over it or fighting over it, is yet to be determined. But I fear a real crisis is coming if the involvement of the Turkish Cypriot authorities is excluded. It is for the benefit of all to respect the democratic will of the Turkish Cypriot people.”

Ankara is unlikely to be able to take advantage of oil and gas reserves found in what is considered internationally as Greek waters without triggering a response from Athens. The north Cyprus axis, however, which may not necessarily be militarily defended by Greece, may offer easier pickings.

The competition for hydrocarbon reserves has been building over the last decade. To this day Greece has not begun any official operations to explore natural resources in the Aegean, in the knowledge that to do so would lead to competing claims from Turkey. The republic of Cyprus, however, began offering plots for exploration to foreign companies in 2011.

Last year, northern Cyprus suggested that the Greek and Turkish administrations on the island should cooperate over oil drilling activities and share revenue. The Greek Cypriot government also rejected a proposal from Ankara for all sides to cease exploration until a peace settlement was reached, on the grounds it contravened international law.

Since then the relationships between Cyprus and Turkey, as well as Greece and Turkey, have deteriorated to the lowest ebb in decades, even leading observers to fear direct naval clashes between the two Nato allies.

The escalating tensions have drawn in several Mediterranean neighbours, as well as the United Arab Emirates and France.

At the end of last year Turkey signed a maritime boundary agreement with the UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) in Libya, which effectively ignored the existence of the Greek island of Crete, prompting Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, Italy, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority to form the rival EastMed Gas Forum.

Since the summer, the presence of the Turkish seismic research vessel Oruç Reis off the coasts of Cyprus and the Greek island of Kastellorizo accompanied by Turkish warships has put the Greek navy on alert. France – which opposes Turkey and the GNA in Libya – has also deployed two Rafale fighter jets and a naval frigate to the eastern Mediterranean in an attempt to deter Turkey.

The EU will next reconsider sanctions against Ankara over its hydrocarbon exploration efforts in December, but for now several plates are still spinning.

Tatar is due to meet with the Greek Cypriot leader, Nicos Anastasiades, for the first time in his new role on Monday, which should set the tone for relations between the two sides in the future.

Erdoğan himself is due to visit Nicosia and Varosha on 15 November, the anniversary of the declaration of the self-styled Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, in a message supposed to convey strength to both his domestic and international audiences.

Whether the abandoned city can truly rise from the ashes is not yet clear: the continued absence of a settlement and complex property rights and compensation logistics stand in the way.

Taking selfies in front of the trees and vines that have engulfed the King George hotel, Süleyman Ergen, who moved from Hatay to work as a delivery driver in Nicosia five years ago, was confident those obstacles could be overcome.

“This is Turkey’s destiny. This is where Turkey will have a new beginning,” he said.





No.44 article:
&#x27;An army marches on its stomach&#x27;: the food vendors sustaining Thai protesters

The escalating protest movement is a welcome business opportunity as tens of thousands gather in Bangkok

In Thailand, wherever protests erupt, food is never far. Beyond the crowds of mostly young demonstrators who rallied across the country in recent months to call for democratic reforms, food vendors can be seen lining the streets, grilling rows of fish balls, pork balls, and frying chicken. Strings of plump sausages are draped over mobile carts, ready for hungry demonstrators who join rallies after school or work. Sellers are stocked with everything from crispy rolled pancakes to coconut ice-cream and bags of pickled mango.

Even when gatherings were banned last month, prompting a cat-and-mouse game between protesters and the police, food vendors were first on the scene. Sellers were stationed in prime positions before journalists, the authorities and even many demonstrators arrived.

For food sellers, the escalating protest movement – which has surprised many with calls to reform the monarchy – is a welcome business opportunity. Demonstrations have taken place up and down the country, drawing crowds of tens of thousands in Bangkok.

Toey, 25, who preferred not to give her full name, was among those selling to crowds on Thursday evening in the capital, where thousands gathered for a protest targeting royal spending. Demonstrators held a mock fashion show parodying Princess Sirivannavari Nariratana, one of the king’s daughters, who has launched a new fashion collection.

At Toey’s stall, lines of soft, steamed buns oozed chocolate, bright strawberry filling and green pandan custard. During the coronavirus lockdown earlier in the year, she struggled to find customers, but the footfall at demonstrations has been a significant boost. “Usually I could earn 1,500 baht [£37.20] a day, but during the protest, I earned 4,000-5,000 baht a day. The protests actually help me a lot,” she says.

Wae, 46, who is selling grilled Isan sausage, studies the news and asks her daughter to check Facebook so that she can find the right spot to attract customers. Isan sausage, made from fermented pork and rice, is a bestseller, she says, because it’s easy to eat on the move. It is crunchy, with a sour taste, and can be served with chilli, raw cabbage or a slice of ginger. “Today I prepared a bit more, so hopefully I can sell it all,” she says. She plans to sell at counter-rallies held by royalists, as well, she says, but is not sure the business will be as good. Protesters there are mostly older people, and fewer in number.

Wae agrees with some of the protesters’ demands, but not calls for reform of the monarchy – which is protected by strict laws and, according to the constitution, is “enthroned in a position of revered worship”.

Other vendors are more supportive. Kaesinee Chanthanontri, 32, says she backs all calls made by the protesters – including for prime minister Prayuth Chan-ocha to stand down, for a new constitution and for an accountable royal family. “I think to reform something, it will make that thing better. We are all under constitution so if we reform it, it will make our lives better,” she says.

“I think Thai people should have freedom of speech,” agrees Toey.

Pin, 23, a graphic designer who arrived at the protest after work, says most sellers support the demonstrators, and are generous with portions. “When I buy something from the vendor, they always give us a little more,” she says, while motorbike taxis have offered free rides for short distances. Drivers have also acted as lookouts, giving early warning signs when riot police approached to break up a previous demonstration that was held in defiance of a ban on gatherings.

Prayuth, a former army general who first came to power in the 2014 coup, has since dropped the measures banning protests, but he has rejected protesters’ demands that he stand down, and has told them not to discuss the monarchy. On Sunday King Maha Vajiralongkorn was stopped by Channel 4 news and CNN while walking among royalists. “We love them all the same,” he said of the demonstrators, in the rare interview. Asked if there was room to compromise with protesters, the king replied, “Thailand is the land of compromise,” and quickly turned to walk away.

Activists are unconvinced. They point out that dozens of people have been arrested for taking part in recent protests – including on charges such as sedition and under a rarely used law that covers violence against the queen. The latter, used after the queen’s motorcade was heckled, carries a possible death sentence. Water cannon was also recently used on a crowd of demonstrators that included school students.

Even protesters who believe reform is possible say it will be a long journey. Aek, 43, who came straight from work, is demonstrating because he wants Prayuth out. “An army marches on its stomach,” he says, pausing to buy bread with strawberry filling.





No.45 article:
Jacinda Ardern unveils diverse new cabinet to focus on Covid-19 recovery

Of the 20-strong cabinet, eight are women, five are Māori, three are Pasifika and three are LGBT

New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has brought in her right-hand man, Grant Robertson, as deputy leader as she unveiled a diverse new cabinet lineup to focus on Covid-19 containment and economic recovery.Robertson, one of Ardern’s most capable ministers and a close ally, handled the government’s spending in response to Covid-19. 

The government created a NZ$50bn Covid response and recovery fund targeted at new initiatives meant to address both the immediate response to the pandemic and the longer term economic damage left in its wake.

Robertson is the first gay man to hold the role of deputy prime minister.

“I still get a lot of emails and messages from young gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people who look towards us to provide that kind of role-modelling,” he said. “So, I’ll keep doing my job the way that I’ve been doing it, but I’m very proud to have the role.”

Of the 20-strong cabinet, eight are women, five are Māori, three are Pasifika and three are LGBT.

In an unexpected move, Nanaia Mahuta, an MP since 1996, was appointed foreign minister, replacing New Zealand First leader Winston Peters, a populist maverick whose party was not returned to parliament at the election on 17 October. The trailblazing Māori MP will become the first female foreign minister in New Zealand’s history.

Ardern said Mahuta showed “diplomacy skills that we need to represent New Zealand on the world stage” during her last three years as local government minister.

“She is someone who builds fantastic relationships very, very quickly and that is one of the key jobs in a foreign affairs role,” Ardern said. Mahuta said she was “absolutely privileged” to take on the job.

Mahuta was the first woman to wear a “moko”, into New Zealand’s parliament after getting the traditional Māori facial tattoo in 2016, two decades after she was first elected.

She has previously held the customs and Māori development portfolios and will hold on to the local government ministry alongside her foreign responsibilities.

Ardern also announced a new ministerial post for Covid-19 response, with Chris Hipkins taking the role. Hipkins took over as health minister in July when David Clark resigned following gaffes including going mountain biking during lockdown.

Hipkins responsibilities will include overseeing Covid-19 testing, managed isolation and border controls. He retains the education portfolio.

Andrew Little, one of Labour’s most effective ministers, and the politician who begged Ardern to take his place as party leader before coming to power at the 2017 election, takes up the health portfolio.

A new MP, Ayesha Verrall, an infectious disease doctor, has been brought straight into cabinet. Verrall was one of the Ardern government’s key scientific advisers during the Covid-19 pandemic.

Ardern said it would be foolish at this time not to use Verrall’s experience and said she wanted her voice in cabinet rather than in a consultation role.

New Zealand’s response – to go hard and early on lockdowns – has been generally praised around the world, moreso as new lockdowns are being announced in Britain and Europe.

Four new Covid-19 cases – all in managed isolation – were announced today. The last case in the community was 10 days ago, on 23 October.

New Zealand has 77 active cases. Its total number of cases is 1603 including 25 deaths.

A former prominent cabinet minister, Phil Twyford, paid the price for under-delivery of Kiwibuild – the programme aimed at addressing homelessness and housing affordability – and transport projects. He has been given minor portfolios outside cabinet.

Green Party leaders James Shaw and Marama Davidson are also ministers outside cabinet – climate change and family violence portfolios respectively – having reached a “cooperation” agreement with the government.

Under New Zealand’s MMP system, agreements between parties are common, particularly when no one party can form a government alone. In this case the agreement with the Greens was reached even though Labour did not need them to govern.

Ardern said all the positions were assigned on merit. “I think one of the amazing things about New Zealand is that we are often in a space now where all of these questions (about diversity) often become secondary,” she said. “The representation is there. And that is not the first consideration.”





No.46 article:
Quebec City stabbing: man charged with two murders after Halloween sword attack

Suspect was dressed in medieval clothing and wielded a Japanese sword, police said, in attack that killed two and wounded five

A 24-year-old man has appeared in court via video link charged with murdering two people with a sword in Quebec City, Canada on Halloween night.

Two people were killed and five wounded after being stabbed by a man dressed in medieval clothes and wielding a sword, Quebec police said on Sunday, noting the attack appeared to be driven by personal motives and not linked to any terror group.

Police arrested a 24-year-old man from Montreal early on Sunday morning, Quebec police chief Robert Pigeon said at a news conference.

Carl Girouard appeared in a Quebec court via video and was charged with two counts of first degree murder and five counts of attempted murder, according to broadcaster Radio-Canada.

“Dressed in medieval costume and armed with a Japanese sword, everything leads us to believe he chose his victims at random,” Pigeon said, adding that preliminary information indicated the man was not affiliated with any terror group.

Pigeon said the suspect had come prepared to inflict as much damage as possible but did not elaborate. Quebec newspaper Le Soleil said the suspect had gasoline containers in his car. Pigeon declined to comment on the report.

The incident began late Saturday night, on Halloween, inside the city’s historic walled centre. Police told nearby residents to stay indoors and made an arrest after a near three-hour manhunt when port security found the suspect, lying barefoot on the ground.

With the city under partial lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there were few people on the streets, limiting the potential damage, police said.

“It is once again, and we believe, an isolated act,” Quebec City mayor Regis Labeaume told reporters. “We need to have a societal debate on the subject [of mental health] because it is becoming more and more difficult to manage.”

In 2017, a Canadian man gunned down six members of a Quebec City mosque and was later sentenced to life in prison.

Quebec’s police chief said on Sunday that the suspect had spoken of conducting an attack during a medical examination five years ago but was not known to police and did not have a criminal record.

The victims were identified as hairdresser Suzanne Clermont, 61, and François Duchesne, 56, a museum communications director.

• This article was amended on 1 November 2020 to replace the main photo. An earlier photo which was captioned as being of Quebec City was actually of Ottawa.







