No.1 article:
Trump Stress-Tested the Election System, and the Cracks Showed

Even in the absence of a questionable outcome or any evidence of fraud, President Trump managed to freeze the passage of power for most of a month.

As President Trump’s efforts to overturn the 2020 election have steadily disintegrated, the country appears to have escaped a doomsday scenario in the campaign’s epilogue: Since Nov. 3, there have been no tanks in the streets or widespread civil unrest, no brazen intervention by the judiciary or a partisan state legislature. Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s obvious victory has withstood Mr. Trump’s peddling of conspiracy theories and his campaign of groundless lawsuits.

In the end — and the postelection standoff instigated by Mr. Trump and his party is truly nearing its end — the president’s attack on the election wheezed to an anticlimax. It was marked not by dangerous new political convulsions but by a letter from an obscure Trump-appointed bureaucrat, Emily W. Murphy of the General Services Administration, authorizing the process of formally handing over the government to Mr. Biden.

For now, the country appears to have avoided a ruinous breakdown of its electoral system.

Next time, Americans might not be so lucky.

While Mr. Trump’s mission to subvert the election has so far failed at every turn, it has nevertheless exposed deep cracks in the edifice of American democracy and opened the way for future disruption and perhaps disaster. With the most amateurish of efforts, Mr. Trump managed to freeze the passage of power for most of a month, commanding submissive indulgence from Republicans and stirring fear and frustration among Democrats as he explored a range of wild options for thwarting Mr. Biden.

He never came close to achieving his goal: Key state officials resisted his entreaties to disenfranchise huge numbers of voters, and judges all but laughed his legal team out of court.

Ben Ginsberg, the most prominent Republican election lawyer of his generation, said he doubted any future candidates would attempt to replicate Mr. Trump’s precise approach, because it has been so unsuccessful. Few candidates and election lawyers, Mr. Ginsberg suggested, would regard Rudolph W. Giuliani and Sidney Powell — the public faces of Mr. Trump’s litigation — as the authors of an ingenious new playbook.

“If in a few months, we look back and see that this Trump strategy was just an utter failure, then it’s not likely to be copied,” said Mr. Ginsberg, who represented former President George W. Bush in the 2000 election standoff. “But the system was stress-tested as never before.”

That test, he said, revealed enough vague provisions and holes in American election law to make a crisis all too plausible. He pointed in particular to the lack of uniform standards for the timely certification of elections by state authorities, and the uncertainty about whether state legislatures had the power to appoint their own electors in defiance of the popular vote. The 2020 election, he said, “should be a call for some consideration of those issues.”

Yet even without precipitating a full-blown constitutional crisis, Mr. Trump has already shattered the longstanding norm that a defeated candidate should concede quickly and gracefully and avoid contesting the results for no good reason. He and his allies also rejected the longstanding convention that the news media should declare a winner, and instead exploited the fragmentation of the media and the rise of platforms like Twitter and Facebook to encourage an alternative-reality experience for his supporters.

The next Republican candidate to lose a close election may find some voters expecting him or her to mimic Mr. Trump’s conduct, and if a Democrat were to adopt the same tactics, the G.O.P. would have no standing to complain.

Still more important, legal and political experts said, is the way Mr. Trump identified perilous pressure points within the system. Those vulnerabilities, they said, could be manipulated to destabilizing effect by someone else, in a closer election — perhaps one that featured real evidence of tampering, or foreign interference, or an outcome that delivers a winner who was beaten handily in the popular vote but scored a razor-thin win in the Electoral College.

In those scenarios, it might not be such a long-shot gambit for a losing candidate to attempt to halt certification of results through low-profile state and county boards, or to bestir state legislators to appoint a slate of electors or to pressure political appointees in the federal government to block a presidential transition.

Indeed, Mr. Trump managed to intrude on normal election procedures in several states. He summoned Michigan Republican leaders to the Oval Office as his allies floated the idea of appointing pro-Trump electors from the state, which Mr. Biden carried by more than 150,000 votes. And he inspired an onslaught from the right against Georgia’s Republican secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, who declined to affirm Mr. Trump’s false claims of ballot tampering. Though Mr. Raffensperger oversaw a fair election, both of Georgia’s Republican senators, channeling the president, called for his resignation.

Michael Li, senior counsel at the Brennan Center for Justice, said the country had experienced a “‘Lord of the Flies’ moment” that revealed just how willing some powerful actors were to enable an undisguised effort to sabotage a free and fair election.

“It’s easy to laugh at the Trump challenges, just because they’ve been so out there,” Mr. Li said. “But what’s scary is, you step back from that a bit and see how many people were willing to go along with it until fairly deep in the process.”

“There will be closer elections, ultimately,” he added. “This one wasn’t very close. The fact that people are willing to go down dangerous paths should give us all pause.”

It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump will wind up as a singularly sore loser or as the herald of a new Wild West era in American electioneering. There have been far closer elections this century — including the 2000 vote that plunged the country into a weekslong review of Florida’s rickety vote-counting procedures, and the 2016 election that made Mr. Trump president through a historically wide split between the popular vote and the Electoral College. But no one else has entertained the corrosive tactics Mr. Trump has sought to employ.

Like numerous other presidential schemes over the last four years, Mr. Trump’s plot against the election unraveled in part because of external circumstances — the large number of swing states Mr. Biden carried, for instance — and in part because of his own clumsiness. His lawyers and political advisers never devised an actual strategy for reversing the popular vote in multiple big states, relying on a combination of televised chest-thumping and wild claims of big-city election fraud for which there was no evidence.

Barbara J. Pariente, the former chief justice of the Florida Supreme Court who was among the jurists overseeing the state-level battle over the 2000 vote, said it was essential for Congress to clarify the process by which elections are conducted and resolved or risk greater calamity in the coming years. Mr. Trump’s team, she said, had already breached fundamental standards of legal conduct by filing cases seeking to throw out huge numbers of votes “without any evidence of impropriety, and then asking a court to look further into it.” 

“As I look at what is happening now, I think it’s a real attack on our American system of democracy, and it is causing tens of millions of Americans to doubt the outcome,” Ms. Pariente said. “It has grave implications, in my view, for the future of this country.”

Even if Congress were to impose a clearer set of election procedures, however, there is reason to doubt whether the rules could reverse the total-war mind-set Mr. Trump has modeled. In failure, he has created a road map for his own party — or even, under certain circumstances, for a grievance-laden Democrat — to wage a bitter-end fight against an unfavorable election result, with the support of loud voices in the right-wing media and much of his party’s conservative base.

And it is that last cohort, the millions of voters who remain loyal to Mr. Trump and who appear largely indifferent to the facts of the vote tally and the niceties of legal procedure, that represents the most potent kind of weapon for this defeated president, or another executive who might follow his example.

Shawn Rosenberg, a professor of political and psychological science at the University of California, Irvine, who has written pessimistically about the trajectory of American democracy, said Mr. Trump has been highly effective at exploiting the gap between the complexity of the country’s political system and the more rudimentary grasp most voters have of their government. For the average partisan, he said, issues of political norms and procedures were “very abstract” and far less important than simply winning — an impulse Mr. Trump stoked to the detriment of democratic institutions.

Mr. Rosenberg warned that while Mr. Trump’s political opposition had managed to unseat an incumbent — a rare feat in the nation’s presidential system — the election was not the kind of overwhelming rout that might have proven American democracy “invulnerable” to the kind of erosion on display in newer democracies like Poland and India. That was something of a disappointment to Mr. Trump’s critics on both the left and right, he said.

“Their hope was that he had gone so far that he would awaken this awareness and resolve in the American people,” Mr. Rosenberg said. “And clearly that was not the case for roughly 74 million of them.”





No.2 article:
Biden’s National Security Team Offers a Sharp Turn. But in Which Direction?

The picks are a repudiation of President Trump’s isolationism, but they will have to resolve tensions between an Obama-era approach and the “fresh thinking” the president-elect says he wants.

WILMINGTON, Del. — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. formally introduced a national security team on Tuesday custom designed to repudiate President Trump’s nationalistic isolationism.

His nominee for secretary of state said in his remarks that Americans needed the “humility and confidence” to depend on allies. His choice to execute the nation’s immigration policy is a Cuban-American whose parents were refugees from Fidel Castro. And his new intelligence chief warned Mr. Biden when she spoke that she would bring him news that would be politically “inconvenient or difficult.”

They were joined by a career Foreign Service officer who will serve as ambassador to the United Nations and John Kerry, who ran for president unsuccessfully 16 years ago and then became President Barack Obama’s secretary of state. Mr. Biden appointed him to a new role inside the National Security Council to put “climate change on the agenda in the Situation Room,” after four years in which the Trump administration tried to have the words struck from summit communiqués and international agreements.

But it was in Avril Haines’s paean to the intelligence community — which Mr. Trump often regarded as a group of “deep state” renegades who wrongly tied him to Russia — that the contrast with the outgoing administration became clear. “To our intelligence professionals, the work you do — oftentimes under the most austere conditions imaginable — is just indispensable,” said Ms. Haines, who would be the first woman to serve as director of national intelligence, overseeing 16 separate agencies.

Mr. Biden has hardly created a team of rivals. Many of his nominees have worked together for years and as the “deputies” in the Obama administration who ran the gears of government at the White House, the State Department and the C.I.A. That also includes the Department of Homeland Security, where Alejandro N. Mayorkas, who will oversee immigration policy, had served as deputy secretary before Mr. Biden named him to lead the department.

Several are close friends. And most would be considered “liberal interventionists” who led the charge against Mr. Trump’s dismissal of America’s traditional role as the keystone in both Atlantic and Pacific alliances.

It all gave the Tuesday announcement at Mr. Biden’s headquarters in Wilmington the air of a restoration, or at least a class reunion. 

Yet in his comments, Mr. Biden also seemed to acknowledge that the dangers his team would confront were starkly different from the ones they dealt with during the Obama presidency. “While this team has unmatched experience and accomplishments, they also reflect the idea that we cannot meet these challenges with old thinking and unchanged habits,” he said.

Mr. Biden talked about the need for “fresh thinking.” But achieving that balance will be his biggest challenge, both his own aides and outside experts have noted.

“His presidency may be the establishment’s last, best chance to demonstrate that liberal internationalism is a superior strategy to populist nationalism,” Thomas Wright, the Brookings Institution foreign policy scholar, wrote in The Atlantic recently.

That means resolving a subtle but clear debate within the Democratic establishment, one on which Mr. Biden has not yet chosen sides. It boils down to whether Mr. Biden should pursue the kind of foreign policy one might have expected in an Obama “third term” — one marked by caution, repairing alliances and an avoidance of talk of new Cold Wars — or one that pursues new, more confrontational paths in recognition of how much global competition has changed over the past four years, starting with China.

Mr. Biden tried to dispel the idea that he was restoring Mr. Obama’s policies in an interview with Lester Holt of NBC News on Tuesday. “This is not a third Obama term,” he said, because “we face a totally different world than we faced in the Obama-Biden administration.” He added: “President Trump has changed the landscape. It’s become America first, it’s been America alone.”

Jake Sullivan, Mr. Biden’s 43-year-old choice for national security adviser, whom Mr. Biden also introduced, has come to embody the new thinking the president-elect referred to. “He is a once-in-a-generation intellect with the experience and temperament for one of the toughest jobs in the world,” he said, noting that when he was in his 30s Mr. Sullivan conducted the talks that led to a cease-fire in Gaza in 2012 and the secret opening of negotiations with Iran that led to the 2015 nuclear deal.

It is Mr. Sullivan who has argued most vociferously for new approaches to China that recognize the changed nature of the challenge. And some of the appointees who shared the stage in Delaware with Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris have made clear in recent times that they have regrets from the Obama years.

Those regrets include underreacting to the plight of Syrians being attacked by their own government, not recognizing the scope of Russia’s interference in the 2016 election until it was too late and moving too slowly in responding to the China challenge.

“Any of us, and I start with myself, who had any responsibility for our Syria policy in the last administration has to acknowledge that we failed,” Antony J. Blinken, the nominee for secretary of state, said in May, in one of the starkest of those admissions. “We failed to prevent a horrific loss of life,” he said. “It is something I will take with me for the rest of my days.” He went on to criticize Mr. Trump for pulling American troops out of Syria, and making the problem “arguably even worse.”

Conspicuously missing from the stage in Wilmington was one major player who is likely to have the biggest voice in the next Syria debate: Mr. Biden’s choice for defense secretary. He has not named one yet, though the leading candidate is believed to be Michèle A. Flournoy, who served as the under secretary of defense for policy under Mr. Obama and, in the Trump years, created a foreign policy advisory firm with Mr. Blinken, WestExec Advisors.

Ms. Flournoy, who has served in many senior roles in the Pentagon and was a co-founder of the Center for a New American Security, could be named next week, alongside Janet L. Yellen, the former chair of the Federal Reserve, who is widely reported to be Mr. Biden’s choice for Treasury secretary. If selected and confirmed, Ms. Flournoy and Ms. Yellen would be the first woman in either role.

Like Mr. Blinken, Ms. Flournoy has tended toward a more interventionist approach to the use of American power — and sometimes found herself on the other side of issues from Mr. Biden, which in the end could preclude her selection. That included the debate over when the United States should “surge” troops in Afghanistan, where Mr. Biden, then and now, has argued for only a small counterterrorism force.

Mr. Blinken argued for robust NATO military action in Libya when Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was being driven from power in 2011; Mr. Biden was skeptical. (Colonel Qaddafi was overthrown and ultimately killed by rebels, but the ensuing chaos reinforced Mr. Biden’s instinct for caution.)

Preparing for what may be some brutal confirmation fights in two months, Mr. Biden’s nominees avoided any discussion of policy on Tuesday and focused on their personal stories.

Mr. Blinken said his grandfather “fled pogroms in Russia,” and he repeated the chilling story of his stepfather, Samuel Pisar, who was the only one of 900 schoolchildren in a town in Poland to survive the Holocaust, fleeing a death march in Bavaria. He was rescued by an American soldier who opened the hatch of his tank. Mr. Pisar, Mr. Blinken said, uttered the only three words he knew in English: “God bless America.”

Mr. Mayorkas talked about his parents, Jewish émigrés who escaped Castro’s Cuba in 1960 and brought him to the United States as a baby. He described the Department of Homeland Security’s mission in terms meant to declare that Mr. Trump’s era of wall-building and immigration bans was over: The department is meant to “keep us safe and to advance our proud history as a country of welcome,” he said.

And perhaps the most powerful story came from Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the Black woman who is Mr. Biden’s choice for U.N. ambassador. She was one of the senior diplomats who left the State Department in the era of Rex W. Tillerson and Mike Pompeo, two secretaries of state who incited near rebellion among the diplomatic corps.

“Her dad couldn’t read or write, but she says he was the smartest person she knew,” Mr. Biden said, describing how Ms. Thomas-Greenfield, who served across Africa and in Pakistan, Switzerland and Jamaica, was the first in her family to go to high school or college.

It is the kind of story Mr. Biden likes to tell, and to compare to his own working-class roots. Ms. Thomas-Greenfield ended the tale with a description of how Southern cooking is a source of American soft power: At her diplomatic posts, she said, “I would invite people of different backgrounds and beliefs” to her kitchen to make the signature dish of her native Louisiana. “I called it gumbo diplomacy.”





No.3 article:
How de Blasio Backed Himself Into a Corner on Closing Schools

He says that he has celebrated educators more than any mayor in the last 20 years, but Bill de Blasio has taken heat from all sides about school policy during the pandemic.

It was just hours before Mayor Bill de Blasio would reveal that New York City had reached a test positivity rate that would trigger the shutdown of the entire public school system, and he was coming under intense pressure to find a way to keep schools open.

A group of parents was furiously circulating a petition calling on the mayor to relent and promoted it with the hashtag #KeepNYCSchoolsOpen. Leading public health experts had loudly registered their skepticism of the city’s plan to close schools before indoor dining. Local lawmakers joined in, demanding that Mr. de Blasio reverse course.

But even as he put off announcing his decision for hours, Mr. de Blasio and his team were reaching out to union leaders and principals to let them know he would stand by his pledge to them to close schools when the city hit a 3 percent positivity rate. When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo called to offer a strategy to keep the schools open at least for a few more days, the mayor rebuffed him.

By 3 p.m., Mr. de Blasio went before the cameras and made the decision official: Barely eight weeks after the system opened in an ambitious attempt to help the city rebound from the devastating impact of the pandemic, classrooms would once again be emptied.

An examination of Mr. de Blasio’s decision shows that, for all the apparent last-minute suspense, it actually was all but preordained. A mayor who had long fashioned himself a champion of the city’s educators — but who had lost the confidence of many teachers and principals over his halting effort to reopen the schools for the fall — felt he had no choice but to stand by a policy for closing schools that was among the strictest in the country.

The mayor had already pushed teachers by making New York the first big American city to reopen schools. So the mayor’s team worried that reversing course would risk a revolt from city educators that might have doomed the prospect of any in-person learning for the rest of the school year. And Mr. de Blasio hoped that sticking with the 3 percent rule would prove to educators, and to the city’s powerful teachers’ union, that he was still in their corner.

It didn’t work out that way.

“I think there is a real sense among educators that this administration is not able to meet this moment,” said Paula White, the executive director of Educators For Excellence-New York, which represents thousands of city teachers. “What we are hearing consistently is just a complete lack of trust.”

The entire reopening process, from the summer until now, has so damaged the city’s links to educators that the president of the United Federation of Teachers recently told The New York Times he would work to alter the current system of mayoral control over city schools. And even the shutdown decision did not do much to restore the trust of many rank-and-file educators.

“I would not have been surprised if he had broken this promise, because I feel like most of the other ones were broken,” said Rebecca Overbagh, an elementary schoolteacher in Manhattan.

Adding to the mayor’s isolation is the fact that the school closures have also infuriated many parents whose children had returned to classrooms this fall and have been criticized by public health officials who said the decision was not sufficiently based in science.

In a news conference last week, the mayor acknowledged frustration from all corners of the city — including from educators.

“What we saw after September was a work force that wanted to be in the schools,” he said. “One of the interesting things I think has not been represented sufficiently in the public discourse is how intensely teachers felt the impact of being around kids again.”

“They felt,” he added, “it was their mission.” Indeed, some teachers and principals have lamented that schools are closing so soon after they reopened.

Mr. de Blasio’s decision to shut the schools dates back to July, when he was embroiled in a last-ditch attempt to gain political support from educators to reopen the schools. At the time, he proposed the 3 percent threshold to demonstrate his seriousness about keeping schools safe for teachers and students.

But teachers’ and principals’ exasperation with him had begun rising much earlier. In March, they questioned him when he hesitated to close schools even as the virus was spreading rapidly throughout the city.

Annie Tan, a special-education teacher in Brooklyn, said she won’t soon forget being asked in early March to make sure her fifth grade students washed their hands frequently throughout the day — only to find that her school’s bathrooms lacked soap. Ms. Tan said that was the first of many signs that teachers’ concerns were not being adequately addressed.

The mayor “has been completely disrespectful of all parties,” she said. “It would have gone a long way for him and the chancellor to apologize for what happened in March and take steps to restore things.”

By the summer, teachers carrying handmade coffins were holding rallies to protest what many said was the mayor’s playing down of their fears about safety in classrooms. Some teachers changed their Twitter handles to include the phrase “won’t die for D.O.E.,” a reference to the Department of Education.

Hundreds of principals who rarely wade into politics organized letter-writing campaigns to draw attention to what they said were enormous flaws in the city’s plans for part-time learning. They lamented that the city never adequately planned how students would actually learn remotely and in person, asserting that principals had to rearrange school schedules every few weeks.

Even when schools were open this fall, many of those issues were not entirely resolved.

Communication was also a major point of friction. Educators said they were often not consulted about key aspects of the reopening plan and found out about crucial changes from the media, rather than from the city. The union representing the city’s principals, which typically avoids controversy, held a unanimous vote of no confidence in Mr. de Blasio in September and called on the state to take over the reopening effort from the mayor altogether.

It was an astonishing turn of events for a mayor who has long said that education is his top priority, and who speaks frequently about what he considers his deep connection to the public school system, through his experience as a former city public school parent and local school board member.

In an August interview, the mayor said he felt “solidarity with educators” and compared his track record on education to that of his predecessors, former mayors Rudolph W. Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg.

“I celebrate our educators all the time, that was not true for almost 20 years in this city,” the mayor said. “I don’t think the foundational mutual respect and understanding has been lost, because it has been built over such a long amount of time,” he added.

Though Mr. de Blasio’s effort to reopen schools has at times faltered, the push set him apart from big-city mayors who have continued to delay reopening as opposition has mounted in their own communities. The mayor has described reopening schools for the city’s mostly low-income students and their parents as a moral imperative.

The fallout of the mayor’s decision last week is not limited to City Hall. Parents spent days pleading with Mr. Cuomo to overrule the mayor and keep the schools open, and The Wall Street Journal reported that Mr. Cuomo spent last Wednesday looking for ways to allow the city to use different metrics to continue in-person instruction.

And the U.F.T., which supported the 3 percent number and encouraged the mayor to stick with it — despite a consensus view that the schools were operating relatively safely — is now facing fresh scrutiny from parents.

Sensing the blowback, Michael Mulgrew, the union’s president, has in recent days begun to say that he does not support citywide school shutdowns and would prefer a geographic approach.

But since that position was made public starting only the morning after Mr. de Blasio closed schools, the message appears to be a way for the union to negotiate in public about the next round of rules over school reopening, and perhaps to shield itself from further criticism.

Mr. Mulgrew has also sought to redirect anger about the messiness of the reopening effort from the union back to the mayor.

Now, the union leader, long skeptical of mayoral control, will fight to change that governance system in 2022, when its current extension expires in the State Legislature. Mr. de Blasio, who is term-limited, will leave office at the end of 2021. Mr. Mulgrew does not want to return to a school board, but will push for a version of mayoral control that gives educators more power.

Mr. Mulgrew’s position, which has not been previously reported, illustrates how frustration with Mr. de Blasio among teachers and principals has grown so intense that it could have major implications for the rest of this turbulent school year, for the mayor’s ability to implement education policy during his final year in office — and even for how the city’s next mayor might govern.

Under mayoral control, the mayor and schools chancellor, not an elected or appointed school board, run the city’s 1,800 schools. The union had considerable influence over the Board of Education, which ran schools before mayoral control began in 2002, and lost some of its power under the new system.

Mr. Bloomberg won mayoral control of city schools after a campaign focused on the school board’s ineffectiveness and occasional corruption scandals. But now, Mr. Mulgrew said, the union will no longer sit out the fight over whether mayoral control should be renewed by the Legislature, where the U.F.T. enjoys enormous sway, particularly in the Assembly.

“No single person should ever be in charge of our school system again,” Mr. Mulgrew said.

Mr. Mulgrew’s position shows how dire relations between City Hall and the U.F.T. have become over the last few months, even as the union continues to be involved in major education decisions, as it has been since 2014.

Indeed, early in his tenure, Mr. de Blasio showed his allegiance to teachers by signing a contract that has given them more benefits and pay — including a scheduled pay increase during the pandemic. Before that, teachers had worked for several years with no contract after talks between Mr. Bloomberg’s administration and the union fell apart.

Conflict between the city and labor unions is hardly new. But the fight over how to reopen schools has been driven to an unusual degree by the city’s rank-and-file educators, rather than just their union leaders.

In interviews, some teachers who said they once welcomed Mr. de Blasio’s approach to education expressed disappointment with his management of reopening.

“I was excited about him and I voted for him,” said Alexis Neider, who teaches at the Neighborhood School, a public elementary school in the East Village. “Definitely, my views have changed. It’s just failure after failure. The mismanagement of the schools in New York City during this pandemic, I don’t even think I have a word for it, it’s so grand, it’s so epic.”





No.4 article:
David N. Dinkins, New York’s First Black Mayor, Dies at 93

Mr. Dinkins, who served in the early 1990s, was seen as a compromise selection for voters weary of racial unrest, crime and fiscal turmoil. The racial harmony he sought remained elusive during his years in office.

 

David N. Dinkins, a barber’s son who became New York City’s first Black mayor on the wings of racial harmony but who was turned out by voters after one term over his handling of racial violence in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, died on Monday night at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 93. 

His death was confirmed by Mayor Bill de Blasio. It came less than two months after Mr. Dinkins’s wife, Joyce Dinkins, died at 89.

Cautious, deliberate, a Harlem Democrat who climbed to City Hall through relatively minor elective and appointive offices, Mr. Dinkins had none of the flamboyance of Edward I. Koch, who preceded him, or Rudolph W. Giuliani, who succeeded him — and who, along with Fiorello H. La Guardia in the 1930s and ’40s, were arguably the city’s most dominant mayors of the 20th century. Indeed, many historians and political experts say that as the 106th mayor of New York, from 1990 through 1993, Mr. Dinkins suffered by comparison with the Gullivers bestriding him.

Mr. Dinkins was a compromise selection for voters exhausted by racial strife, corruption, crime and fiscal turmoil, and he proved to be an able caretaker, historians say, rather than an innovator of grand achievements.

He inherited huge budget deficits that grew larger. He faced some of the worst crime problems in the city’s history and dealt with them by expanding the police to record levels. He kept city libraries open, revitalized Times Square and rehabilitated housing in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Harlem. But the racial amity that was his fondest hope remained a distant dream, and his lapses in responding to the Crown Heights crisis became an insurmountable legacy.

Secure in history as the city’s first (and so far only) Black mayor, Mr. Dinkins became a quiet elder statesman in later years, teaching at Columbia University, hosting a radio talk show on WLIB, attending receptions, dinners and ceremonies, and occasionally being consulted by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and others occupying or seeking office.

In a 2013 memoir, Mr. Dinkins acknowledged missteps during his term, including a failure to contain the race riots in Crown Heights in 1991, for which he largely blamed his police commissioner, and his refusal to break a prolonged Black boycott of a Korean-owned grocery store in Brooklyn in 1990. But he ascribed the narrowness of his victory in the 1989 mayoral election, and his defeat four years later, not to missteps but to the fact that he was Black.

“I think it was just racism, pure and simple,” he said in “A Mayor’s Life: Governing New York’s Gorgeous Mosaic,” written with Peter Knobler.

Mr. Dinkins liked to call New York’s diverse population a “gorgeous mosaic,” and in a city where the ideals of the melting pot had often been at odds with the realities of racial, ethnic and religious conflicts, he saw himself as a conciliator who, with patience and dignity, might subdue the passions of multicultural neighborhoods.

It sounded plausible in the violent election year of 1989. A white woman jogging in Central Park had been raped and savagely beaten and a group of Black and Hispanic youths arrested. (They were exonerated 13 years later after a former convict confessed to the crime.) A Black teenager had been accosted by whites and shot dead in Brooklyn. The city, plagued by drugs and homelessness, lurched from crisis to crisis. The mayoral campaign itself seemed on the brink of racial schism.

Mr. Koch, the incumbent Democrat regarded by many Black residents as insensitive to their interests, was seeking an unprecedented fourth term after years of divisive politics and corruption scandals that had ballooned around him. Mr. Giuliani, a former United States attorney in Manhattan and the fusion Republican-Liberal candidate, conveyed the pugnaciousness of a law-and-order prosecutor.

Mr. Dinkins was viewed as an uninspiring alternative. His style was ponderous and scripted; even supporters called him wooden. He was 62 and the Manhattan borough president, a post won on his third try. For 10 years he had been the city clerk, a patronage appointee who kept marriage licenses and municipal records. Long ago he had been a one-term state assemblyman.

There were questions about his personal finances. He had failed to file tax returns for four years. His political base did not reach far beyond Harlem, where he had been a clubhouse fixture for 25 years. And he had close ties to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who had rankled Jews by calling New York “Hymietown.”

But to a city fed up with racial strife and chronic crime, Mr. Dinkins offered himself as a peacemaker, and one who would aid the poor and balance budgets by spreading the pain. He delivered his message in a gentleman’s voice laced with quaint phrases like “bless your heart,” “pray tell” and “one ought to think so.”

He looked cool, even in the yellow heat of August. He was tall, slender and impeccably neat, with short gray hair and a trim mustache. He played tennis and habitually showered and changed clothes two or three times a day. He sometimes wore windbreakers, but usually turned out in elegant double-breasted suits made to order in Chinatown. He had four tuxedos, and used them often.

Cobbling together a fragile coalition of labor unions, liberals and minorities, Mr. Dinkins soundly beat Mayor Koch in the primary and, in a city dominated by Democrats, defeated Mr. Giuliani in November by one of the narrowest mayoral margins of the century.

The election signified a historic change in a city where non-Hispanic whites, though still dominant economically, were no longer a majority. And New York became the last of the nation’s 10 largest cities to elect a Black mayor.

On Jan. 1, 1990, Mr. Dinkins was sworn in before a jubilant crowd of 12,000 in City Hall Park. “I stand before you today as the elected leader of the greatest city of a great nation, to which my ancestors were brought, chained and whipped in the hold of a slave ship,” he said. “We have not finished the journey toward liberty and justice, but surely we have come a long way.”

Mr. Dinkins — who wanted to build housing, improve health care and respond to the concerns of women, people with disabilities, gay men and lesbians, the aged and minorities — was the city’s most liberal mayor since John V. Lindsay in the 1960s and early ’70s.

But the city was in trouble. Real estate and financial booms that had fueled its growth in the 1980s were over. The deepest local recession since the Great Depression had cut jobs and tax revenues and left a municipal budget hole of $1.8 billion. Homeless people occupied the streets. AIDS, heroin and crack cocaine were epidemic. Murders surpassed 1,900 a year. To the rest of the nation, the city of skyscrapers and soaring hopes seemed a cesspool of urban decay.

With federal aid to cities off significantly, Mr. Dinkins first wavered over a $28 billion budget, then cut spending for health, education, housing, social services and programs for children and older and poor people. He also raised taxes by $800 million, the largest increase in city history. (He helped bring the 1992 Democratic National Convention to New York, trying to replenish city coffers, but it was no panacea.)

Mr. Dinkins picked the most diverse range of agency leaders in history. Two women became deputy mayors, and others were named commissioners of investigations, finance, parks, human resources and housing. He appointed the city’s first Puerto Rican fire commissioner and a Black, openly gay psychiatrist as mental health commissioner. As police commissioner he chose Lee P. Brown, a Black veteran of the Atlanta and Houston forces.

It was a strong-willed cabinet of goads, gadflies and bureaucrats, and there were interagency squabbles and rivalries that the mayor seemed unable to control. Deputy mayors feuded openly, and Mr. Dinkins allowed it. Norman Steisel, the first deputy mayor, was nominally in charge, but major decisions had to be cleared by Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch Jr., the top political adviser. Intrigue and gridlock resulted.

The mayor himself was paradoxical: punctilious and demanding of subordinates, yet reluctant to make decisions until he absolutely had to. He sometimes refused to tell his commissioners what he was thinking, then complained that they did not understand him or what he wanted. Meetings often ended not with actions but with a decision to keep weighing options. It was, as one commissioner put it, “complete disarray and disorganization down there.”

Mr. Dinkins was unfailingly courteous in public, exuding charm, kissing women’s hands, speaking softly, smiling easily: the polished gentility of decades of civic functions. But privately he could be peevish, surly, even fiercely angry. And the measured style that had been a campaign asset had begun to look like indecision. A headline in The Washington Post asked, “Is Dinkins Too Nice for New York?” And The City Sun, a Brooklyn weekly for Black readers, upbraided the mayor, writing, “Frankly, you are beginning to look like a wimp.” 

By summer 1990, Mr. Dinkins was on the defensive, reacting to a series of chilling crimes, including random shootings related to gangs and drugs that took the lives of children caught in the crossfire. The mayor found himself under pressure to respond, but said he was waiting for Commissioner Brown’s report on overhauling his department.

Then a young tourist from Utah was stabbed to death as he tried to protect his mother from a subway mugger. Outrage ensued. Editorials called the mayor ineffectual and suggested that the city was suffering a morale crisis.

Finally, in October, a shaken Mr. Dinkins offered a barrage of anti-crime proposals, including a record expansion of the police and a plan to return officers to neighborhood beats. “We will not wage war by degree,” he said, calling for thousands of new officers to bring department strength to 42,400.

Controversy also swirled around his failure to resolve a Black boycott of a Korean grocery in Brooklyn. It began when a Haitian-American woman said a store worker had insulted and assaulted her. The owner said the woman had not paid for groceries. A Black crowd defended her, and the confrontation widened into a boycott that went on for months, with protests, rallies and threats. Diplomacy went nowhere. The contretemps finally faded and the grocery was sold. But the mayor, who had gone on television to appeal for racial tolerance, fared badly, so reluctant to offend either side that he had alienated both.

“It may well be that I waited an overly long time to take this step,” Mr. Dinkins wrote in his memoir, referring to his televised appeal for tolerance, “but I had faith in the court system and in the rationality of people to come to satisfactory conclusions among themselves. I may have been wrong on both counts.”

Racial problems surfaced again in Brooklyn in summer 1991. A dozen bias-related episodes erupted in Canarsie, a predominantly white neighborhood, including attacks on Black people and the firebombing of a white-owned real estate office. As civil liberties groups marched in protest, the mayor met with community leaders. He tried to walk a fine line, denouncing bigotry but avoiding phrases that might taint the community as racist. It sounded tepid.

The events that came to symbolize the failures and ultimate downfall of the Dinkins administration unfolded in August 1991 in Crown Heights, a neighborhood of Black Caribbean-Americans and Hasidic Jews who had long been at loggerheads.

The trouble began when a car driven by a Hasidic Jew, part of the entourage of the Lubavitcher grand rebbe, Menachem M. Schneerson, struck and killed Gavin Cato, a Black 7-year-old. Hours later, in apparent retaliation, a mob of Black teenagers surrounded Yankel Rosenbaum, a 29-year-old Hasidic scholar from Australia, who was fatally stabbed. Rioting and fights flared over four days. Stores were looted and dozens of residents and police officers were injured. The outbreak ended only after Mr. Dinkins acknowledged police failures and ordered more effective tactics to quell the violence.

There was no evidence that Mr. Dinkins had restrained the police from protecting Hasidic Jews from marauding Black residents, as some Jews charged. Indeed, he had visited Mr. Rosenbaum on his deathbed and confronted angry members of a Black crowd who had hurled bottles at him. But he was widely criticized for not moving quickly enough. Even Mr. Dinkins conceded that the police had failed to suppress the violence for three days. Jews denounced the mayor for months, and that was hardly the end of the matter.

In 1992, a Black teenager charged with killing Mr. Rosenbaum was acquitted in a jury trial, touching off more protests. Mr. Dinkins was vilified for not repudiating the verdict. Meanwhile, Black residents of Crown Heights accused the mayor of pandering to the Hasidim. The mayor went on television to answer his critics and defend his handling of the crisis. He also went to Crown Heights to appeal for harmony.

But as Mr. Dinkins sought re-election in 1993, a state report concluded that he had been slow to appreciate the gravity of the situation, failed to question police commanders assertively and did not act decisively until the fourth day to switch tactics and end the violence.

Mr. Giuliani, riding a groundswell of voter disaffection, narrowly defeated Mr. Dinkins in November, winning the Republican vote, white neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens and on Staten Island and Democrats alienated by Crown Heights and other race-related events. Some Dinkins supporters said he had always been held to a different standard because of his race. But if he believed that, he never said so publicly.

Long after his defeat, Mr. Dinkins remained haunted by Crown Heights. Hasidic leaders accused him and the city in a lawsuit of failing to protect them during the riots. It was settled by the Giuliani administration in 1998 for $1.1 million, and Mayor Giuliani, in a clear slap at Mr. Dinkins, apologized for the city’s “clearly inadequate response” to the crisis. Mr. Dinkins, who was not held personally liable for damages, called the settlement blatantly political.

But in a gesture of conciliation, he invited Mr. Giuliani to dine with him. “As much as we disagree,” he said, “I extend to him my hand in brotherhood.” Mr. Giuliani refused.

Mr. Dinkins, in his memoir, denounced Mr. Giuliani as “a cold, unkind person” who practiced “the politics of boundless ambition without the guidance of a set of core beliefs or the humility and restraint of experience.”

He recalled that the comedian Jackie Mason, who supported Mr. Giuliani in the 1993 election, called Mr. Dinkins a “fancy schvartze,” using a derogatory Yiddish term for Black people. He was “essentially calling me a nigger,” Mr. Dinkins wrote. He said that Mr. Giuliani’s underlying campaign message was: “The city is in terrible financial straits. Do you really want a Black man presiding over it in this time of trouble?”

David Norman Dinkins was born on July 10, 1927, in Trenton, N.J., the son of Sally and William Harvey Dinkins Jr., who had moved from Virginia the previous year. His parents separated when he was in the first grade (they later divorced), and he and his younger sister, Joyce, moved to Harlem with their mother, who worked as a dollar-a-day domestic servant.

The children soon returned to Trenton to live with their father and his new wife, Lottie Hartgell. David was a good student, particularly in Latin, at Trenton Central High School. After graduating in 1945, he served briefly in the Army, but transferred to the Marine Corps and spent most of his 13-month hitch at Camp Lejeune, in North Carolina. Discharged in August 1946, he enrolled at the historically Black Howard University in Washington on the G.I. Bill of Rights, majored in mathematics and graduated with honors in 1950.

At Howard, he met Joyce Burrows, a sociology major whom he married in 1953 after her graduation. They had two children, David Jr. and Donna Dinkins Hoggard. Mr. Dinkins is survived by his children, two grandchildren and his sister, Joyce Belton.

Mr. Dinkins and his wife settled in Harlem, where her father, Daniel L. Burrows, was a real estate and insurance broker with political connections. Mr. Burrows had served two terms in the State Assembly and was one of the first Black lawmakers to join the inner circle of Tammany Hall, the Manhattan Democratic machine. A godfather to a generation of Harlem politicians, he took Mr. Dinkins under his wing.

Mr. Dinkins attended Brooklyn Law School, working nights at his father-in-law’s liquor store and graduated in 1956. He joined a firm that became Dyett, Alexander &amp; Dinkins, establishing a modest practice in banking, probate and real estate. And he joined the Carver Democratic Club, run by J. Raymond Jones, a.k.a. the Harlem Fox, who mentored many of the district’s business and political leaders.

Mr. Dinkins’s political apprenticeship was a long, slow passage in obscurity. With Mr. Jones’s support, he was elected to the Assembly in 1965. But his district was redrawn, and he did not seek re-election. He would not win another election for almost 20 years.

In Harlem, he was a perpetual fourth in the group called the Gang of Four, the others being — Charles B. Rangel, who would become a senior member of Congress; Percy E. Sutton, a future Manhattan borough president; and Basil A. Paterson, a state senator who would be deputy mayor under Mr. Koch and whose son, David A. Paterson, was governor of New York from March 2008 through 2010.

As president of the city’s appointive Board of Elections in 1972-73, Mr. Dinkins widened voter rolls. In 1973, he was nominated by Mayor Abraham D. Beame to be the city’s first Black deputy mayor, but he withdrew after admitting that he had not filed income tax returns from 1969 to 1972. He called it an oversight and paid the taxes and penalties, but it was a severe setback.

In 1975, Mayor Beame appointed Mr. Dinkins city clerk, a post he held for a decade. It was not political downtime. Almost every night, Mr. Dinkins attended dinners and made contacts. He lost races for the Manhattan borough presidency in 1977 and 1981 but finally won the post in 1985. Over the next four years, he enhanced his reputation as a friend of the poor, the homeless and people with AIDS.

As Mr. Dinkins ran for mayor in 1989, two crimes set the campaign’s dominant racial themes. In April, the woman who became known as the Central Park jogger was raped, beaten and left for dead. In August, just weeks before the primary, Yusuf K. Hawkins, 16, was killed after being taunted by bat-wielding white youths in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.

Mr. Dinkins, cool in his double-breasted suit, became the calm voice of reason in the tense city.





No.5 article:
Unemployment Scam Using Inmates’ Names Costs California Hundreds of Millions

Investigators say the payment of benefits claimed with the names of prisoners, including many on death row, “appears to be the most significant fraud on taxpayer funds in California history.”

SACRAMENTO — A rash of fraudulent pandemic unemployment claims filed under the names of jail and prison inmates, including more than 100 on death row, has bilked California out of hundreds of millions of dollars, a law enforcement task force said Tuesday.

In a letter to Gov. Gavin Newsom, the task force, led by district attorneys from San Diego to Fresno Counties, asked for “significant resources” to combat “what appears to be the most significant fraud on taxpayer funds in California history,” and wrote that claims had been paid under the names of tens of thousands of incarcerated Californians.

In most cases, task force members said, the payments were sent in the form of prepaid debit cards to addresses designated on the applications, with the proceeds later deposited to inmate accounts in jail and prisons, but in some, the benefits were sent directly to the institutions.

Among the named beneficiaries: Cary Stayner, a serial killer who murdered four women near Yosemite National Park in 1999; Wayne Ford, another serial killer, who confessed to at least four murders in 1997 and 1998 in Northern California; Scott Peterson, convicted in 2004 of the murder of his pregnant wife, Laci; and Isauro Aguirre, who, with his girlfriend, tortured and murdered her 8-year-old son, Gabriel Fernandez, in 2013 in Palmdale, Calif.

“It’s behemoth,” said the Sacramento County district attorney, Anne Marie Schubert, who since last month has been chairing the task force. “And it’s not just happening here.”

In a statement, Mr. Newsom thanked the district attorneys “for their commitment to resolving this issue,” and said his Office of Emergency Services was creating a task force to coordinate state efforts.

“Unemployment fraud across local jails and state and federal prisons is absolutely unacceptable,” he said.

California, like many states, has struggled with unemployment abuse during the pandemic. When businesses began to shut down in the spring, a tidal wave of applications for benefits overwhelmed state unemployment systems and caused weekslong processing backlogs. Those delays worsened when Congress created new programs in response to the pandemic that made benefits more generous and expanded eligibility.

With millions of Americans out of work, states faced enormous pressure to start paying out benefits quickly. They were largely successful: By early May, some 30 million people were receiving payments, according to federal data. Economists widely credit the expanded benefits programs, along with other forms of federal aid, with stabilizing the economy and protecting millions of families from lasting financial harm.

But the rush to process unemployment applications also opened the door for fraud. The S.O.S. sent up on Tuesday in California by the district attorneys underscored the breathtaking scope of the state’s problem. And it drew attention to similar reports of fraud in Massachusetts, Illinois, Kansas and other states.

In August, a fraud ring operating out of the San Mateo County jail was broken up after law enforcement officers overheard inmates talking about fake claims being filed on behalf of inmates. The San Mateo district attorney, Stephen Wagstaffe, said 22 people have been charged so far. Most, he said, were already in custody but at least one remains at large on $1 million bail, at least some of which is believed to have been covered by the proceeds of unemployment fraud.

In September, the Beverly Hills police arrested 44 people and seized pre-loaded debit cards worth more than $2.5 million in unemployment benefits issued by the California Employment Development Department, which processes unemployment claims.

That month, a “strike team” formed by the governor to speed claims and address other chronic issues at the department issued a report recommending improvements, and the department suspended processing for two weeks to shore up controls and reduce a growing backlog. Mr. Newsom said in his statement that he had also instructed the department to address reports of fraud in correctional facilities.

But with only 17 fraud investigators at the department, the fraud reports persisted.

In October, federal authorities in Los Angeles arrested Fontrell Antonio Baines, a rapper who performs as Nuke Bizzle, for allegedly using identity theft to fraudulently obtain more than $1.2 million in federal pandemic unemployment assistance, which expanded existing benefits during the pandemic to self-employed and independent workers. In a YouTube music video, the musician held up stacks of pre-loaded debit cards issued by the Employment Development Department and another man rapped, “You gotta sell cocaine, I just file a claim.”

The district attorneys said they partnered with the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation to further investigate unemployment after the “strike team” failed to uncover the large kinds of unemployment fraud they were seeing. Mr. Newsom said the effort was also based on his direction.

Part of the problem, the task force wrote, was that, unlike at least 35 other states, California lacks the technology to crosscheck its state prison rolls and jail rosters against its lists of unemployment insurance claimants.

About two weeks ago, however, the group received a crosscheck from the U.S. Department of Labor between federal unemployment insurance claims data and a list of California prison inmates that federal officials had subpoenaed from the state.

The 35,000-plus payments sent out in the name of state prisoners alone, they discovered, totaled more than $140 million between March and August, with nearly a half-million dollars disbursed in the names of 133 death row inmates. Among the largest: a claim for $19,676 disbursed in the name of a death row inmate and another for $48,600 in the name of another felon.

The crosscheck did not include the state’s 58 county jails, state hospitals where sexually violent predators and mentally ill inmates are incarcerated or other institutions where people are being held under civil commitments.

However, Ms. Schubert said, the task force investigation has uncovered fraudulent claims filed under the names and Social Security numbers of inmates at every level of the corrections system, including most of the jails, all of the state’s 30-plus prisons and thousands of federal prisoners.

A spokeswoman for the Employment Development Department said it would be “pursuing how to integrate such cross-matches moving forward as part of enhanced prevention efforts during this unprecedented time of pandemic-related unemployment fraud across the country. In addition, EDD is working collaboratively with state cybersecurity experts.”

“The volume of fraud as well as the types of inmates involved is staggering,” the task force wrote to Mr. Newsom, adding that many of the claims filed under the names of inmates were being paid to recipients in other states and, in some cases, other countries.

“This needs to be halted,” Ms. Schubert said. “We are paying hundreds of millions of dollars in the name of serial killers, rapists and child molesters. We need to turn the spigot off.”





No.6 article:
Yellen Would Assume Vast Policy Portfolio as Treasury Secretary

From trade and sanctions to tax policy and financial regulation, the former Fed chair will be at the center of the new administration’s agenda.

WASHINGTON — Janet L. Yellen’s expected nomination as Treasury secretary will place the former Federal Reserve chair into a critical role overseeing President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s economic and national security agenda at an agency that has increasingly become a center of power.

While Ms. Yellen’s views on monetary policy are well known from her time leading the central bank, her perspective on a range of issues that are part of the Treasury Department’s portfolio is less known.

As Treasury secretary, Ms. Yellen will be the Biden administration’s chief economic diplomat and will face the challenge of re-engaging with American allies that have been put off by President Trump’s “America first” economic policies, including his use of tariffs. She will most likely be the point person in negotiations with China and will have substantial input on trade policy, along with the use of U.S. sanctions on countries such as Iran and North Korea.

Domestically, Ms. Yellen will be the driving force behind the Biden administration’s tax policy — a significant role given that Mr. Biden made raising taxes on wealthy Americans and corporations a central part of his campaign. Ms. Yellen will also have the chance to tweak regulations stemming from Mr. Trump’s 2017 tax cuts, which left a great deal up to the Treasury in terms of putting a new taxing regime in place for multinational corporations. Under a Biden administration, the department could revise those regulations to raise taxes on some companies that operate abroad.

And she will also be at the center of the government’s borrowing spree, which is financed by issuing Treasury securities and has pushed the U.S. budget deficit to levels not seen since World War II.

Here is what we know, so far, about Ms. Yellen’s views in several areas where she will have a role to play.

While Ms. Yellen is known for being dovish on monetary policy — meaning she supports lower interest rates — she has on many occasions expressed concern about the fiscal path of the United States and the amount of money it is borrowing.

Ms. Yellen’s fiscal worries came before the coronavirus pandemic and the current downturn, a moment when most economists have encouraged the United States to not worry about the deficit and to spend as much as necessary to help households and businesses weather the slump.

Still, Ms. Yellen’s previous comments suggest that she could be reluctant to push for big spending programs without raising taxes to offset the budgetary hit. The federal budget deficit soared to a record $3.1 trillion in the 2020 fiscal year and Republicans, who are expected to control the Senate, have once again started expressing concerns about how much the country is borrowing.

In a 2018 interview at the Charles Schwab Impact conference in Washington, Ms. Yellen said the United States’ debt path was “unsustainable” and offered a remedy: “If I had a magic wand, I would raise taxes and cut retirement spending.”

Last year, Ms. Yellen touched on the third rail of Democratic politics when she suggested more directly that cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security could be in order.

“I think it will not be solved without some additional revenues on the table, but I also find it hard to believe that it won’t be solved without some changes to those programs,” Ms. Yellen said at the National Investment Center for Seniors Housing &amp; Care Fall Conference.

Ms. Yellen added that political candidates and Congress did not like to deal with overhauling America’s social safety net programs which — according to McKnight’s Senior Living, a trade publication — she described as “root canal economics.”

Ms. Yellen is also a board member of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a nonpartisan organization that preaches fiscal restraint.

As Treasury secretary, Ms. Yellen will inherit a battered global trading system destabilized by Mr. Trump’s aggressive approach to U.S. trade policy. She will have to confront a variety of decisions, including whether to continue Mr. Trump’s escalating sanctions on Chinese firms and officials, or his restrictions on the presence of Chinese companies on American stock markets and in retirement portfolios.

Ms. Yellen is known for her strong support of open trade and the international trading system, though she has not hesitated to criticize China’s trade practices.

Like many on Mr. Biden’s team, Ms. Yellen appears to agree that many of the problems often ascribed to trade policy actually stem from the reluctance of American officials to use domestic policies to support workers experiencing the worst effects of globalization.

Ms. Yellen has credited globalization and trade liberalization with raising growth and lowering poverty around the world, but she has also said that these trends fueled inequality and the rise of populism, leading to a backlash against America’s trade practices. She has expressed concern about the country’s retreat from a role of international leadership under Mr. Trump, and support for the World Trade Organization.

Ms. Yellen was the president of the American Economic Association leading into its annual meeting in January, which drew thousands of economists to San Diego. She organized the schedule of the conference, she said in an interview, to focus heavily on sessions outlining the benefits of free trade and immigration to national economies and the world — a position very much at odds with the Trump administration. “I organized the program, and I think it’s not an accident you’re seeing it,” she said. “I think it’s very important.”

Like many economists, Ms. Yellen criticized Mr. Trump’s focus on bilateral trade deficits, described his tariffs on China as a tax on American consumers and warned that his trade wars posed a recession risk for the U.S. economy.

She also expressed skepticism about Mr. Trump’s eventual trade deal with China, saying it left hefty tariffs in place that did little to help American manufacturers and did not resolve a “troublesome” clash with China over technologies like 5G and artificial intelligence.

“We have very difficult issues that lie ahead,” Ms. Yellen said in a speech in Hong Kong in January, in which she urged countries to remain open to the “synergies” from sharing and exchanging technology around the world.

But Ms. Yellen has also acknowledged that the United States has “real issues” and “many valid concerns” in its trade relations with China, in particular China’s infringement of American intellectual property, its subsidization of state-owned enterprises and its walling off of crucial technology markets to foreign competition.

As with many moderates in Mr. Biden’s administration, any policy recommendations Ms. Yellen makes on China are likely to be constrained by Beijing’s increasingly aggressive and authoritarian behavior, as well as harsh China sentiments among both Democrats and Republicans in Washington.

From her perch at the Brookings Institution, Ms. Yellen has voiced concern over the Trump administration’s regulatory rollbacks, including those being done at the Fed.

Ms. Yellen said this spring that the 2008 crisis showed that the Fed should be proactive in suspending bank payouts.

“We learned that we let way too much money out the door in that crisis,” she said in an April interview. “We don’t know where this is going. This is really a tail event and a great threat to the country.”

In the months since, Fed officials have stopped banks from buying back their own shares but only curbed dividends.

But it is not just the banks she has worried about. She has also singled out money market mutual funds as a source of financial system instability. And, speaking on a Brookings panel in June, Ms. Yellen said the coronavirus exposed lingering vulnerabilities in the financial system, which choked up in March before the Fed stepped in to soothe it.

“The pandemic showed that the risks were very real and serious” when it came to a popular financial position that hedge funds had amassed and then tried to unwind when trading got tough in March, exacerbating market volatility. She also flagged money market funds, where investors park savings to earn more return than bank accounts offer, and the practice of lending to already-indebted borrowers — called leveraged lending — as recognized but unfixed weak spots.

“These were things that were known; they weren’t addressed,” she said.

As Treasury secretary, Ms. Yellen would lead the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group set up after the 2008 crisis to monitor and respond to financial stability risks. That would give her significant leeway to train regulatory focus on the areas of concern she has been flagging.

In her post-Fed years, Ms. Yellen has also focused on climate change risks. She served as a chair of the Group of 30 Working Group on Climate Change and Finance, which released a report this year urging governments, regulators and financial companies to make moves that would sharply curb carbon emissions.

“Carbon prices should gradually increase over time to incentivize firms and speed the shift to net zero,” Ms. Yellen said when the report was released.

Her place at the head of the oversight council will give her an important podium from which to talk about green finance. A report sponsored by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission this year urged the council to begin focusing on climate risk more concretely.





No.7 article:
Facebook Struggles to Balance Civility and Growth

Employees and executives are battling over how to reduce misinformation and hate speech without hurting the company’s bottom line.

SAN FRANCISCO — In the tense days after the presidential election, a team of Facebook employees presented the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, with an alarming finding: Election-related misinformation was going viral on the site.

President Trump was already casting the election as rigged, and stories from right-wing media outlets with false and misleading claims about discarded ballots, miscounted votes and skewed tallies were among the most popular news stories on the platform.

In response, the employees proposed an emergency change to the site’s news feed algorithm, which helps determine what more than two billion people see every day. It involved emphasizing the importance of what Facebook calls “news ecosystem quality” scores, or N.E.Q., a secret internal ranking it assigns to news publishers based on signals about the quality of their journalism.

Typically, N.E.Q. scores play a minor role in determining what appears on users’ feeds. But several days after the election, Mr. Zuckerberg agreed to increase the weight that Facebook’s algorithm gave to N.E.Q. scores to make sure authoritative news appeared more prominently, said three people with knowledge of the decision, who were not authorized to discuss internal deliberations.

The change was part of the “break glass” plans Facebook had spent months developing for the aftermath of a contested election. It resulted in a spike in visibility for big, mainstream publishers like CNN, The New York Times and NPR, while posts from highly engaged hyperpartisan pages, such as Breitbart and Occupy Democrats, became less visible, the employees said.

It was a vision of what a calmer, less divisive Facebook might look like. Some employees argued the change should become permanent, even if it was unclear how that might affect the amount of time people spent on Facebook. In an employee meeting the week after the election, workers asked whether the “nicer news feed” could stay, said two people who attended.

Guy Rosen, a Facebook executive who oversees the integrity division that is in charge of cleaning up the platform, said on a call with reporters last week that the changes were always meant to be temporary. “There has never been a plan to make these permanent,” he said. John Hegeman, who oversees the news feed, said in an interview that while Facebook might roll back these experiments, it would study and learn from them.

The news feed debate illustrates a central tension that some inside Facebook are feeling acutely these days: that the company’s aspirations of improving the world are often at odds with its desire for dominance.

In the past several months, as Facebook has come under more scrutiny for its role in amplifying false and divisive information, its employees have clashed over the company’s future. On one side are idealists, including many rank-and-file workers and some executives, who want to do more to limit misinformation and polarizing content. On the other side are pragmatists who fear those measures could hurt Facebook’s growth, or provoke a political backlash that leads to painful regulation.

“There are tensions in virtually every product decision we make and we’ve developed a companywide framework called ‘Better Decisions’ to ensure we make our decisions accurately, and that our goals are directly connected to delivering the best possible experiences for people,” said Joe Osborne, a Facebook spokesman.

These battles have taken a toll on morale. In an employee survey this month, Facebook workers reported feeling less pride in the company compared to previous years. About half felt that Facebook was having a positive impact on the world, down from roughly three-quarters earlier this year, according to a copy of the survey, known as Pulse, which was reviewed by The New York Times. Employees’ “intent to stay” also dropped, as did confidence in leadership.

BuzzFeed News previously reported on the survey results.

Even as Election Day and its aftermath have passed with few incidents, some disillusioned employees have quit, saying they could no longer stomach working for a company whose products they considered harmful. Others have stayed, reasoning they can make more of a difference on the inside. Still others have made the moral calculation that even with its flaws, Facebook is, on balance, doing more good than harm.

“Facebook salaries are among the highest in tech right now, and when you’re walking home with a giant paycheck every two weeks, you have to tell yourself that it’s for a good cause,” said Gregor Hochmuth, a former engineer with Instagram, which Facebook owns, who left in 2014. “Otherwise, your job is truly no different from other industries that wreck the planet and pay their employees exorbitantly to help them forget.”

With most employees working remotely during the pandemic, much of the soul-searching has taken place on Facebook’s internal Workplace network.

In May, during the heat of the Black Lives Matter protests, Mr. Zuckerberg angered many employees when he declined to remove a post by President Trump that said “when the looting starts, the shooting starts.” Lawmakers and civil rights groups said the post threatened violence against protesters and called for it to be taken down. But Mr. Zuckerberg said the post did not violate Facebook’s rules.

To signal their dissatisfaction, several employees formed a new Workplace group called “Take Action.” People in the group, which swelled to more than 1,500 members, pointedly changed their profile photos to an image of a raised “Black Lives Matter” fist.

The group became a home for internal dissent and dark humor about Facebook’s foibles. On several occasions, employees reacted to negative news stories about the company by posting a meme from a British comedy sketch in which two Nazis have a moral epiphany and ask themselves, “Are we the baddies?”

In June, employees staged a virtual walkout to protest Mr. Zuckerberg’s decisions regarding Mr. Trump’s posts. 

In September, Facebook updated its employee policies to discourage workers from holding contentious political debates in open Workplace forums, saying they should confine the conversations to specifically designated spaces. It also required employees to use their real faces or the first initial of their names as their profile photo, a change interpreted by some workers as a crackdown.

Several employees said they were frustrated that to tackle thorny issues like misinformation, they often had to demonstrate that their proposed solutions wouldn’t anger powerful partisans or come at the expense of Facebook’s growth.

The trade-offs came into focus this month, when Facebook engineers and data scientists posted the results of a series of experiments called “P(Bad for the World).”

The company had surveyed users about whether certain posts they had seen were “good for the world” or “bad for the world.” They found that high-reach posts — posts seen by many users — were more likely to be considered “bad for the world,” a finding that some employees said alarmed them.

So the team trained a machine-learning algorithm to predict posts that users would consider “bad for the world” and demote them in news feeds. In early tests, the new algorithm successfully reduced the visibility of objectionable content. But it also lowered the number of times users opened Facebook, an internal metric known as “sessions” that executives monitor closely.

“The results were good except that it led to a decrease in sessions, which motivated us to try a different approach,” according to a summary of the results, which was posted to Facebook’s internal network and reviewed by The Times.

The team then ran a second experiment, tweaking the algorithm so that a larger set of “bad for the world” content would be demoted less strongly. While that left more objectionable posts in users’ feeds, it did not reduce their sessions or time spent.

That change was ultimately approved. But other features employees developed before the election never were.

One, called “correct the record,” would have retroactively notified users that they had interacted with false news and directed them to an independent fact-check. Facebook employees proposed expanding the product, which is currently used to notify people who have shared Covid-19 misinformation, to apply to other types of misinformation.

But that was vetoed by policy executives who feared it would disproportionately show notifications to people who shared false news from right-wing websites, according to two people familiar with the conversations.

Another product, an algorithm to classify and demote “hate bait” — posts that don’t strictly violate Facebook’s hate speech rules, but that provoke a flood of hateful comments — was limited to being used only on groups, rather than pages, after the policy team determined that it would primarily affect right-wing publishers if it were applied more broadly, said two people with knowledge of the conversations.

Mr. Rosen, the Facebook integrity executive, disputed those characterizations in an interview, which was held on the condition that he not be quoted directly.

He said that the “correct the record” tool wasn’t as effective as hoped, and that the company had decided to focus on other ways of curbing misinformation. He also said applying the “hate bait” detector to Facebook pages could unfairly punish publishers for hateful comments left by their followers, or make it possible for bad actors to hurt a page’s reach by spamming it with toxic comments. Neither project was shelved because of political concerns or because it reduced Facebook usage, he said.

“No News Feed product change is ever solely made because of its impact on time spent,” said Mr. Osborne, the Facebook spokesman. He added that the people talking to The Times had no decision-making authority. 

Facebook&#x27;s moves to clean up its platform will be made easier, in some ways, by the end of the Trump administration. For years, Mr. Trump and other leading conservatives accused the company of anti-conservative bias each time it took steps to limit misinformation.

But even with an incoming Biden administration, Facebook will need to balance employees’ desire for social responsibility with its business goals.

“The question is, what have they learned from this election that should inform their policies in the future?&quot; said Vanita Gupta, the chief executive of the civil rights group Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “My worry is that they’ll revert all of these changes despite the fact that the conditions that brought them forward are still with us.”

In a virtual employee meeting last week, executives described what they viewed as Facebook’s election successes, said two people who attended. While the site was still filled with posts falsely claiming the election was rigged, Chris Cox, Facebook’s chief product officer, said he was proud of how the company had applied labels to election-related misinformation, pointing users to authoritative information about the results, the people said.

Then the stream cut to a pre-produced video, a Thanksgiving morale-booster featuring a parade of employees talking about what they were grateful for this year.





No.8 article:
U.K. Woman Who Joined ISIS in Syria Asks High Court to Let Her Return Home

Shamima Begum, who traveled to Syria in 2015 as a teenager and remains in detention there, is challenging a decision by the British authorities to revoke her citizenship.

LONDON — Lawyers representing Shamima Begum, a London schoolgirl who traveled to Syria in 2015 to join the Islamic State, on Tuesday called on Britain’s Supreme Court to allow her to return to her home country to mount her defense, saying the court should not assume she posed a serious threat.

A decision in the case, which has been hotly debated in Britain after the government said Ms. Begum would be stripped of her British nationality, could leave her stateless, or pave the way for a landmark trial in Britain.

Ms. Begum is seeking to return to Britain to challenge a decision last year by the government of Theresa May, the prime minister at the time, to revoke her citizenship on the grounds that she posed a threat to national security.

David Pannick, one of Ms. Begum’s lawyers, argued on the final day of a two-day hearing at Britain’s highest court that it had been difficult for Ms. Begum to communicate with her lawyers from the camp in Syria where she is being detained, and that she could only properly mount her defense in Britain.

“It cannot be assumed that because Ms. Begum traveled to Syria to join ISIL, she is a continuing threat,” Mr. Pannick added, using an acronym for the Islamic State.

The Supreme Court’s decision is expected at a later, unspecified date.

Ms. Begum’s case underlines the challenges faced by several European governments, including Britain, France and Germany, that have been reluctant to repatriate citizens who traveled to Islamic State territories, many of whom are now detained in dire conditions by Kurdish forces in northeastern Syria.

“What gets decided will have cascading consequences for the many men and women who are being held in Syria and Iraq,” said Shiraz Maher, the director of the International Center for the Study of Radicalization and Political Violence at King’s College London. “That’s why the British government has been so keen to fight this up to the Supreme Court, because it could open the floodgates.”

Ms. Begum, now 21, boarded a flight from London to Turkey with two friends in 2015 and then entered Syria to join the Islamic State, later marrying a Dutch fighter there and giving birth to three children, all of whom have since died. One of those friends, Kadiza Sultana, is believed to have been killed in an airstrike in Syria in 2016; the fate of the other, Amira Abase, is unknown.

As the Islamic State lost control of its last territories in early 2019, a British journalist located Ms. Begum in the al-Hol detention camp in February. She pleaded with the authorities to “re-evaluate my case, with a bit of mercy in their heart,” but Sajid Javid, then the British home secretary, revoked Ms. Begum’s citizenship.

The legal battle that ensued, including the Supreme Court hearing this week, has made Ms. Begum’s case one of the most emblematic among European fighters or militants who joined the Islamic State.

Rights groups and lawyers representing Ms. Begum have raised concerns that she could become stateless if stripped of her British citizenship. Ms. Begum, who was born in Britain and grew up in east London, appealed the decision last year, but a special tribunal ruled that it was lawful because she had the right to become a citizen of Bangladesh through her mother, who holds citizenship in that country.

Under British law, the home secretary can revoke the citizenship of a single-nationality holder if there is “reasonable ground” to believe they can acquire citizenship elsewhere. The Bangladeshi authorities, however, have said that they have no intention of granting Ms. Begum citizenship.

In July, Britain’s Court of Appeal ruled that Ms. Begum could only be granted a “fair and effective appeal” regarding her citizenship if she was able to come back to her home country. The British government appealed that decision, and Ms. Begum’s case was taken up by the Supreme Court.

Ms. Begum has challenged Britain’s decisions to deprive her of citizenship and to refuse her permission to return to her home country.

European governments have, for the most part, repatriated unaccompanied children directly from Syria, with the notable exceptions of Germany and Italy, which have repatriated mothers along with their children. Women have usually returned after being arrested in Turkey.

Mr. Maher, from King’s College, said that while public opinion in Britain was concerned about potential attacks by returnees, the same returnees could be seen as inspirational to others. 

“The government is walking a very delicate line in that it needs enough evidence to prosecute people for membership of ISIS or crimes committed with the group,” he added.

James Eadie, a lawyer representing the British government at the Supreme Court hearing, argued on Monday that Ms. Begum had undergone radicalization and “desensitization to violence” during her years with the terrorist group, and that she still posed “a real and current threat to national security.”

Mr. Pannick countered that Ms. Begum had a “statutory right to a meaningful appeal,” which, he argued, “is not subject to any relevant national security exception.” He added that, unlike journalists, lawyers had not been allowed in the camp, making it difficult to interact with  clients. 

Tom Hickman, another lawyer acting for Ms. Begum this week, argued on Tuesday that the decision to strip Ms. Begum of her citizenship could violate the European Convention on Human Rights, to which Britain is a signatory.

Ms. Begum is one of two dozen British adults currently detained in Syria and Iraq along with 35 children, according to figures compiled by the Egmont Institute, a Brussels-based research group. Overall, more than 400 Europeans suspected of being militants remain detained there, about 200 of whom are French and about 150 German.

Most reside in the squalid al-Hol camp, where Ms. Begum was previously detained, and where security and humanitarian access has worsened after Turkish forces invaded northern Syria last fall.

There have been multiple reports of violence among residents in al-Hol, as well as attempts by radicalized women to impose Islamic State-style laws in the camp. “Women who now reject militancy are forced to live intermingled with committed jihadists in conditions that enable abuse and intimidation,” the International Crisis Group wrote in January, describing the conditions in the camp as “abysmal.”

Ms. Begum is currently detained in al-Roj, a smaller camp also in northeastern Syria. Earlier this year, Kurdish forces transferred dozens of foreign women and children there from al-Hol, to increase security and improve the detainees’ living conditions.

In al-Roj, Kurdish forces have forbidden the black clothes and full-face coverings worn by members of the Islamic State, according to officials there. About 4,000 people remain in the camp, according to International Crisis Group, compared with tens of thousands in al-Hol.





No.9 article:
Fred Hills, Editor of Nabokov and Many Others, Dies at 85

A longtime editor at Simon &amp; Schuster, he brought to market both commercial hits and literary prizewinners and edited more than 50 New York Times best sellers.

It was 1958, and Fred Hills, a graduate student trying to earn some extra cash, was selling books at the Emporium department store in San Francisco. He picked up a copy of Vladimir Nabokov’s “Lolita,” which had just been published in the United States, and read the opening: “Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul.”

Mr. Hills was so electrified that he paid the full retail price of $5 for the hardback — the first he had ever bought, apart from textbooks.

He always remembered that first encounter with Nabokov with great fondness — and with astonishment that in time he would become Nabokov’s editor. He worked with the author on a half-dozen books and on a screen adaptation of “Lolita” that Nabokov published in 1974, long after Stanley Kubrick’s film version had been released, in 1962. (Nabokov’s version had a running time of nine hours; Mr. Hills cut it to two.)

In the twilight of Nabokov’s career, Mr. Hills traveled to Zermatt, Switzerland, and between editing sessions on his last completed novel, “Look at the Harlequins!” (1974), the two went butterfly hunting together in the foothills of the Matterhorn. (Nabokov was a distinguished lepidopterist.)

At the end of his own career, after Mr. Hills had been editor in chief at McGraw Hill and then a senior editor at Simon &amp; Schuster for more than a quarter-century, after he had helped give birth to the books of several prominent authors, he remained most awed by Nabokov, whom he called a glorious stylist.

“Having worked with many other writers,” he told the Nabokov Online Journal in 2019, “I still believe that Nabokov was the most dazzling of them all.”

Mr. Hills died on Nov. 7 at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 85. His wife, Kathleen Matthews, a writer of nonfiction books, said the cause was complications of prostate cancer.

During his four decades in publishing, Mr. Hills brought to market both commercial hits and literary prizewinners and edited more than 50 New York Times best sellers.

His stable of authors encompassed an eclectic assortment from multiple genres — Heinrich Böll and Jane Fonda, Justin Kaplan and William Saroyan, Raymond Carver and James MacGregor Burns, Sumner Redstone and Joan Kennedy, Phil Donahue and David Halberstam.

The alphabetized cards in his massive Rolodex showed just how wide-ranging his contacts were: After Bruce Lee came Harper Lee.

So varied was his work that he likened being an editor to being a hermit crab. “We inhabit an author’s shell for a year or two, get the feel of that world, and then scuttle along to the next one,” he said.

At Simon &amp; Schuster, Mr. Hills was believed to have set a record for an editor by producing nine Times hardcover nonfiction best sellers in one 12-month period, from 1990 to 1991. Among those titles were Daniel Yergin’s “The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power,” which won the Pulitzer Prize; Dr. Isadore Rosenfeld’s “The Best Treatment,” a guide to treating ailments of all sorts; and Christopher Andersen’s “Madonna Unauthorized,” a biography of the pop star.

In Mr. Hills’s hands, an author was safe from the scratching of a pointed red pencil and would instead be nudged by gentle persuasion.

“He understands that positive comments elicit stronger manuscripts than harsh criticism does,” Ann Rule, the true-crime writer best known for “The Stranger Beside Me” (1980), about the serial killer Ted Bundy, wrote of Mr. Hills on his retirement from Simon &amp; Schuster in 2006.

On the same occasion, Mr. Yergin praised Mr. Hills’s “inimitable balance between patience and subtle pressure,” and said he treasured Mr. Hills’s view of the editor-author relationship as one of “unindicted co-conspirators.”

While he was appreciated by writers, Mr. Hills was also valued by Simon &amp; Schuster management, and not just for his editing skills; he routinely saved the company money on author advances. (Sensitive writers should skip the next sentence.)

“He is legendary,” one manager wrote in tribute in announcing Mr. Hills’s retirement, “for his exceptionally canny negotiating.”

Frederic Wheeler Hills Jr. was born on Nov. 26, 1934, in East Orange, N.J., and may have been destined for the literary life at birth: He was delivered by William Carlos Williams, the pediatrician-cum-poet. His father, Frederic Wheeler Hills, was an engineer, and his mother, Mildred Chambers (Hood) Hills, was a homemaker.

Mr. Hills won a scholarship to Columbia College, where his mentors included the literary critics Mark Van Doren and Lionel Trilling. He earned a bachelor’s degree in English in 1956, then went west to Stanford, where he studied with the writer Wallace Stegner and earned his master’s in English in 1958. After Stanford, he joined the Army and was stationed at Ford Ord, Calif.

His publishing career began with his work on college textbooks at McGraw Hill, where he soon became editor in chief of the college textbook division. Then, two explosive scandals rocked the company: the fake autobiography of the billionaire recluse Howard Hughes written by Clifford Irving, and the discovery that a top editor had taken money from two authors in violation of McGraw Hill policy.

In the ensuing managerial shake-up, Mr. Hills was named editor in chief of the company’s trade book division, where he served for seven years. It was there that he edited Nabokov, and the author’s death in 1977 became a turning point for him.

“After Nabokov died, I no longer felt any great inclination to hang around McGraw Hill,” Mr. Hills told the Nabokov Online Journal. “All I had to do was to walk across the street to Simon &amp; Schuster in the halls of Rockefeller Center, and they would pay me more as a senior editor than I was making at McGraw Hill to be editor in chief.”

Besides, he added, as an editor he could work one on one with authors and be rid of managerial tasks. This, he liked to say, allowed him to have “twice the lunches and half the meetings.”

He left McGraw Hill in 1979, and the next year he married Ms. Matthews, whom he had met at McGraw Hill. Mr. Hills’s previous marriage had ended in divorce.

In addition to Ms. Matthews, Mr. Hills is survived by a daughter, Christina Hills Brown; three sons, Bradford, Gregory and Frederic, known as Teddy; a brother, Stuart; and a granddaughter.

Mr. Hills was sometimes motivated by his personal interests when deciding what books to acquire. Hence he published one on sailing, one of his favorite hobbies, and another on home repair while overseeing construction of a house on Shelter Island, N.Y., where he spent every summer for 35 years.

And tucked into his bookshelf at home, its dust jacket torn and yellowed, was that first copy of “Lolita” that he had bought in 1958. He kept it his entire life.





No.10 article:
America’s Internet Has China Envy

But is China a peek at the future of technology, or a digital island all its own?

This article is part of the On Tech newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it weekdays.

One of the big questions about the future of the internet is whether the world’s digital habits will eventually look like China’s.

For some time, fresh digital trends — both dystopian and useful ones — have gotten started and become big in China. The country was one of the first places where digital payments and loans on smartphones transformed finance, online video streamers became superstars, food delivery apps swept cities, and online misinformation eroded people’s faith in facts.

In the United States and some other countries, technology watchers have tried to borrow from some of China’s internet habits in the belief that they’re a preview of the future everywhere.

The nagging question, though, is whether borrowing from China’s digital world can work. Is China a peek at the future of technology, or a digital island all its own?

Around the world, there are echoes of Chinese internet trends. Ideas that originated in China inspired virtual tip jars in Twitch and YouTube to compensate live streamers, the person-to-person payments in iMessage and Square’s Cash App, and apps that make your selfies look better. Companies in Southeast Asia are borrowing tactics from the all-in-one “super apps” popular in China.

Right now one of the big ideas from China that makes technologists excited is a blending of e-commerce and web entertainment. In China, QVC-like shopping webcasts, short videos and social media are becoming important ways people both learn about products and buy them instantly from live video feeds.

Dreams of doing something similar outside of China may have motivated Walmart to join a group trying to buy part of the Chinese-owned app TikTok. (That deal remains up in the air.)

You can also see hopes in the food delivery industry for something like Meituan, one of China’s leading food delivery apps whose approach is so unique it may not work in most other countries.

This envy or copycatting of Chinese tech ideas is happening even as there are growing rifts between China and the United States over policy and technology.

It hasn’t always worked. For every app like TikTok, which started with a popular trend in China that went global, there is a string of failures. Companies have tried and mostly failed so far to bring Chinese-style fleets of rental bicycles to the rest of the world. Just about every messaging app in the world aspires to be a do-everything app like China’s WeChat, and almost none are. The ubiquitous digital payments in China may not catch on in many other places, as my colleague Raymond Zhong has discussed.

And while I’ve heard a lot of magical thinking that restaurant delivery services can get huge in America, as they are in China, it’s unlikely. The United States and Europe generally lack the conditions that make food delivery (possibly) viable in China: dense megacities, low labor costs and the prevalence of all-in-one apps like Meituan that funnel people from delivery to more profitable services like travel booking.

These examples suggest it isn’t a given that China’s digital habits can catch on everywhere else. Even China’s tech stars haven’t had much success taking their biggest ideas outside their home countries — with a few exceptions, including TikTok’s owner, ByteDance, and video games from the WeChat owner Tencent.

Digital trends are constantly in flux both in China and the rest of the world. How much behavior winds up similar to China’s or divergent is one of the open questions about our tech future.

Brian X. Chen, a consumer technology columnist for The New York Times, has advice for shopping for televisions this time of year, when retailers advertise sales on electronics that may not actually be good deals:

The typical Black Friday sales started earlier than usual this year. If you’re looking to buy a new TV set, this can be the best or worst time to do so — depending on how you approach it.

First, know that you can get a substantial discount on a TV this time of year. Retailers are trying to clear inventory to make room for new models coming next year.

But when a deal sounds too good to be true, there’s probably a catch. To get our attention, retailers like Best Buy and Amazon advertise unbelievable deals for big-screen TVs that cost as little as $100.

Unfortunately, the so-called doorbuster deals are often on sets that are subpar. Sometimes, retailers sell televisions with model numbers that are nearly identical to popular, high-quality sets just to bait you.

What’s a savvy shopper to do? My best advice is to prepare. Read reviews on the best TV sets for your budget and living situation, jot down the model numbers and keep an eye on their prices.

A good place to start is the guide to best TVs from Wirecutter, the product recommendation website owned by The Times. Wirecutter’s deals page also gives daily updates on the best discounts on the web. You can also use the price-tracking tool Camel Camel Camel to track prices online for the TV set you have your eye on.

Wirecutter’s Elissa Sanci also has more tips on what products are worthwhile to buy — and what to avoid — around Black Friday.

Would you like to see videos of baby sloths?! (Yes, yes, you would.)

We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think of this newsletter and what else you’d like us to explore. You can reach us at ontech@nytimes.com. 

If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, please sign up here.





No.11 article:
They Welcomed Dozens for Thanksgiving. Now What?

For decades, a couple have been the unofficial parents for many Black students at Notre Dame. This year, that family is scattered, reflecting on the year’s crises.

GRANGER, Ind. — Dr. Jan Sanders was the first Black pediatrician to have her own practice here. Her husband, Leo McWilliams, is an assistant dean in the University of Notre Dame engineering department and a “quadruple Domer,” a title bestowed on the rare graduate with four degrees from the school.

But what’s truly impressive is the amount of food they cook for Thanksgiving.

One turkey comes off Leo’s grill, and another out of a smoker. He’s from Memphis, so there are ribs, chicken and brisket, too. Jan makes at least four styles of dressing, and simmers 35 bunches of turnip and mustard greens. She builds pans of macaroni and cheese, and bakes her mother’s brown sugar poundcake. Their sons, Cheyney, 28, and Quinlan, 25, boil pounds of sweet potatoes to make the pies.

Ever since the sons were in elementary school, the couple have hosted Thanksgiving in their cozy two-story house on a cul-de-sac in this suburb of South Bend. The guest list has included almost every lonely Black freshman enrolled at Notre Dame, a school where only about 3 percent of the 8,600 or so undergraduates are African-American.

There are Dreamers, too, those young adult immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children. International students show up, along with scholarship kids from small towns who need to be convinced that they really do belong at an elite university.

“We try to give them a space to vent things they perhaps couldn’t vent in other spaces, and to get a friendly ear and friendly advice,” Leo said.

More than 60 people packed into the house last year to share nearly 50 dishes, each of which Jan documented in a handwritten list. But this year, the house will be mostly empty, save for the immediate family. The menu is down to 12 dishes and dessert.

Social scientists use the term collective effervescence to describe the heightened sense of belonging and well-being that comes with a shared ritual. It’s what makes going to a concert or a baseball game feel so good. The spirit of the group is bigger than what anyone could experience individually. It’s one of the building blocks of culture.

Kelly Alexander, a food studies professor at the University of North Carolina, wrote about collective effervescence in her doctoral dissertation. She and other anthropologists are taking note of what happens when a nation is deprived of in-person gathering on Thanksgiving.

“Is the one year we have to sit it out that big of a deal?” she asked. “Maybe not. But we have to acknowledge it, because it will have an effect.”

For the kindred souls who have come to rely on Thanksgiving at Jan and Leo’s, the void will be particularly gaping. Most will be left to celebrate alone or in small groups, contemplating a year that delivered a series of national crises that hit them particularly hard: the killings of Black people at the hands of police officers and the resulting uproar over systemic racism; the coronavirus, which is still raging through communities of color at disproportionate rates; the bruised economy; the exhausting election and its aftermath.

“If there was ever a year when we needed to all be together, this is it,” said Richard G. Jones, the director of the Gallivan Journalism Program at Notre Dame and a former New York Times editor who usually gets extra helpings of Leo’s smoked salmon every Thanksgiving.

Shaquille Johnson, 25, could have really used a Thanksgiving meal at Jan and Leo’s, too. After graduating from Notre Dame, he landed a job as a software engineer for Google. When Covid-19 closed the company’s California campus, he and other young tech workers who could work from anywhere left the Bay Area in search of cheaper rent or a change of scenery.

Now he is in Austin, Texas, but most of his family is in Chicago. His grandmother is a health aide whose hours have been drastically cut, so he sends her money. He worries about his uncle, who lost so much business in the pandemic that he had to close his chicken-and-burger restaurant in Chicago. His aunt folded her halal food business in Wisconsin for the same reasons.

“It’s tough times, and it sucks,” Mr. Johnson said.

This Thanksgiving he’ll probably make his way to Chicago, but his heart will be at Jan and Leo’s, where he met some of his best friends and found a family who understood how it felt when white students told him he was the first Black person they’d ever met, or asked if it was all right to use the N-word.

“It was the one time you could get together and know for sure there wouldn’t be any racism there,” he said. “You could relax.”

The scene was the same every year. All the young people would crowd into the basement to play Jenga or Mario Kart before heading upstairs to share a meal with Jan and Leo’s neighbors and family friends. Once dessert was over and at least some of the dishes had been washed, everyone jumped in line to do the Cupid Shuffle or the Wobble, with Jan leading the way.

Deborah Bineza could really use a party like that this year. She graduated in 2019, and works as a program coordinator at the university’s gender relations center. She feels lucky to be employed. Many of her friends have lost their jobs because of the pandemic.

She fell into Jan and Leo’s orbit when she was a freshman, and met their son Quinlan at an interfaith choir practice. She didn’t have the money to go home to Nashville for Thanksgiving, and figured she would spend the holiday on campus, alone. Then Quinlan invited her to his parents’.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

Ms. Bineza was a vegetarian at the time, and just like the Muslim Thanksgiving guests who don’t eat pork, she found plenty of dishes prepared with people like her in mind. Jan and Leo quickly became her champions, meeting with her and other students at a Starbucks every Sunday to talk over life and solve problems.

“They made that space where you can go be around other Black people and not have to explain what is going on or how you are feeling, and just be able to experience joy,” she said. “It’s difficult to not have that this year.”

Instead, she’ll check in with her family online — her parents had mild cases of Covid over the summer — but stay in South Bend for a small dinner with her partner and her roommate.

Michael Sills, 25, and his brother, Wiett Sills, 23, who are white, found a different kind of solace at those Thanksgiving gatherings. They came to Notre Dame from San Diego, but had to think twice before spending money on a plane ticket home for the holiday. They were homesick, and feeling for the first time in their lives what it meant to not be as wealthy as others.

“I never realized other people had yachts and went on skiing trips on the weekend until I went to Notre Dame,” Michael said.

They became regulars at Jan and Leo’s, bringing their grandmother’s banana pudding and leaving with pans of macaroni and cheese that Jan made especially for them.

Thanksgiving at the couple’s house would have been a nice reprieve this year, Michael said. He is in South Bend, trying to start his own banking analytics business, but it’s slow going. Like many young people, he is struggling with his mental health during the pandemic.

He hasn’t seen his family since February. The brothers hope to get to San Diego if everyone can agree on Covid protocols.

“I’m just trying to breathe,” he said.

The Notre Dame gathering isn’t just for students. Jan and Leo have collected plenty of older adults along the way.

There is the retired schoolteacher from Chicago who is such a regular that she keeps a nightgown in a drawer in the guest room, and the fellow professors who offer Jewish blessings before dinner. There are the neighbors who always lent them oven space, and came over until they moved to Colorado. The mother of one son’s girlfriend came even after they broke up.

“Our gatherings are not just for food,” Jan said. “It’s for community and for closeness.”

Jan and Leo have been married for 35 years, and are very clear about how and why they built this Thanksgiving tradition.

Their parents set the example, and their life experiences showed them how much a little help can mean. Their faith — they are members of Mount Carmel Missionary Baptist Church in South Bend — amplifies their desire to help people. And Leo remembers when he was a freshman and spent Thanksgiving alone on campus.

“It’s in our DNA,” he said.

This year, the house will be quiet. Except for a few athletes, the students will have left campus by Thanksgiving and won’t be back until February. The virus will keep everyone else away.

So Jan and Leo will be left with their immediate family. They’ll pick up Jan’s 88-year-old mother, who lives 10 minutes away. Cheyney, a medical student at Indiana University School of Medicine who had a mild case of Covid this fall, lives on his own in South Bend. Quinlan graduated from Notre Dame and is now a software engineer for Target.

He’ll drive in from Minneapolis, where the pain over George Floyd’s death in May, and the protests that followed, struck deep.

“I don’t think I realized how much it affected me until maybe September,” he said. “The last thing I needed to see, or any of us needed to see, was another Black person being killed by police. You end up asking yourself, how much more can I take?”

So they will cook. And cook. Leo will grill a turkey and smoke a side of salmon. Jan’s list of side dishes has already grown. The boys will make pies. There will be poundcake.

“We can’t help ourselves,” Jan said. “We just don’t know how to cook for four.”

And they don’t know how not to feed other people. They’ve stocked the storage cupboard in the basement with disposable containers, and they’ve made a list of people they plan to deliver Thanksgiving dinner to.

First up will be Isabel Jakab, who came to the United States in 1980 to escape the civil war in El Salvador and ended up teaching Spanish at Notre Dame for 25 years. She is 79, and started going to Jan and Leo’s for Thanksgiving after her husband died nine years ago. She hasn’t visited friends or even ventured out to grocery shop since the pandemic hit in March. Even having workers come to the house for repairs makes her nervous.

Virginia Montero-Smith, 57, is on the list, too. She has spent 15 Thanksgivings with the family. Ms. Montero-Smith is from Venezuela, and began tutoring the boys in Spanish before they were in first grade. She and the family became so close that after she divorced, she lived in their basement until she could get back on her feet.

Normally, she is in charge of carving the turkey. But not this year.

“If you have Jan and Leo as friends, you don’t need anybody else,” she said. “They are like sunshine.”

Most likely, the list of people the couple feeds this Thanksgiving will grow right up until Thanksgiving morning. It’s a good bet that there will be some new names on it. “We are always collecting people,” Jan said.

Next year, if it’s safe to gather, they can show up at Jan and Leo’s, make a plate and become a kindred soul, too.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.12 article:
This Thanksgiving, It’s Time to Stop Nap-Shaming

In 2020, officeless workers learned to doze off between Zoom calls. Maybe now we can admit that the post-turkey crash is nothing to be ashamed of.

Like many Americans, the chef Nicole Pederson enjoys stretching out on the couch after the turkey and stuffing have been cleared, closing her eyes and losing consciousness for a short time. But 2012 was when she proved she was no ordinary Thanksgiving napper.

She had opened a new restaurant that fall in Evanston, Ill. By Thanksgiving Day, when she showed up at the house of a friend who was going to cook an elaborate, multicourse Caribbean-inspired menu, the long hours had caught up with her.

She took her first nap of the day before noon, shortly after downing a glass of Champagne. She returned to the couch after the appetizer, a squash-and-cheese empanada, and was awakened in time to eat the hearts-of-palm salad. From that point on, she said, “I think I slept between every course.”

Ms. Pederson has never equaled the daring structure and heroic commitment of her serialized nap of 2012, but her friends nevertheless expect her to make at least some effort each November. “They feel like it wasn’t Thanksgiving if they haven’t seen me pass out on the couch somewhere,” she said.

As Ms. Pederson’s friends understand, a great Thanksgiving Day nap can be an inspiration. For some reason, though, journalism on the subject tends to be written as if curling up on the nearest piece of upholstery were a criminal activity.

Some newspaper and magazine accounts of Thanksgiving naps use language more typically found in court reporting and police-blotter items. A 2014 article in The Washington Post noted that while some people had attempted to “blame the turkey” for the grogginess we feel after Thanksgiving dinner, the sides and desserts had been revealed as “the real culprits.” Men’s Journal concurred, reporting that “the bird may not be guilty after all.”

Other writers borrow from medical literature, identifying the relaxed condition caused by drumsticks and gravy as a “food coma.” In this metaphor, the fault is not the meal’s. It is ours, for eating so greedily that we succumb to a self-inflicted, though temporary, brain injury.

One may well wonder how a quick swoon on the sofa became so fraught. We find it adorable that cats, dogs and babies take a short afternoon snooze, but when adults do it one day a year, something must be wrong.

Instead of asking how to prevent naps, why aren’t there more articles giving advice on the best ways to induce one? After all, a napping Thanksgiving guest is a guest who isn’t insulting a family member’s romantic choices, or spouting political beliefs so retrograde they would have shocked George Wallace, or doing any number of other things people don’t do when they’re unconscious.

The subtle shaming of Thanksgiving nappers comes as no surprise to sleep experts. Sara E. Alger, a sleep scientist at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Silver Spring, Md., has been a public advocate for naps, particularly in the workplace, except in cases of insomnia. Along the way, she has had to fight anti-nap prejudice.

“Naps in general have a stigma attached to them as something you only do when you’re lazy or when you’re sick,” Dr. Alger said.

Wrapped inside nap phobia in the United States is often a message reminding us to be productive during what we now think of as normal working hours, although that concept is relatively new.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

Modern attitudes about napping go back to the Industrial Revolution, according to Matthew J. Wolf-Meyer, an anthropologist at Binghamton University in New York and the author of “The Slumbering Masses: Sleep, Medicine, and Modern American Life.”

“For a long time, people had flexible sleep schedules,” Dr. Wolf-Meyer said. Farmers and tradespeople had some autonomy over their time. They could choose to rest in the hottest part of the day, and might take up simple tasks during a wakeful period in the middle of the night, between two distinct bouts of sleep.

As the 1800s went on, more and more Americans worked in factories on set shifts that were supervised by a foreman. “They work for a total stranger, and a nap becomes totally nonnegotiable,” he said.

Staying awake all day and getting one’s sleep in a single long stretch at night came to be seen as normal. With that came a strong societal expectation that we ought to use our daylight hours productively.

“Even on a holiday, we’re not exempt from those expectations about productivism,” Dr. Wolf-Meyer said. “Even on Thanksgiving. You’re supposed to be doing something, even if it’s watching TV. Our labor on holidays is to interact with our relatives. So the nap is kind of a problem.”

Whether we will have any relatives in the room to interact with this Thanksgiving is another question. Americans are being warned that if they make the trip over the river and through the woods to Grandmother’s house, Grandmother might not make it to Christmas.

To allow families to gather together even though they are gathering separately, Zoom will lift its 40-minute limit for free calls on Thanksgiving. This will allow people to schedule their naps around the video conference, a skill many of them began learning after work-from-home orders came down this spring.

Although there are no hard data so far on whether naps have been on the rise during 2020, sleep scientists like Dr. Alger think it’s likely. The many people who now work remotely no longer need to worry about the disapproving eyes of their colleagues if they want a brief, discreet period of horizontality in the afternoons.

If most offices reopen next year, as now seems possible, perhaps greater tolerance toward the adult nap will be one of the things salvaged from the smoking wreckage of the working-from-home era. (In a tweet last week, Dr. Wolf-Meyer called the pandemic “the largest (accidental) experiment with human #sleep ever conducted.”) In any case, this would be a good year to destigmatize the Thanksgiving nap.

Experts say that people who get seven to nine hours of sleep a day are less prone to catching infectious diseases, and better at fighting off any they do catch. Afternoon sleep counts toward your daily total, according to Dr. Alger.

This immunity boost, she said, is in addition to other well-known dividends of a good nap, like added energy, increased alertness, improved mood and better emotional regulation.

Included under the last rubric is a skill that seems especially useful for dealing with families, even if you never get closer to your relatives this year than a “Hollywood Squares”-style video grid: “Napping helps you be more sensitive to receiving other people’s moods,” Dr. Alger said. “So you’re not perceiving other people as being more negative than they are.”

Napping also helps you remember facts you learned right before nodding off. Given the way things have been going lately, of course, you may not see this as a plus. You could look at it from the reverse angle, though: Every hour before Jan. 1 that you spend napping is another hour of 2020 you won’t remember.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.13 article:
$15,000 Fine After Secret Hasidic Wedding Draws Thousands of Guests

“This was amazingly irresponsible,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said of the event in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.

Thousands of ultra-Orthodox Jews gathered to celebrate a wedding inside a cavernous hall in Brooklyn’s Williamsburg neighborhood earlier this month, dancing and singing with hardly a mask in sight. The wedding was meticulously planned, and so were efforts to conceal it from the authorities, who said that the organizers would be fined $15,000 for violating public health restrictions.

The wedding, organized on Nov. 8 by the leaders of the Satmar sect of Hasidic Judaism, is the latest incident in a long battle between city and state officials and members of the ultra-Orthodox community, who prize autonomy, chafe at government restrictions and have frequently flouted guidelines like mask-wearing and social distancing.

In October, state officials announced a series of restrictions in several neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens with large Orthodox Jewish populations after the positive test rate in those areas rose above 4 percent. Many residents protested the restrictions, which included the closing of nonessential businesses and limiting capacity at houses of worship.

While the rates in several of these areas have decreased since the implementation of the restrictions, tensions between city officials and area leaders have continued.

Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the fine on Monday night after video of the wedding — and a florid account of the event and the extensive efforts to conceal it appeared in a Hasidic newspaper — drew backlash online. He said additional penalties could be imposed on the organizers.

“We know there was a wedding,” the mayor told the local news network NY1. “We know it was too big. I don’t have an exact figure, but whatever it was, it was too big. There appeared to be a real effort to conceal it. Which is absolutely unacceptable.”

Representatives for the Satmar community did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.

“We’ve been through so much,” the mayor added. “And in fact, the Williamsburg community in recent weeks responded very positively, did a lot more testing and was being very responsible. This was amazingly irresponsible, just unacceptable. So there’s going to be consequences right away for the people who let that happen.”

On Sunday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo called the event “a blatant disregard of the law” and “disrespectful to the people of New York.”

State officials ordered the Satmar community in Orange County to cancel a series of weddings planned for Monday night, but it was unclear if the group complied with that order.

The wedding in Brooklyn, which lasted for more than four hours, was held at the Yetev Lev D’Satmar synagogue in Williamsburg and celebrated the marriage of Rabbi Joel Teitelbaum, the grandson of Satmar Grand Rabbi Aaron Teitelbaum. The bride’s name could not be determined.

Last month, Satmar leaders canceled another wedding in Williamsburg, which they said expected 10,000 guests, that was to be held for the grandson of Rabbi Teitelbaum’s brother and longtime rival, Grand Rabbi Zalman Teitelbaum.

An account of the wedding was published on Nov. 11 by Der Blatt, a Yiddish-language newspaper closely aligned with the Satmar leadership in Williamsburg. The New York Post then published a story about the wedding on Saturday, citing Der Blatt and videos that it obtained of the event.

Der Blatt described the wedding as “an experience for which words do not suffice” and “a celebration the likes of which we have rarely had the good fortune to experience,” according to a translation provided by Hasidic activists.

The newspaper also said it knew about the wedding in advance but had participated in an elaborate scheme to hide the event “so as not to attract an evil eye from the ravenous press and government officials, who have in the past exploited the present situation to disrupt already-planned simchas,” a Hebrew word for a joyful event.

“All notices about upcoming celebrations were passed along through word of mouth, with no notices in writing, no posters on the synagogue walls, no invitations sent through the mail, nor even a report in any publication, including this very newspaper,” it wrote.

The Hasidic community in New York City has been gripped with tension in recent months over restrictions meant to combat the coronavirus pandemic, which has left few families in many of these insular neighborhoods untouched by sickness and death.

A range of factors have led to the pandemic’s heavy toll in the community, experts say, including unsuccessful government outreach, widespread misinformation over herd immunity and the effectiveness of masks, what the city has described as the insufficient quality of education in subjects like science and a longstanding wariness of outsiders that has grown out of a history of religious oppression.

Those tensions spilled onto the street last month when violent protests erupted in Brooklyn over new health restrictions. Face masks were burned in the street and a Hasidic mob attacked three Jewish men, including two Hasidic Jews accused of disloyalty to the community.

Those tensions, and a fear of turncoats, were alluded to darkly in the Satmar newspaper’s account of the wedding.

“Despite having organized this simcha with minimal public notice, the days leading up to the wedding were nonetheless filled with tension,” it said, “not knowing what the next day, or the next moment, will bring, which disgruntled outcast might seize this opportunity to exploit even what hasn’t been written or publicized, to create an unnecessary uproar, and to disrupt the simcha, God forbid.”





No.14 article:
After Trump, Biden Faces Pressure to Stand Up to China by Embracing Taiwan

In his final days in office, President Trump is trying to undermine Beijing by showing support for Taiwan. President-elect Biden will likely follow a similar path — without the pugnacity.

TAIPEI, Taiwan — President Trump has made cultivating closer ties with Taiwan a critical part of his efforts to counter China’s rising influence. He has significantly increased weapons sales to Taiwan’s military, vowed to step up economic cooperation, and generally bolstered relations with the self-ruled democratic island — even in his waning days.

His successor, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., will most likely continue on a similar path, albeit without Mr. Trump’s characteristic pugnacity.

As concerns grow about China’s increasingly aggressive behavior on the global stage, Mr. Biden will face pressure from Democrats and Republicans to strengthen ties with Taiwan, which Beijing considers part of its territory.

While Mr. Biden said little about Taiwan on the campaign trail, he has said the United States should get “tough with China” and described its top leader, Xi Jinping, as a “thug.” His transition team has already reached out to Taiwanese officials.

“If China continues to put military and economic pressure on Taiwan, Biden will have to demonstrate he will not sit by while China bullies Taiwan,” said Bonnie S. Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.

His approach, though, is expected to be less confrontational than his predecessor’s. “I don’t think Biden is looking to use Taiwan to poke Xi Jinping in the eye and make him look weak,” Ms. Glaser added. “There won’t be a deliberate effort to make Taiwan a point of friction.”

With less than two months left in his term, Mr. Trump is working to leave a legacy of severed ties between the United States and China, including a series of last-minute actions focused on Taiwan.

The American government last week held economic talks in Washington with officials from Taiwan, drawing a rebuke from Beijing. Mr. Trump has dispatched several high-profile officials to visit Taiwan recently, rankling the Chinese government. The leader of the Environmental Protection Agency, Andrew Wheeler, was scheduled to hold meetings in Taipei next month, but his trip has been canceled, officials said on Tuesday. The visit came under scrutiny amid questions about the cost to taxpayers.

Mr. Trump has attracted a loyal following in Taiwan because of his administration’s criticism of the Chinese Communist Party on issues such as trade, the coronavirus and the crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong. He has garnered praise in Taiwan for moving swiftly to approve weapons sales, including more than $4 billion worth last month. He is also widely lauded for his decision, as president-elect in 2016, to take a telephone call from President Tsai Ing-wen of Taiwan, breaking with decades of diplomatic practice.

“Trump’s actions have been very solid,” said Tsai Yi-yu, a lawmaker from southern Taiwan. Mr. Tsai has fervently supported the president, going so far as to wear a “Keep America Great” face mask to meetings with Taiwan’s leaders.

“Maintaining Trump’s Taiwan policies will be best for Taiwan,” he said, citing Mr. Trump’s support for weapons sales.

In Taiwan, Mr. Biden’s ascent has been greeted with some anxiety, especially in the ruling party, the Democratic Progressive Party, which is critical of China.

Many politicians and activists in Taiwan have grown increasingly concerned in recent years by Mr. Xi’s creeping authoritarianism. They have called on world leaders to more forcefully push back against efforts by Beijing to bring the island under its control, and to treat Taiwan as an equal.

Mr. Biden is seen in Taiwan as more risk averse. He is best known for his time as vice president under President Barack Obama, who has been criticized in Taiwan for not doing enough to stand up to Mr. Xi. As a senator, Mr. Biden helped bring China into international groups like the World Trade Organization, which gave the country an edge as it sought to expand its economy and exert influence in the global system.

Mr. Biden has resisted the idea that he would give in to pressure from Beijing. As evidence of Mr. Biden’s commitment to Taiwan, his advisers have cited his support as a senator for the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, which obligates Washington to provide weapons to Taiwan. More recently, he has signaled his support for Taiwan in other ways, having his choice for secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, for example, speak this month with Taiwan’s de facto ambassador to the United States.

“He will continue to support a peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues consistent with the wishes and best interests of the people of Taiwan,” an official with Mr. Biden’s transition team said in a statement. “He has long said that American support for Taiwan must remain strong, principled and bipartisan.”

Some politicians in Taiwan, including members of the opposition party, the Kuomintang, believe Mr. Biden’s more restrained approach could help ease tensions and prevent a military conflict between the United States and China.

“He is neither a reckless politician nor a person who wants to achieve something remarkable in a short period of time,” said Cheng Li-wun, a Kuomintang lawmaker.

Despite Mr. Biden’s calls for greater cooperation, China’s leaders are wary about his leadership. They worry that he will try to unite American allies in Europe and Asia to thwart Beijing’s global agenda, according to analysts in the mainland, and that he will continue to seek closer ties with Taiwan.

“The basic Taiwan policies, even during Biden’s term, won’t see any upending changes,” said Xin Qiang, a scholar who studies U.S.-China relations and Taiwan at Fudan University in Shanghai. “With regard to both strategy and tactics, the mainland has concerns about both Biden and Trump.”

Chinese officials often accuse the United States of encouraging Taiwan to seek full independence, a move that Mr. Xi has repeatedly warned could be met by armed force. A rising sense of nationalism in China has fueled concerns that the mainland could react harshly if tensions escalated.

“I fear that one day the mainland will be forced to take actions because of the Taiwan issue that would cause a crisis or even a military conflict between China and the United States,” Professor Xin said.

During his final weeks in office, Mr. Trump and his advisers appear to be intent on testing China’s limits on Taiwan.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has escalated his taunting of Beijing, saying during a recent interview that Taiwan was not a part of China. His remarks drew a furious response from Chinese officials, who said Taiwan was an inalienable part of China, denounced Mr. Pompeo and vowed to retaliate.

Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, is currently leading a visit to the region as part of an effort to reassure American allies, after Beijing this month signed a trade agreement with 14 countries in the region, a move seen as a check to American power in the region. Mr. O’Brien said in Manila on Monday that the United States would continue to support Taiwan and would not cede its status as a Pacific power to China.

“We’re going to fight for a free and open Indo-Pacific region with all of our partners,” Mr. O’Brien said in a conference call with reporters.

When he takes office in January, Mr. Biden will face growing frictions and also tough policy choices, including questions about arms sales and economic investment. Taiwan has long pressed American officials to sign a bilateral trade treaty, an idea that Beijing opposes. President Tsai lifted a longstanding ban on American pork and beef imports in August, a decision seen as an attempt to open the door to formal trade talks.

As the pandemic rages, Taiwan is also seeking to take part in international groups like the World Health Assembly, the decision-making body of the World Health Organization, despite objections from China.

Many Taiwan residents say the island can maintain its legitimacy on the global stage and deter an invasion by the mainland only with strong support from Mr. Biden.

“Taiwan can’t face the might of China alone,” said You Ying-long, a former politician for the governing Democratic Progressive Party. “We can’t fight China on our own.”





No.15 article:
Pat Quinn, Who Promoted A.L.S. Ice Bucket Challenge, Dies at 37

Mr. Quinn, who learned he had A.L.S. after turning 30, was credited with helping to make the ice-bucket videos a viral sensation that raised $220 million.

Pat Quinn, who helped raise $220 million to fight amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., by promoting the Ice Bucket Challenge in 2014, died on Sunday in Yonkers, N.Y., seven years after he learned he had the disease. He was 37.

His death, at St. John’s Riverside Hospital, was confirmed by the A.L.S. Association and in a post on his official Facebook page.

Mr. Quinn did not create the challenge, in which people dumped buckets of ice water on their heads while pledging to donate money to fight A.L.S. But he and his friend Pete Frates, who also had A.L.S., are credited with amplifying it and helping to make it a sensation in the summer and fall of 2014, raising tens of millions of dollars for research and, perhaps nearly as important, wider awareness of the disease.

“Pat changed the trajectory of the fight against A.L.S. forever,” Calaneet Balas, the president and chief executive of the A.L.S. Association, said in a statement on Sunday. “He inspired millions to get involved and care about people who are living with A.L.S.”

A.L.S., also called Lou Gehrig’s disease, is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that attacks the nerve cells that control voluntary muscle movements and leads to full paralysis. People with the disease typically live three to five years from the time of diagnosis, according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.

Shortly after Mr. Quinn learned he had A.L.S. in 2013, he created Quinn for the Win, a Facebook group, to raise awareness of the disease and to raise money to fight for a cure. Mr. Frates created his own page, Team Frate Train, with the same goal.

In July 2014, Mr. Quinn and Mr. Frates saw another A.L.S. patient, Anthony Senerchia, do the Ice Bucket Challenge online. They created their own ice-bucket videos and shared the challenge with their followers. (Mr. Frates died last year at 34.)

From there, the campaign spread wildly, with Lady Gaga, Oprah Winfrey, LeBron James and scores of other celebrities participating and donating to the cause. The challenge raised $115 million for the A.L.S. Association and $220 million around the world for A.L.S. research in the span of just six weeks, the A.L.S. Association said.

Mr. Quinn’s efforts “dramatically accelerated the effort to end A.L.S., leading to new research discoveries, expanded care for people living with A.L.S., and greater investment by the government in A.L.S. research,” Ms. Balas said.

In a 2015 interview for Talks at Google in Manhattan, Mr. Quinn was asked if he had a favorite celebrity Ice Bucket Challenge video. He noted that Mr. James, Bill Gates and Leonardo DiCaprio had each done one, but declined to single one out.

“It’s not worth getting picky,” he said, “because every challenge, no matter how big or small, was doing what we originally set out to do, which was create awareness, and the money coming in was just completely unexpected.”

Patrick Ryan Quinn was born on Feb. 10, 1983, in Yonkers to Rosemary Quinn and Patrick Quinn Sr. He attended Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., where he was on the rugby team.

He received his A.L.S. diagnosis in March 2013, a month after his 30th birthday, according to the A.L.S. Association.

He is survived by his parents; a brother, Dan; and a half brother, Scott, according to the association. His marriage to Jennifer Flynn ended in divorce.

After the challenge, Mr. Quinn continued to speak out about the fight for a cure and conducted the challenge every August in his hometown in an event called “Every August Until a Cure.”

Mr. Quinn lost his voice in 2017. The next year, a company called Project Revoice used the interviews and speeches he had given to promote the Ice Bucket Challenge to create a “voice bank” of his recorded speech. The innovation allowed him to communicate with a digital approximation of his own voice using existing eye-gaze technology.

Speaking to an audience in Boston last year for the fifth anniversary of the challenge, Mr. Quinn said the campaign “connected with a sweet left hook to the jaw of A.L.S. and shook the disease up, but by no means is this fight over.”





No.16 article:
Melissa McCarthy and Ben Falcone on ‘Superintelligence’ and Living Comedy

The couple find themselves collaborating at the dinner table or over breakfast on projects like their new HBO Max movie.

Years ago, Ben Falcone and Melissa McCarthy started writing a script that he hoped would illuminate her comic abilities.

Then Paul Feig’s “Bridesmaids” (2011) happened and McCarthy, as the most, ahem, offbeat of the title characters, pretty much stole the show, abetted by Falcone’s character, Air Marshal Jon, and some massive meat and cheeses sandwiches. Leaving us to speculate about their real-life marriage.

McCarthy’s triumph opened doors, and “Tammy,” their long-gestating script, was made. So were three more collaborations — she the star, he the director of “The Boss,” “Life of the Party” and now “Superintelligence,” debuting Thursday on HBO Max.

This time, McCarthy plays Carol Peters, the most average person on Earth as determined by an artificial intelligence (voiced by James Corden) that is pondering whether to save, enslave or destroy humanity. In three days. No pressure: The A.I.’s decision — and the world’s fate — depends largely on whether Carol has the courage to go after George (Bobby Cannavale), the one who got away.

When the film’s screenwriter, Steve Mallory, who also co-wrote “The Boss” with them, brought up the idea, Falcone called dibs. McCarthy had her own request. The lead was originally written as a man. “Can we change it and can it be for me?” she asked. “Because I’m all in on it.”

These days McCarthy and Falcone, and their daughters, Vivian, 13, and Georgette, 10, are living out the pandemic in beachy Byron Bay, Australia. Why Australia? In a video interview, the couple — cheerfully bantering like the school parents everyone wants as best friends — discussed that, as well as their creative partnership, the dark art of comedy and keeping their family together. These are edited excerpts from our conversation.

How much does family figure into your career choices?

MELISSA McCARTHY The carnival moves as one. Where we can do that, we pack up the tent and we all go together, and that’s usually what presents itself as the winning solution.

Australia, for instance?

BEN FALCONE We had just finished a superhero movie called “Thunder Force.” We had just come home and we promised our kids, “That’s it.” And then Covid hit.

McCARTHY: Then I got a call saying, “Would you consider going to Australia to shoot ‘Nine Perfect Strangers?’” [That series is based on the novel by Liane Moriarty and also stars Nicole Kidman.] And I said, “I can’t move my family across the globe.” We were both like: “This is madness. This is impossible to do.” And our oldest daughter came out for lunch from her Zoom class, and without a second’s hesitation she said, “We should leave today.”

Now that you’re half a world from home, how have you been entertaining yourselves?

FALCONE [Elizabeth] Banks sent me just the weirdest text. And everything about this text said, Pandemic —

McCARTHY Isolation.

FALCONE And there was only one word: “Margarita?” So we started a Zoom with Liz and [her husband, Max Handelman]. Then a bunch more friends came in.

McCARTHY Then Ben said, “I’m going to watch a different Academy Award-winning movie every week.” And then everybody else said, “I’m going to do that too.” For “Lawrence of Arabia,” Steve Mallory showed up fully dressed in costume. And one by one, everyone left the Zoom and came back, and it’s sheets, towels, Saran Wrap, just bits and bobs at the house. Now we’re on — what week is this?

FALCONE Our last movie was “Terms of Endearment,” which would be 1984.

McCARTHY And half of the joy is seeing who’s going to dress up as what. It’s a bunch of dingbats in full costume on Zoom, having a few cocktails —

FALCONE Talking about these great movies throughout history —

McCARTHY Trying to remember what it’s like to hang out with friends.

With your schedules, how do you find the time to conjure up stories?

McCARTHY We’re always in some state of creative process. It’s around the dinner table with the kids, it’s making breakfast in the morning. This is what we talk about, and it doesn’t feel like work to us. There’s a lot of different pots going on at the same time, and one creative venture fuels the other.

What about writing together?

McCARTHY He writes something, I write something. It’s a constant ebb and flow. I’ve always described it, if he says blue, I say green, then together we’re like: “Ooh, purple. Let’s do that.”

FALCONE To find three hours a day to write is tricky. And with “Tammy,” we would actually write in the car.

McCARTHY We didn’t have an office and the kids were so little that a lot of times we’d sit in the driveway or down the street and just write, because that was the only time we could find a quiet space. Which I’m sure looked like we were casing a place to rob.

You went all in on “Superintelligence.”

McCARTHY The combination of our dependence on technology with love and humanity — I thought Steve hit such a lovely balance.

FALCONE It read like a wonderful throwback movie, where it’s super funny and high concept, but there’s also a charm and a seriousness of content. You know, before movies were told, “You will only be this.”

McCARTHY I don’t agree with having to pick such a lane. Somewhere in the last 15 years, especially, it was like, if you’re a comedy, you are only a comedy. I think of movies like “Planes, Trains and Automobiles.” I laugh so hard, I cry so hard, it breaks me, it delights me. We want to tell more stories that are messy like life.

Melissa, you run the gamut of emotions with Brian Tyree Henry and Bobby Cannavale in “Superintelligence.” How did Ben direct that?

McCARTHY Ben and I have such a shorthand. We’ve been writing and performing together for 25 years, starting at the Groundlings Theater in L.A. And when you have that kind of trust, you know that you can try anything and you can’t really make a fool of yourself. Ben is a great keeper of the story. I still can get very locked into the minutiae of the scene itself.

The way Ben directs, it’s like yes, you want to push things to be funny or to elicit a feeling. But you have to walk that line of keeping it real, because if you break that, you can’t come back from that damage.

FALCONE We have a phrase that started on “Superintelligence,” which is, “Let’s do the one that hurts my heart.” A different version, just in case. So many times, the thing that we thought was great isn’t going to do it. The script — we really care about it, we work on it so hard, but it’s a living, breathing thing. If we feel the need to do reshoots, I don’t want it to be for some silly reason because we weren’t protecting the movie as much as we should’ve been.

So comedy can be daunting, even for you?

FALCONE There’s nothing else that proves how fallible you are as quickly as comedy. Anybody who has thought that they have the funniest thing ever to say at a party, and you’ve got it ready, and then your timing’s just a little off, and you’ve messed it up, and — it’s just so fragile.

McCARTHY It’s fragile, it’s fickle, it’s wonderful, it’s the worst. You cannot be precious. You just have to say, “I have a good idea, I think.” Give it your all. We work and we rewrite until we lock the door in the editing bay. But we don’t know until we know.

The question you’re probably asked more than any other: Who’s funnier?

[McCarthy and Falcone each point at the other]

McCARTHY He is.

FALCONE 100 percent, she’s funnier.

McCARTHY He for sure. He’s weirder.

FALCONE You’re very weird.

McCARTHY You still surprise me. You kind of know what I’m going to say. I’m a bit of a one-trick pony, but I think you don’t always know where Ben’s going to come from.

FALCONE Because neither do I.





No.17 article:
What We Like About Pandemic Shopping

This year might have forever changed shopping for American consumers, store workers and retailers.

This article is part of the On Tech newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it weekdays.

America’s upended shopping habits are a glimpse at how we’ve been altered by this pandemic-scarred year.

More of us are getting goods delivered, and we’re buying more cars, exercise equipment and ham and spending less on plane tickets and restaurant meals.

For the week that traditionally kicks off the holiday shopping season, I spoke with Sapna Maheshwari, who writes about retail for The New York Times, about how the pandemic might alter Black Friday and permanently change shopping in America.

Shira: What was the biggest surprise in our shopping habits from the pandemic?

Sapna: The drastic increase in online shopping was perhaps a predictable shift, but there are surprises when you dig into the details.

There is a whole population — older people especially, including my parents — who tried and liked things like ordering online for in-store pick up from places like Target or Panera. There are plenty of people who will go back to shopping in person, but some of those habits will stick. Where curbside grocery pickup is available, why wouldn’t you take back the hour you used to shop for groceries and instead have a store employee put together your order and put the items in your car trunk for no extra cost?

What have those shopping changes meant for retail store workers?

I started the year writing about employees of the collapsed department store Barneys New York, and they told me about the lists they kept of clients, the types of merchandise they sold and their commissions. It was a career with a high level of customer interaction.

Compare that with store workers this year assembling orders placed online. That might reduce the virus risk now, but it’s more solitary and transactional, like a warehouse job. Store workers are interacting less with customers, and some people miss that. The work may also be more physically demanding, and some employees fear they’ll be measured by how fast they can grab items off store shelves.

Do you expect delays and chaos for holiday packages?

Retailers tried to start Black Friday deals in October to help limit store crowds and spread out online holiday orders to make them manageable, but I think many people waited. It’s hard to break consumers out of something they’ve done their whole lives.

It’s hard to get retailers to talk about it, but they’re constantly negotiating with FedEx and UPS about the shippers’ holiday delivery capacity and costs. For smaller businesses, it’s going to be expensive to fulfill the shipping demands of holiday shoppers. Any problems will benefit stores that can offer online ordering for in-store pickup right up to Christmas.

Confess your pandemic purchasing habits. And what will stick?

I’ve bought almost no new apparel this year, and I’ve been wearing a small portion of items in my closet. In the future I can see myself buying fewer but nicer items of clothing and paying for tailoring because I’ve become more conscious of each garment I’m wearing.

People want to feel cozy, and slippers and candles have been big sellers this year. I have bought so many candles. For some reason my anxiety-related purchases have included paper planners, journals and a to-do checklist notebook. I’ve also bought more alcohol because I’m not going to bars. That won’t last. I’m looking forward to when it’s safe to be in a crowded bar and waiting impatiently for a stupidly expensive cocktail.

One lesson to me from the shake up in pandemic shopping is that there’s more than one way to successfully sell stuff to Americans.

Not every retailer, in short, has to be Amazon and be gigantic, sell every product imaginable and deliver orders fast to people’s homes.

Sapna and I talked about retailers whose sales have climbed during the pandemic, and it’s not always the names you might have predicted. Amazon, Walmart and Costco have done well, yes. But so have store chains like Home Depot, Dick’s Sporting Goods and Williams-Sonoma that sell stuff to make home life more pleasant and also figured out curbside pickup of online orders or ways to make in-store shopping feel safer in a pandemic.

Sapna has also written about the resilience of local stores like a running gear store in Connecticut that quickly revamped its business, including delivering purchases to people’s homes. (This is also a spot for me to remind readers that even during the pandemic, only about 15 percent of Americans’ retail spending is online.)

And we should never underestimate the allure of shopping as a treasure hunt. Compared with other stores that mostly sell clothing, the T.J. Maxx chain has held up well this year, even though it doesn’t put a lot of attention on online shopping.

Like T.J. Maxx, the e-commerce site Wish capitalizes on our love for bargains and shopping as a game. It lets people dig through an online grab bag of mostly unnecessary and often weird products that are typically delivered slowly. The company disclosed finances on Friday that showed its sales have climbed this year.

For stores that cater to our needs, the keys to surviving this year have been both luck and finding ways to adapt to meet what we want to buy and how.

This article about two strangers forging a bond after a misdirected text message will make you feel good about humans.

We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think of this newsletter and what else you’d like us to explore. You can reach us at ontech@nytimes.com. 

If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, please sign up here.





No.18 article:
Nelly Kaplan, Whose Films Explored Female Strength, Dies at 89

An Argentine who relocated to France, she drew acclaim with “A Very Curious Girl” and other films about female characters who empowered themselves.

Nelly Kaplan, whose witty, satire-tinged French films about female empowerment and revenge made her a distinctive voice in a male-dominated era, died on Nov. 12 in Geneva. She was 89.

The Société des Réalisateurs de Films, the French filmmakers’ association, announced her death on its website. French news agencies, quoting a relative, said the cause was Covid-19.

Ms. Kaplan, who was born in Argentina, arrived in Paris in her early 20s and became both a filmmaking and a romantic partner of Abel Gance, the French director known for the innovative silent movie “Napoleon” (1927). In 1969 she drew acclaim with her first feature, “A Very Curious Girl.” (The French title was “La Fiancée du Pirate,” or “The Pirate’s Fiancée.”)

It starred Bernadette Lafont, an actress already well known from the New Wave films of Claude Chabrol and others, as Marie, a young servant who is preyed upon by men in her village until she turns the tables on them by charging for sexual favors and tape-recording the encounters, ultimately exposing the townspeople’s hypocrisy.

That film was the centerpiece of “Wild Things: The Ferocious Films of Nelly Kaplan,” a retrospective at the Quad Cinema in Manhattan in 2019 that helped fuel a new appreciation of her work and her characters.

“While very much of its time, ‘A Very Curious Girl’ remains amazingly fresh after 50 years,” the film critic J. Hoberman wrote in The Times then. “Marie’s triumph is not just a victory for her sex and class but, given the explicitly xenophobic nature of the smug patriarchal order that she upends, a win for outsiders and outcasts of all varieties.”

Ms. Kaplan made only a few feature films after that, and none achieved the level of acclaim that her debut did. The film critic Joan Dupont, who secured a rare interview with her for Film Quarterly in 2018, said Ms. Kaplan had been something of an outcast in the French film world, struggling to secure funding for her movies, battling with censors and in general not being embraced by the film establishment.

“She was never granted a retrospective at the Cinémathèque,” Ms. Dupont said by email, referring to the venerable French cinema organization. “This stung, but Nelly was never going to be less than Nelly: She spoke her mind, stuck to her guns — she never won a popularity contest. A beauty and a brain, festive and generous, ambitious and outspoken, she had no time for niceties and didn’t mind not being loved.”

Ms. Kaplan was at times identified as part of the French New Wave, since she had cast actors known for New Wave films, but Ms. Dupont said that that was a mischaracterization.

“Nelly rode her own wave,” she said.

Nelly Kaplan was born on April 11, 1931, in Buenos Aires into a Jewish intellectual family. She studied economics at the University of Buenos Aires, but, as she put it in the interview with Ms. Dupont, “I was considered a rebel, whatever that means.” Her father, she said, told her, “Change or leave,” and so she left, boarding a ship for Paris with $50 in her pocket.

She arrived there in January 1953 knowing no French. She used some of her money to buy a radio. “I listened to it nonstop,” she told the film journal Another Gaze in 2016. It helped her learn French.

She also had a letter of introduction to the Cinémathèque Francaise from the Cinemateca Argentina in Buenos Aires, where she had been a regular. That got her a meeting with Henri Langlois, the French organization’s co-founder. Mr. Gance, more than 40 years older than Ms. Kaplan, spotted her at a Cinémathèque event and asked Mr. Langlois for an introduction.

She became a valued collaborator with Mr. Gance as well as lover and muse, serving as a co-writer and assistant director on the 1960 Gance film “The Battle of Austerlitz,” among other projects.

“I was an A.D. and did all the dirty work,” she told Ms. Dupont, recalling her work on “Austerlitz.” “But,” she added, “I’m grateful that he threw me into the water. Now, nothing scares me; there’s always a solution.”

Ms. Kaplan began directing her own documentary shorts. In 1966, when Pablo Picasso was the subject of a major exhibition at the Grand Palais in Paris, she received permission to film the works as they arrived and were put on display. The footage led to an almost hourlong documentary, “The Picasso Look,” which brought her some attention. She rented a theater to show it to Picasso himself, and he apparently was appreciative. When “A Very Curious Girl” came out a few years later, he returned the compliment, calling the movie “insolence raised to the status of art.”

Ms. Kaplan’s later movies included “Néa” (1976, also titled “A Young Emmanuelle” and based on an Emmanuelle Arsan novel), about a teenage girl who writes an erotic novel and seduces the much older man who publishes it; and “Velvet Paws” (1986), a made-for-television movie about women who take revenge on a bigamist. In 1984, she made a documentary about Mr. Gance, who died in 1981, and his “Napoleon” movie.

She also wrote novels and short stories, often in a surrealist vein, as well as magazine articles and screenplays for television movies. She and her longtime partner, Claude Makovski, a producer on many of her films, had homes in France and Switzerland. He died in August at 84.

Ms. Kaplan’s movies were sometimes labeled feminist, but she did not welcome the label for herself or care for what she called the groupthink of 1970s feminism and its activism through petitions.

“I don’t like people telling me to sign things,” she told Ms. Dupont. “I like living on a branch in the jungle. Feminism doesn’t interest me. I’m not a misogynist, but in feminism there’s a hatred of men, and I can’t accept that.”

That said, she was all for female empowerment. In the 2016 interview with Another Gaze, Ms. Kaplan had some straightforward advice for women.

“You mustn’t listen to idiots who tell you that women were created to support men and things like that,” she said. “If you believe in yourself, then no matter what happens, you’ll go places, you’ll get places. And if someone tells you to give up, then you’ve got to chase them off with a pickax.”





No.19 article:
3 Brilliant Ways to Transform Leftover Stuffing

Sohla El-Waylly is here for the holiday’s best side, which she griddles into sandwich filling, fries into croutons and simmers into dumplings for soup.

Every year, I look forward to Thanksgiving as an opportunity to eat bread by the spoonful. That’s all stuffing is: bread, which is already delicious, made more perfect by being ripped into bite-size bits, tossed with seasonings and mix-ins, and baked until crisp on the outside but still squishy and soft on the inside. It’s forkable, ideal for sopping and ready to play nice with whatever else is on the plate.

I grew up in a Stove Top household, but fancied up, with milk swapped in for water, and seared giblets and sautéed vegetables added to the stuffing mix. It would appear once a year alongside all the classics: jellied cranberry sauce from the can, sliced thick along every other ridge; creamy green bean casserole topped with French’s fried onions; and a basket of doughy Pillsbury crescent rolls.

Over time, we’ve moved away from the traditional Thanksgiving spread, sometimes opting for roast duck instead of turkey, and losing the canned sauce for fresh cranberry-pomegranate relish. But I still love a casserole dish filled with stuffing; nothing else hits me with all the nostalgia of those cream-of-something soup years.

I also believe that stuffing is the pinnacle of Thanksgiving leftovers. Not only can you make stuffing with any bread, mix-ins and seasonings, it’s also a chameleon of an ingredient, ready to take any form you want to give it — quite literally. I’m enamored by how I can smash and squash stuffing, bend it to my will, to make something totally new. Show me a roast turkey that can do that!

Anywhere you might find bread, stuffing can step in and step it up, bringing with it a certain holiday flair. For my Thanksgiving leftovers turkey club, I press the stuffing into a big slab as thick as a slice of bread before cutting it into squares and griddling until seared and toasty. Each square then replaces the middle slice of bread in my turkey club, a distinctive divider for the rest of the sandwich layers. Everyone knows the sandwich you make the day after Thanksgiving is the best part of the holiday, and now it may be the best sandwich you eat all year.

This pressed-and-fried technique is useful beyond sandwiches. I also like to squeeze stuffing into a loaf pan, so it’s dense and thick, before chilling and cutting it into chunky cubes. I’ll fry the cubes until they are crackly and golden on the outside and tender and custardy on the inside. These delicate yet rich stuffing pieces top a salad of mixed greens and shaved crunchy vegetables that’s dressed with cranberry vinaigrette. It’s hot and cold, creamy and crisp, and a way to eat holiday food while technically also having a salad.

Anything bread can do, stuffing can do better, and this is especially true of dumpling soup. I mash leftover stuffing with a splash of turkey stock until all the big nuggets are broken up. Then I’ll stir in eggs, flour and baking powder to make a dumpling dough. I’ll simmer a simple bone broth with the turkey carcass — another hero of Thanksgiving leftovers — and then load up the soup with kale and sweet potato before dropping in dollops of the stuffing dumpling mix. The dumplings soak up the broth, growing plump and tender, while also adding body to the soup. Because the stuffing is already packed with flavor, the dumplings are too, without any extra help from you.

Regardless of what your holiday plans are, whether you’re cooking for only a few people or skipping the turkey altogether, go ahead and make all the stuffing. I will be making a family-size casserole for my teeny pod of two because I am here for the leftovers. I’ll be playing with my food, transforming stuffing into something new, and I hope you will be too.

Recipes: Best Thanksgiving Leftovers Sandwich | Stuffing Panzanella With Cranberry Vinaigrette | Stuffing Dumpling Soup

Turkey sandwiches with cranberry? Salad with stuffing croutons? Soup? Regardless of how you decide to eat your leftovers, your best choice for wine is to finish whichever bottles were left over from the holiday feast. Just as you are efficiently creating dishes that may be even more satisfying than the original meal, why not be as economical with the wine? Whether Beaujolais, Oregon chardonnay or any bottles you were creative enough to open the night before, enjoy them in the same spirit of relief and joy that comes with a successful meal and the realization that you don’t have to do it again for an entire year. You drank all the wine last night? Then reward yourself with the beer or cider of your choice. ERIC ASIMOV

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.20 article:
Cooperative Competition Is Possible Between China and the U.S.

A former vice foreign minister of China proposes a way forward for the world’s two leading powers.

BEIJING — The domestic politics of major countries are never kept within their borders — and the future policy orientation of the United States has become a hot topic for many people in China.

There is no denying the fact that China-U.S. relations have suffered serious damage over the past four years. Each country has expressed much complaint and concern about the other.

The United States believes that China craves world hegemony. China sees the United States as trying to block China’s way forward and as hindering its people’s pursuit of a better life.

It seems that both sides are convinced it is always the other party that is in the wrong; any initiative one of them undertakes is invariably seen by the other as an attempt to undermine it.

For example, China has proposed the Belt and Road Initiative as a global public good to promote more growth and greater connectivity, but America interprets the project as a strategy for geopolitical dominance.

As relations grew more tense in recent years, Washington started bullying Chinese high-tech companies and making things difficult for Chinese students. I have met many young Chinese entrepreneurs who studied in America and who today are puzzled to be treated like a security threat to the United States, after many years of a productive partnership between our two countries. The politicization of even people-to-people exchanges has left many wondering if what had long been mutually beneficial ties can be reinvigorated.

To refresh the relationship, each side must accurately assess the other’s intentions. China does not want to replace U.S. dominance in the world. Nor does China need to worry about the United States changing China’s system.

And it would be a tragedy of history if two countries of such power moved toward confrontation based on misperceptions. That would only work against their own fundamental interests, and many businesses and people would pay the price.

Both governments have heavy domestic agendas to attend to, and so even if competition between China and the United States is unavoidable, it needs to be managed well, cooperatively. It is possible for the two countries to develop a relationship of “coopetition” (cooperation + competition) by addressing each other’s concerns.

In the fields of economics and technology, rules and laws must prevail. It is important that Beijing listen to and address the legitimate concerns of American companies in China, such as their calls for better intellectual property protection, cybersecurity and privacy. China is making strong efforts in all these areas by improving its laws and their enforcement. The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress recently adopted amendments to China’s copyright law, raising the cost of violations, among other things.

Washington, for its part, should ensure a level playing field for Chinese enterprises to operate in the United States. America’s fear of Huawei’s cutting-edge advantages should not be expressed through government bullying: This not only hurts the company, it also limits many people’s access to technological progress. The U.S. government should instead be encouraging its companies to work and compete with Huawei.

Its attempt to block the popular social media platform TikTok on national security grounds also seems unfair since the United States has not publicly proved its allegations of security violations and the company has vowed to abide by all U.S. laws and regulations.

Washington’s so-called national security argument against Chinese companies seems hypocritical to the Chinese, considering that China, over the course of four decades or more of reform and opening up, welcomed all kinds of Western technologies and American companies into China — all the while maintaining its own national security.

And yet if the two sides engage in equal and candid negotiations, they should be able to build a solid basis for long-term relations that are beneficial to both.

On the political front, it is high time that the United States drop its habit of interfering in other countries’ internal affairs. One hopes that Washington will learn from its unsuccessful interventions the world over, for example in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. America’s concerns that foreign forces might interfere with its presidential elections should serve as a good reminder of why other countries are so sensitive about U.S. intervention in their own domestic affairs.

China finds it offensive when the United States points a finger at the Chinese system or takes action against Beijing for its policies on domestic matters. But China also needs to be more proactive in providing the rest of the world firsthand information about what the country stands for and why it is doing what it is doing.

A calmer atmosphere can be cultivated when China and the United States respect each other and acknowledge that the other has a different political system that is working in its own way.

In the security field, both countries shoulder responsibilities for ensuring that the peace and tranquillity that the Asia-Pacific region has enjoyed over the years continues to last. The United States should be respectful of China’s sense of national unity and avoid challenging China on the issue of Taiwan or by meddling in the territorial disputes of the South China Sea.

Admittedly, China’s growing navy has put some pressure on the United States in the western Pacific. The U.S. Navy, which has long claimed to be the dominant force in the region, finds the presence of a strong local military power today to be unsettling; its activities close to territories over which China claims sovereignty are met with growing objections from the Chinese military.

The United States’ insensitivity toward China’s concerns over Taiwan and territorial disputes in the South China Sea can only make Beijing suspect Washington’s motivations: Does America want to help Taiwan go independent? Is it siding with the other claimants in the region in order to humiliate China as the imperialists did in the past?

To avoid any misunderstandings and unexpected conflicts, the two militaries should talk at the strategic level in order to build mechanisms to effectively manage potential crises and find other ways to coexist peacefully.

This is not impossible. In the late 1990s, China and the United States established a consultation regime about maritime security. Later, they set up both guidelines for handling unplanned encounters at sea and in the air and a hotline to defuse any possible crises. In recent years, they established formal mechanisms to notify each other of major military activities.

Now they need to have candid talks to better understand each other’s intentions and cultivate trust.

Finally, a host of global issues call for close cooperation between China and the United States — the most urgent being the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.

Scientists from both countries have a solid track record of professional cooperation in responding to past health crises, and they should be encouraged to maximize again the potential for exchange and joint research. Both China and America are resourceful in vaccine development. If they cooperate to make vaccines more affordable and accessible, the whole world will benefit.

Climate change is another area that needs urgent attention. The world expects China and the United States to play a leading role, and the two countries have a lot to work on together. Other global topics — such as economic stability, digital security and artificial intelligence governance, to mention but a few — all cry out for united efforts as well.

To tackle these challenges, China and the United States should join hands and cooperate with all other concerned parties. Only then can multilateralism continue to bring hope for the betterment of humankind.





No.21 article:
Grammys Snubs and Surprises: The Weeknd, Luke Combs and BTS

Some of pop music’s biggest names didn’t get nominations for the 2021 awards, while a diverse list of lesser-known acts filled out the ballot.

Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Dua Lipa led the 2021 Grammy nominations on Tuesday, topping a list filled with smaller names (and missing some of the biggest players in pop). Who got left out, and what do the picks say about both the past year in music and where the Grammys are heading? Our chief pop music critic Jon Pareles, pop music critic Jon Caramanica, pop music reporter Joe Coscarelli and music business reporter Ben Sisario discussed the day’s big takeaways, snubs and surprises.

JOE COSCARELLI Another year, another set of mostly anticlimactic, head-scratching surprises from the Recording Academy.

Silly me, but I expected that because of the pandemic, which stifled a lot of releases and made breaking out as a new artist more difficult — as well as the Grammys’ commitment the last few years to at least nodding toward both diversity and cultural relevance — we would see a fairly predictable crop of big names: Taylor Swift and Post Malone, sure, but also the Weeknd, Harry Styles, Pop Smoke, BTS, Lil Baby, Roddy Ricch, Juice WRLD. Maybe Luke Combs, the Chicks and even Bob Dylan.

But across the major four categories, we instead got a bizarre hodgepodge of headliners (including Beyoncé and Billie Eilish, for off-cycle one-offs) and then names like … Black Pumas, Jhené Aiko, Jacob Collier, Coldplay (!) and D Smoke, which I could’ve sworn was a typo for “Pop Smoke.” (Nope, he’s from that Netflix hip-hop show and he’s up for two awards including best new artist.)

The Weeknd is by far the biggest snub. I don’t know if “After Hours” is his best work — critics? — but he was everywhere during this coronavirus-plagued year, and is headlining the Super Bowl halftime show (also airing on CBS!) the week after the Grammys. “Blinding Lights” was massive and inescapable, and Abel Tesfaye just played the role of Pop Star with such commitment, and the proper blend of art, commerce and costumes. There’s plenty of other nit-picking to do up top — whither Sam Hunt and Halsey, whose biggest Grammys look remains “A Star Is Born”? — but this complete “we don’t know him” for the Weeknd, resulting in zero nominations, feels loaded to me. (Email me if you Zoomed into one of those secret committee meetings.)

Thoughts?

JON CARAMANICA The Nashville oversights are baffling, particularly Luke Combs, whose album “What You See Is What You Get” is likely the biggest commercial juggernaut the genre has seen recently. I presume Hunt is passed over for having good taste? And though it’s Nashville-adjacent, it is striking to see the Chicks all but ignored, given how frequently their prior work was lauded by the Grammys, both pre- and post-country music banishment. (Their producer Jack Antonoff was nominated for producer of the year, nonclassical.)

In regards to the Weeknd, here’s a thought. What he’s become in recent years is a maestro of the synthetic — he’s not alone in making grand-scaled pop music, but he is singular in nailing the pristine plasticity of 1980s arena-pop. That makes for huge smashes — “After Hours” is an excellent album, and surprisingly quirky for a battleship of its size. But it has little to do with the show-your-work (alleged) gravitas that Grammy voters tend to favor. Plus, even though the Weeknd now shows his face, it’s often costumed in some way; he’s keeping his internal self at a remove, and in this ecosystem, that’s a liability, no matter how big the hits.

BEN SISARIO Conservatism at the Grammys used to mean that the big categories were lifetime achievement proxies, like when Ray Charles won five awards in 2005, a year after his death (and 18 years after he received the actual lifetime achievement award).

Now, the Grammys often seem to save a few slots to recognize old-sounding music by youngs, especially for the kind of thing that the word “hit” does not apply to. Two years ago, such a spot was held by Brandi Carlile. This time around, it belongs to Black Pumas, whose song “Colors” sounds like a perfectly adequate rock-soul nugget from 1973.

These choices always draw eye rolls among journalists, who (with good reason) want the Grammys to reflect the pulse of contemporary music. What they really are is an assertion of values by the Grammy deep state, communicating to the rest of the industry that whatever wacky trends may come along, an unchanging bedrock of “classic” songwriting, rooted in the rock, soul and folk of the 1960s and ’70s, will always be treasured and rewarded … at least by the people who hold the keys to the Grammy nomination process.

Do they win? Not usually. But they don’t need to win to make their point. Had you ever heard of Black Pumas before?

CARAMANICA [Googles “Black Pumas”]

Allow me to break the fourth wall for a moment: I understand at least part of my role here is to publicly head-scratch about the striking amount of nominations this band has received, given its relatively low commercial profile and its negligible critical profile and perhaps its general lack of popularity, notwithstanding the fact that it was nominated last year for best new artist. And in major categories to boot: album of the year and record of the year.

(A potentially ominous omen: they were nominated for the “deluxe” version of their album, because the original version came out before the eligibility window. I’m sure every label that extends the life of their artists’ albums with overblown deluxe editions is taking note.)

We know the Grammys prefer to honor the year’s best music that sounds like the music of some long-gone year, and this band appears to fill that requirement. So then I began to wonder about its representatives: Are they unreasonably influential? (Not really.) Maybe they have shaken a lot of hands and played a lot of small gigs for local Grammy chapters.

JON PARELES Seems to me like the Grammys just hit the snooze button and rolled over. Back when they started, in 1958, the Grammys did their best to ignore rock ’n’ roll. You’d think the boomers and younger members who eventually replaced that initial Grammy “deep state” — a great formulation, Ben — would have learned from past embarrassments. Apparently not yet. But at least now the timeline is advancing. This year, they can also indulge their nostalgia by embracing the 2019-2020 disco revival with those nominations for Dua Lipa and Doja Cat. Which brings us to … the late 1970s?

COSCARELLI Jacob Collier, it turns out, loves his digital studio tricks and is worth about 35 gecs, by my count, for his version of those Ed Sheeran collaboration projects. He’s already won four Grammys for arranging, dating back to 2016, and I think you’re seeing some big looks this year for artists that the Grammys invested in early on. You always hear about the Academy Awards liking to anoint young stars and then reward them for life, and I wonder if that explains Collier; Black Pumas (best new artist nominee, 2020); Julia Michaels (song of the year and best new artist, 2018); and H.E.R. (10 nominations over the last two ceremonies). “I Can’t Breathe” by H.E.R. and “If the World Was Ending” by Michaels and JP Saxe have topical resonance, but I’m still surprised to see them in the song of the year category.

CARAMANICA For what it’s worth, I occasionally caught myself derailed by the brutal sincerity of “If the World Was Ending” when it came on the radio in the car. But then, I like Lewis Capaldi.

SISARIO [Spits coffee]

PARELES Collier and H.E.R. both appeal to the Grammy voters’ preference for old-school, hands-on virtuosity. There’s clearly still a sizable Grammy constituency — longtime studio musicians, perhaps — that apparently doesn’t believe that programming is making music: that if you haven’t practiced those scales and chords for hours on end, or if you don’t have calluses on your guitar-playing fingers, that you’re not a “real” musician. Collier shows off all kinds of pyrotechnics on his album; H.E.R. calmly picks up a guitar or sits down at a keyboard and plays with complete command. Technicians respect technique. But that still doesn’t explain the mysterious absence of the Weeknd, who can sing, write songs and command a stage.

CARAMANICA The truth is that there is a whole level of success for a musician that has little to do with radio play, streaming success, album sales or touring scale. It is about being seen as the sort of musician that other musicians respect. (No idea if this is lucrative!) Black Pumas and Collier fit in here. And D Smoke might seem like a total outlier, but in this context, he’s not: His brother is SiR, a singer who’s signed to Top Dawg Entertainment, known as the home of Kendrick Lamar. In a(nother) year with no Kendrick album, D Smoke is a familiar alternative, and a reminder of the sorts of music — hip-hop included — that Grammy voters tend to favor: earnest, technique-driven, either shopworn or fine-tuned depending on your lens. That’s made manifest in the best rap album category (D Smoke, Nas, Freddie Gibbs, Jay Electronica and Royce Da 5’9”). If you teleported those albums (many of which I love) back to the mid-1990s and slipped them into the Walkmen of the Carhartt-and-Timbs-wearing fans of that era, they likely wouldn’t raise an eyebrow.

That said, it is notable that there are no hip-hop producers in the producer of the year category, likely because Grammy voters don’t bother investigating young producers like Jetsonmade, responsible for so many DaBaby hits and also Jack Harlow’s “Whats Poppin,” or even give thought to the Alchemist, who has become the go-to beatsmith for modern-day golden-age revivalists, and in the last two years has released strong projects with Freddie Gibbs, Boldy James, Conway the Machine and Action Bronson.

COSCARELLI I really did think we were going to see a push for two of the posthumous releases that dominated streaming, “Shoot for the Stars Aim for the Moon” by Pop Smoke and “Legends Never Die” by Juice WRLD, neither of which was even nominated for best rap album. Pop Smoke, who I naïvely thought had a shot at best new artist, is represented through a single nomination, best rap performance for “Dior.” Lil Baby’s “My Turn” and Roddy Ricch’s “Please Excuse Me for Being Antisocial” were also left out, though each got nominated for songs, with “The Bigger Picture,” Lil Baby’s Black Lives Matter protest song, earning two nominations and “The Box” getting three.

To pull back for a moment, we should issue our usual caveat: These, of course, are just the nominations, so it’s possible that Swift, Eilish and Beyoncé could sweep most of the major awards and leave this all feeling pretty Grammys-typical when all is said and done.

SISARIO The Grammys are the only time when you can truly feel sorry for Beyoncé. She was already the show’s most nominated woman. But with the latest news she has gotten yet another nine nods, bringing her lifetime total to 79. That puts her up there with the most nominated people ever, tying Paul McCartney and just behind Quincy Jones and, um, Jay-Z (both with 80).

And she might well win a few. But her chances are slim in the major categories, which are the ones that truly matter. In her career so far, Beyoncé has won 24 Grammys, taking home the genre trophies but, in almost every case, blanking on the big ones. She has lost album of the year three times (“I Am … Sasha Fierce,” “Beyoncé,” “Lemonade”), record of the year five times (“Say My Name,” “Crazy in Love,” “Irreplaceable,” “Halo,” “Formation”) and song of the year twice (“Say My Name,” “Formation”). The only time she has won a top award was song of the year, for “Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It),” on which she was one of four credited songwriters.

As much as the Recording Academy now struggles to change their organization and invite new, young and racially diverse voters, legacies like these will be awfully hard to overcome. (Want more examples? Check the track records for Kanye West, Jay-Z, Drake and Kendrick Lamar.) Even if by some miracle “Black Parade” does take a big award, it will look less like a victory than a consolation prize.

CARAMANICA It would be churlish of me not to cheer the handful of legitimately interesting nominations this year. Even though I’m still mixed on Phoebe Bridgers’s latest album, I think the acknowledgment of her work with four nominations is very promising. Same with Fiona Apple, who made one of the few critical-consensus albums of this year, and who received three nominations. The nomination of Mickey Guyton’s “Black Like Me” for best country solo performance feels particularly pointed. And I’m grateful to see Power Trip nominated in best metal performance, but frustrated it comes after the death of frontman Riley Gale.

Also, the best new artist category is fairly stacked, with only two nominees, Doja Cat and Megan Thee Stallion, with a significant popular profile. It’s rounded out with intriguing talents like Bridgers, the lite-country singer Ingrid Andress, the rapper Chika and the soulful dance-music producer Kaytranada.

For album of the year, though, things do seem like a setup for a Swift win for what, as is apparently widely known, is my least favorite Taylor album, but the one that, after a long, ambitious, largely successful run at centrist pop success, once more acknowledges the crucial boomer market.

PARELES Going back to Bridgers and Apple, they’re both nominated in best rock performance, which used to be where graying male arena acts were pastured out. This year, it’s all women — a sea change, though it leaves no room, alas, for Bob Dylan as a performer or songwriter for his 2020 album “Rough and Rowdy Ways.” Meanwhile, in categories no one pays much attention to, a lot of good music gets noticed. Check out the clunky but worthwhile American Roots Music section; it has Sarah Jarosz, Courtney Marie Andrews, the Secret Sisters, Sierra Hull, Bettye LaVette and more. Hard to go wrong there.

But with the awards that will get the prime-time treatment, it’s another story — one the Grammys keep telling, about experience leading only to inertia or nostalgia, and about technique outweighing crazy inspiration. Music doesn’t work that way — and our ears know it.





No.22 article:
Dancing Six Feet Apart? They’d Rather Not





No.23 article:
A Thanksgiving Parade, Unfazed by Snow or Wind, Takes On a Pandemic

Macy’s had to rip up its usual script and plan a new parade with the coronavirus in mind. There will be Rockettes, but don’t expect a kickline.

Not snow, not rain, not gusting winds or the Great Depression have caused the cancellation of the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade in its 96-year history. On Thursday it seems poised to power through a pandemic.

The other parades of New York City have fallen one by one, as city and state officials determined it would be unsafe to proceed with the St. Patrick’s Day Parade, the Pride March and the Puerto Rican Day Parade because they draw such huge crowds. The West Indian American Day Parade on Labor Day was forced to go virtual for similar reasons.

But the Thanksgiving Day Parade is sailing forth, largely because the millions who typically attend have been told to stay home and the event has been scaled down to a television show, albeit one that many view as itself a ritual marker of the holiday.

So the parade route will be one block long, not two miles. Those high school bands from around the country will not be marching, and instead of some 2,000 balloon handlers to coordinate, there will only be about 130.

But anyone who thinks staging this year’s parade has been a layup, not a singular feat of logistical legerdemain, has been dipping too deeply into the holiday punch.

Starting in March, the parade planners at Macy’s and NBC, which airs the event, had to rip up the carefully calibrated script and come up with an entirely new blueprint, one that evolved as new questions surfaced day after day.

What are the physics of flying the balloons, typically handled by people, if one uses squat utility vehicles instead?

How, and when, to do coronavirus tests and temperature checks for the 960 people working on the parade?

How to arrange for socially distanced stage numbers that capture the magic of Broadway without endangering anyone’s health?

How to break it to the balloon handlers and the marching bands, some of whom view the parade as somewhere between a lifelong dream and a religious event, that they won’t be involved this year?

“What I knew about Thanksgiving Day a month ago is different from what I know now,” said Susan Tercero, who is the executive producer of the event for Macy’s. “How do you plan something in June that’s going to happen in November when you have no idea where the country is going to be at then?”

History has set a high bar for canceling the parade, which has gone off every year since 1924, except for three years during World War II.

“Maybe we were crazy to think this way all along, but I think we just tried to never go there,” said Doug Vaughan, executive vice president of special programs at NBC Entertainment.

Instead, the planners kept in communication with city and state officials and responded as evidence of a second wave in New York mounted, reducing the number of participants a second time from 25 percent of their typical work force to 12 percent. Instead of about 8,000 people working a packed parade route in a normal year, the efforts of 960 people are being spread over three days of filming.

The giant balloons were cut to 12 from 16, the floats to 18 from 26.

At one point, the parade planners had imagined a shortened route that still allowed for some travel down Manhattan streets. But even that was determined to be too much of an invitation for crowds, and officials ultimately landed on a stub of parade route on 34th Street between the Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue. The result, in effect, is a broadcast set based around Macy’s flagship department store, where much of the parade has been pretaped.

Macy’s is adamant that there will be nothing to see for spectators on Thursday and police officers have been assigned to disperse any crowds that might develop. Still, police officials have reduced the detail that usually works the parade by 80 percent, said Terence A. Monahan, the chief of department.

“It’s a lot less work for us, that’s for sure,” he said. “But I’d rather be challenged to protect hundreds of thousands of people out enjoying the parade than protecting a show that people watch on TV.”

Also disappointed are the high school and college marching bands that had been selected for the lineup. Usually, Wesley Whatley, the parade’s creative producer, flies across the country to surprise band members with the news that they had scored spots on the parade route.

This year, his tour ended before it started.

The parade planners toyed with the idea of sending out film crews to capture the marching bands on their home turf, but that idea was dropped because it would involve a lot of cross-country travel, and in many cases, the young band members would have been learning remotely, away from school for several months, and unable to practice in person.

Eventually, Mr. Whatley called the directors of bands set to perform this year with the news that they could not come in November, but that they were saving them spots for the 2021 parade. The bands set for 2021 would move to 2022.

Also staying home will be most of the balloon handlers. Typically, each giant balloon — from the 49-foot-tall Astronaut Snoopy to the 53-foot-tall Pikachu — is guided by 80 to 100 uniformed handlers. Those numbers were untenable during a pandemic.

So the parade team hatched a plan to offset the weight of the balloon handlers with a formation of five utility vehicles (in a typical year, each giant balloon would have just one of these vehicles anchoring it in the center). The parade’s engineering team used the weight of the vehicle plus two “standard” 175-pound people — a total of 2,985 pounds — to calculate the proper formation of handlers underneath the balloons, said Kathleen Wright, the parade’s production director.

Each of the large balloons will have about 25 humans assigned to them, either walking or riding in the utility vehicles down the blocklong parade route.

One handler who made the cut was Kathy Kramer, a Macy’s employee who has been on the balloon team for 36 years. She is a balloon pilot, who walks backward about 30 yards in front of the balloon and directs the handlers using hand signals and a whistle.

But this year, Ms. Kramer will be wearing a mask and she discovered during practice runs that it was too difficult to operate a whistle, so Macy’s shifted to hand-held electric whistles.

The balloons are being inflated overnight on the broadcast set before they fly down 34th Street. Some will make the trip live on Thanksgiving Day. Others will have had pretaped flights.

“Even though it’s a short parade this year, my stomach will start to churn on Monday and it will continue to do so until we deflate,” Ms. Kramer said.

In another bow to a special year, Macy’s has organized it so that some groups whose parades were canceled will now have a place in the Thanksgiving event. So parade watchers on television can expect to see the New York Fire Department’s Emerald Society band with their bagpipes and bearskin hats and the Lesbian &amp; Gay Big Apple Corps Marching Band, in their rainbow sashes, all pretaped.

The dancers, stilt walkers and steel pan players who would have lit up Eastern Parkway for Carnival are being taped on Wednesday. But they will start getting their makeup done on Tuesday night because the process can take hours, said Anne-Rhea Smith, vice president of the West Indian American Day Carnival Association. She said she hopes the makeup session will resemble the preparations and feel of a typical carnival eve in Brooklyn.

“Nothing replaces that feeling,” she said, “but we’re trying our best to get as close as we can.”

In replacing the absences of the parades of past months, this event will become something of an ode to New York, at one time the epicenter of the pandemic in the United States and a cultural beacon that went largely dark in recent months. So while visitors to Lincoln Center cannot see “George Balanchine’s The Nutcracker,” this year, viewers of the parade will be able to see Ashley Bouder, a New York City Ballet principal dancer, perform as the pink tutu-ed Sugarplum Fairy. Similarly, numbers from four Broadway shows, shuttered since March, were taped in Times Square in advance of Thanksgiving week and will be part of the parade.

And despite the cancellation of the “Christmas Spectacular” at Radio City Music Hall, 18 of the 80 Rockettes will appear in their wooden soldiers costume with custom-made masks. (That particular Rockettes number was chosen because the dancers have limited contact with one another, which means no kickline.)

Hovering over the hectic planning process has been the sense that New Yorkers, and Americans, need this spirited display of joy at a time when there is much to be sad about.

That mission was also evident in 1963, six days after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, when amid nationwide mourning, Macy’s decided against canceling the parade.

The parade went on again in 2001, as New York struggled to recover from the 9/11 attacks. The poignancy of the moment was noted in some patriotic touches: a Lady Liberty float replaced Tom Turkey, for example, and the red and white candy canes in Santa’s sleigh wore ribbons of red, white and blue.

On Thursday, as this year’s parade ends, the planners say they will begin thinking almost immediately about next year’s parade. Will it be another pandemic version, the socially distant, mask wearing, joyous-but-scaled-down kind, or will it be something people can take their kids to?

“Hopefully,” Mr. Vaughan of NBC said, looking ahead to next year’s event,“the parade will look very different from this year.”





No.24 article:
David Dinkins Kept Loving Tennis, No Matter Who Mocked Him

The expansion of the National Tennis Center in Queens was among the signature achievements of the former mayor, who still played into his late 80s.

David N. Dinkins, who died Monday night at 93, was the mayor of New York. But he was also the unofficial mayor of the tennis world.

Dinkins was an avid, even obsessive player, a friend of tennis stars — in 1990, Jennifer Capriati said, “The mayor is one cool dude” — a United States Tennis Association board member, and an advocate for African-Americans and youth in the sport.

Among the signature achievements of his tenure was the deal announced in 1991 for a new stadium that helped keep the United States Open in Queens. The plan had its detractors, including Dinkins’s successor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who declined to attend the U.S. Open while in office. But another mayor, Michael Bloomberg, later said it was “the only good athletic sports stadium deal, not just in New York, but in the country.”

A love of tennis — and a resolve to diversify it — quickly became a key part of Dinkins’s public persona as he moved from assemblyman to borough president to mayor.

As he geared up to run for mayor in 1990, he was playing every Saturday and Sunday at the New York Tennis Club in the Bronx. “In terms of things I like to do, I am perfectly happy on a vacation if there is sun and sand and water, and a tennis court,” he said. Asked about his interests beyond tennis and politics, he answered, “What else is there?”

Early in his single term as mayor, a surprising issue soon began to hit the headlines: the incessant noise of jet planes taking off from La Guardia Airport and intruding on the tranquillity of the U.S. Open. Dinkins soon persuaded the Federal Aviation Administration to use special takeoff procedures during the 14-day tournament, keeping the planes farther away.

But a larger issue with what is now known as the Billie Jean King Tennis Center was still to come. Organizers were eager for bigger, better facilities, and hints were made about finding a new home for the event, perhaps outside of New York City. Dinkins brokered a deal for a $150 million expansion, crucially to be paid for by the U.S.T.A., not the city.

But the plan still had its critics. Outdoors lovers and civic groups bemoaned the loss of parkland that would be required. Eventually the plan was scaled back, to develop fewer acres and build only one new arena — which would become Arthur Ashe Stadium — instead of three.

Giuliani, who defeated Dinkins in the 1993 election but could not reverse the deal, faulted a provision that would penalize the city up to $325,000 if there were too many jet flyovers, and also knocked Dinkins’s love of tennis in general. (Giuliani is a baseball fan.)

Like golf-playing by presidents past and present, Dinkins’s tennis play was used by some as a weapon to criticize him. An article in The Daily News in 1991 claimed that Dinkins spent just three hours a day on city business and accused him of neglecting his duties to play tennis.

Dinkins refuted those accusations, and added that the article would not lead him to cut back his time on the court. “If anything, it’ll make me play more,” he said.

After losing to Giuliani in his re-election bid, Dinkins could play without complication. Checking in on Dinkins in 1995, The New York Times reported that he enjoyed “discussions of politics and government, family, social gatherings and tennis — though not necessarily in that order.” He began playing as much as five times a week.

In contrast, Giuliani continued to have little good to say about the sport or the U.S. Open, dismissing it as elitist. He said he would not attend the Open, because of his unhappiness with the contract to rebuild. He also declined to speak at the opening of the new stadium in 1997 and never attended the event as mayor. But with little public notice he did agree to approve the tennis center’s expansion after a review concluded that he had no basis for a challenge.

Dinkins continued to be a ubiquitous presence at the Open. He would stay at the grounds until midnight, then wake at 5:30 a.m. to play in Central Park. “I’ve been on the court with Chris Evert, Bjorn Borg, John McEnroe, Arthur Ashe, Billie Jean King, Virginia Wade,” he said. “And let me tell you, tennis players are the nicest people.”

Dinkins also became involved with organizations that aimed to expand tennis’s reach beyond its stereotypical country-club image, notably the National Junior Tennis League, founded by Ashe, which introduces tennis to children and teens from low-income families.

“These programs teach our young people more than just tennis,” Dinkins wrote in The Times in 1990. “They reinforce values such as discipline, courteousness, good sportsmanship, team spirit and responsibility. And they provide our young people with an alternative to the streets and allow them to release creative energy in a positive way.”

He also made an impact when he served on the board of the U.S.T.A. “He was a loud voice in the room when it came to diversity and inclusion,” said Katrina Adams, a former Tour player and U.S.T.A. president. “He helped us to understand that we represented everybody.”

“My greatest interest and concern was that people playing tennis look like this country,” Dinkins told Tennis.com. “It has been my experience that having a seat at the table alters things.”

The tennis world honored Dinkins by naming an entrance to the tennis center after him, and he is also the namesake of some Harlem tennis courts.

But for tennis nuts, what ultimately matters is your game. So what was Dinkins like on the court?

Doug Henderson, a lawyer from the Inwood section of Manhattan and a longtime friend of Dinkins, who played with him in the ’70s and ’80s said: “He had a good game; he had strong legs. Today, the players use more of the upper body; he used his legs. He was ultracompetitive. He played until he just couldn’t play any more.

“He was immaculate in his suits and ties, and also in his tennis outfits and his manners.”

As he aged, Dinkins continued to seek challenging opposition. “He enjoyed playing with good players his age and much younger,” said Peter Knobler, who co-wrote the mayor’s autobiography, “A Mayor’s Life: Governing New York’s Gorgeous Mosaic.” “He played with Monica Seles and other pros. When players met him and found he had the same passion as they did, they responded.”

Dinkins continued to play doubles until he was 88. Adams, who played with him in those years on Roosevelt Island, said: “He would always have a diverse group with him, men women, Black, white, Asian, Hispanic. He always loved bringing people together. He was strategic, on the court, but also professionally.”

“When you reach your 80s, doubles is better for you. He wasn’t very powerful and not very quick then. The passion and the intensity was there, but the changeovers got longer and longer. But he loved his forehand, especially passing down the line. I remember, because I got passed quite a few times.”





No.25 article:
Pope Calls Uighurs ‘Persecuted,’ Prompting Pushback From China

In a new book, Pope Francis mentioned the crackdown on the Muslim minority group for the first time. Beijing rejected his characterization as “groundless.”

A comment from Pope Francis in an upcoming book — in which he called ethnic Uighurs in western China a “persecuted” people for the first time — has set the Chinese government on the defense.

The reference to abuses against Uighurs, which Beijing has long denied despite mounting evidence of a brutal crackdown, could tarnish the recent warming of relations between the Vatican and China.

Writing in his new book “Let Us Dream: The Path to a Better Future,” Francis listed “the poor Uighurs” among the people of the world he kept in his mind and prayers.

“I think often of persecuted peoples,” Francis said in one passage. “The Rohingya, the poor Uighurs, the Yazidi — what ISIS did to them was truly cruel — or Christians in Egypt and Pakistan killed by bombs that went off while they prayed in church.”

Zhao Lijian, the spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said during a Tuesday news briefing that the pope’s words had “no factual basis,” according to The Associated Press.

“The Chinese government has always protected the legal rights of ethnic minorities equally,” he said, according to Reuters. 

The Vatican has worked cautiously and persistently over the years toward establishing an agreement with the Chinese government on church operations in China. An agreement on the appointment of Roman Catholic bishops, first reached in 2018, was renewed last month despite the opposition of the U.S. government.

The deal ended a decades-long power struggle over the right to appoint bishops in China. Beijing agreed to formally recognize the pope’s authority within the church and gave him the final say on bishops, while the Vatican agreed to recognize the legitimacy of bishops previously appointed by the Chinese government. But other details of the agreement have not been disclosed.

The Vatican said in a statement on Tuesday that it had appointed a third bishop in China under the agreement with Chinese authorities, and that “a number of processes for new episcopal ordinations are ongoing.”

Many analysts see the continuation of the agreement as a critical step toward restoring diplomatic relations that broke down decades ago after the Communist Party took power in Beijing. But the comments from the pope’s new book could cause trouble. Human rights groups and governments around the world have denounced the Chinese government’s persecution of the group after evidence emerged of the mass internment of more than one million Uighurs and other Muslim minorities in so-called re-education camps in far western China, as well as for mass surveillance and travel restrictions.

Cardinal Charles Maung Bo, the archbishop of Yangon, Myanmar, and the president of the Federation of Asian Bishops’ Conferences, has also raised the issue of the treatment of Uighurs, reprimanding the international community for inaction.

“In China, the Uighur Muslims are facing what amounts to some of the contemporary world’s worst mass atrocities,” Cardinal Bo said in a statement released in July. “And I urge the international community to investigate.”

But before the comments emerged this week, the pontiff had remained silent on the abuses against the Uighurs, a tactics experts saw as an effort to avoid alienating Chinese officials at a time when the two states were negotiating.

Pope Francis has similarly faced controversy before over his comments, or lack thereof, about a persecuted minority group. In a 2017 trip to Myanmar and Bangladesh, the pontiff at first avoided using the word “Rohingya” when referring to the Muslim minority group that has suffered a systematic campaign of murder and rape by Myanmar’s military. The pope’s uncharacteristic silence was harshly criticized, casting a shadow over his visit.

But after meeting with some Rohingya refugees in neighboring Bangladesh, he asked forgiveness, and he has since defended the group, calling them “brothers and sisters” in this book.

In the 150-page, far-reaching text — a relaying of conversation with his English-language biographer, Austen Ivereigh — Francis reiterated one of his most fervent messages of his seven-year pontificate: The church needs to go to the margins to see life as it really is.

“I’ve always thought that the world looks clearer from the periphery,” he said in the book. “When God wanted to regenerate creation, He chose to go to the margins — to places of sin and misery, of exclusion and suffering, of illness and solitude.”

The pontiff also discussed social behaviors that he deemed shortsighted and dangerous, like demonstrations against measures intended to stem the spread of the coronavirus — like wearing masks — and questioned the protesters’ moral values.

“It is all too easy for some to take an idea — in this case, for example, personal freedom — and turn it into an ideology,” he said, adding that you would “never find such people” engaged in social justice demonstrations.

“They are incapable of moving outside of their own little world of interests,” the pope said.

Francis himself has been criticized for not wearing a mask during his public appearances.





No.26 article:
Black Goalkeepers, Big Clubs and Europe’s Uneven Playing Field

Chelsea’s match against Rennes in the Champions League is a rare meeting of Black goalkeepers on club soccer’s biggest stage. But why are there so few of them?

On the surface, Chelsea’s victory against Rennes in the Champions League a few weeks ago was just another of those disposable, check-box exercises that litter the group stages of the competition. Chelsea, the heavy favorite — the team with superior financial firepower, a deeper squad and broader ambitions — cruised to a win.

Beyond the score, there seemed little to remember it by. And yet that game, like Tuesday’s return match in France, was a rarity not only in the Champions League, but in elite European soccer as a whole.

Startlingly, troublingly, these may be the only two games in the Champions League this season in which both teams played a Black goalkeeper: Édouard Mendy, the 28-year-old acquired by Chelsea in September, and Alfred Gomis, the man who replaced him at Rennes.

Few sports are quite the level playing fields they believe themselves to be. Black quarterbacks were once as rare in the N.F.L. as Black entrants were at tennis championships and golf majors. Soccer, like so many other sports, still struggles for Black representation in leadership roles: There are few Black managers, and even fewer Black executives.

And, certainly, there is abundant anecdotal evidence that the game — in Europe, if not in the United States or Africa — harbors a deep-rooted skepticism toward Black goalkeepers, one that has been allowed to fester through lack of analysis, lack of opportunity and even lack of acknowledgment.

André Onana, the Ajax goalkeeper, has a story about the time an Italian club informed him that its fans simply would not accept a move to sign a Black goalkeeper. There is another one about a former Premier League manager who, when presented with two potential new recruits, outright dismissed the one who was not white. He did not need to see him play, he said.

For most of his career in England, the former goalkeeper Shaka Hislop was aware of the unspoken stereotype that shadowed him, and he still remembers those occasions when it was given voice. Like the day he and his teammates for Trinidad and Tobago were waiting in a New York airport and an immigration officer — not quite realizing who he was — explained to him, at length, why Black players did not make good goalkeepers.

Quite how deep-rooted the problem remains, though, is borne out by the figures. Of Europe’s five major leagues, France’s 20-team Ligue 1 — where nine Black goalkeepers featured last season, and eight have already received playing time this year — is very much an outlier. The numbers elsewhere are stark.

Before last week’s international break, 77 goalkeepers had appeared for at least a minute across the Bundesliga, Serie A and La Liga. None of them were Black. Last year, appearances by Black goalkeepers were similarly rare: only two of the 92 men who played goal in Italy and Spain, and only two of the 36 who featured in Germany.

The figures in England are almost as striking. While Mendy has quickly established himself at Chelsea, the five other Black goalkeepers currently registered to Premier League squads, including the United States international Zack Steffen at Manchester City, have yet to play in the league.

The contrast between the paltry amount of Black goalkeepers and the number of Black outfield players across all of Europe’s elite leagues is such that it is hard to write it off as coincidence or the illusion of a momentary snapshot. Black goalkeepers are chronically underrepresented in European soccer. African ones are even more uncommon.

Every year, for example, the traditional powerhouse nations of West Africa have dozens of players on rosters in Europe’s major leagues. But the first-choice goalkeepers of Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Ghana all still play in Africa. And while no African country has produced quite so many elite goalkeepers as Cameroon, which once sent Jacques Songo’o and Thomas N’Kono to play in Spain and Joseph-Antoine Bell off to a long career in France, that nation’s current No. 1 goalkeeper, Fabrice Ondoa, has not yet left Belgium’s top division for one of Europe’s marquee leagues.

Ondoa’s cousin — and national teammate — Onana does, at least, play in the Champions League for Ajax. But only Senegal, with two goalkeepers — Mendy and Gomis — playing in the world’s biggest club competition, can say with confidence it has two goalkeepers competing at professional soccer’s highest level.

Mendy does not have a ready explanation for why that might be. Perhaps, he said at his introduction as a Chelsea player, it was something to do with the ill-defined “profile” of players that coaches wanted. Others have different, more deep-rooted explanations.

“There used to be a stigma attached to the idea of a Black quarterback in the N.F.L.,” said Tim Howard, the former Everton and United States goalkeeper. “There was this idea that they were not as cerebral.”

Howard sees an echo of that in the dearth of Black goalkeepers. Soccer has long considered itself a meritocracy — at least on the field — that has moved beyond old, damaging stereotypes. Dig a little deeper, though, and their pernicious influence remains. Black players are still statistically less likely to play in central or attacking midfield, for example, and are far more likely to be praised by commentators for physical attributes like pace and power than about more intangible qualities like “intelligence” and “leadership.” And very rarely, it seems, are they given a chance at the elite European level to play in goal.

Mendy accepts that it falls to him to help overturn the stereotype. All he can do, he said, is “show I can really perform at this level, and perhaps change people’s mentalities on these things.” To those who have had to endure the same prejudices, though, who spent their careers hoping to be an agent of change, that is part of the problem.

Hislop, now a commentator for ESPN, zooms in on the case of Jordan Pickford, the current first-choice goalkeeper for both Everton and England’s national team. Pickford has come under scrutiny in the last few years both for perceived technical flaws in his game and for a tendency toward rashness. “Everyone comes under the spotlight once in a while,” Hislop said.

The difference is that, whenever Pickford makes a mistake, “nobody uses his performances to proclaim that white players don’t make good goalkeepers,” Hislop said. If Pickford errs, the only reputation that suffers is his own.

Black goalkeepers, Hislop argues, are not afforded the same privilege. It felt to him during his career, he said, as if every individual error was used as conclusive proof that all “Black goalkeepers make mistakes.” And it did not apply just to him: He believed that when David James, a goalkeeper with Liverpool, Manchester City and England, made mistakes, those errors were held up as supporting evidence for the stereotype.

He sees a parallel with Black representation in other areas of the sport, too. Hislop cites Les Ferdinand, the director of football at Queens Park Rangers, currently in England’s second-tier Championship. As soon as he was appointed, Hislop said, Ferdinand knew there was more than just his reputation riding on his performance.

“If 80 percent of the white male directors of football in the league are abject failures, that will not stop anyone appointing the next white guy,” Hislop said. “But Les had to be outstanding for other Black players to be given a shot.”

The same applies to goalkeepers, in Hislop’s eyes, and creates a self-fulfilling cycle. Carlos Kameni, a former Cameroon international who spent the bulk of his career at Espanyol in Spain, said he was confident that the dearth of Black goalkeepers was not “a form of racism.”

If a goalkeeper is good enough, Kameni said, one of Europe’s major clubs will sign him, and he uses Mendy’s arrival at Chelsea as supporting evidence. To Kameni, the problem is much simpler. “There are not enough Black goalkeepers who are good enough,” he said over a series of WhatsApp messages.

Those two things, though, are not unconnected. The problem, Hislop said, is not only that coaches are less likely to give aspiring Black goalkeepers a chance to showcase their talents, but that Black players have fewer role models offering proof that they can succeed. “They do not have an example to follow,” he said.

He is, at least, hopeful. He sees a raft of promising Black goalkeepers in the United States, a country and a soccer culture where Howard, Bill Hamid, Sean Johnson and now Steffen have effectively killed off the stereotype, and where Philadelphia’s Andre Blake — a Jamaica international — was just named Major League Soccer’s goalkeeper of the year.

More pertinently, Hislop cites Brazil as proof that stereotypes can disappear. For a long time — and despite compelling evidence to the contrary — it was held as gospel truth that Brazil did not produce high-quality goalkeepers.

“Everyone in Trinidad and Tobago also kind of considers themselves a Brazil fan,” Hislop said. “And they would always say that Brazil didn’t make goalkeepers. But now you have Alisson and Ederson, who are two of the best in the world. Nobody will ever say that again.”

Prejudices, unspoken or not, can be exposed. Vicious cycles can be stopped in their tracks, or even reversed. Mendy, Gomis, Onana and the rest can help that process. The shame, of course, is that they have to do so.





No.27 article:
Happy Thanksgiving to All Those Who Told the Truth in This Election

Civil servants, elected officials and judges did their jobs and protected democracy.

With so many families gathering, in person or virtually, for this most unusual Thanksgiving after this most unusual election, if you’re looking for a special way to say grace this year, I recommend the West Point Cadet Prayer. It calls upon each of these future military leaders to always choose “the harder right instead of the easier wrong” and to know “no fear when truth and right are in jeopardy.”

Because we should be truly thankful this Thanksgiving that — after Donald Trump spent the last three weeks refusing to acknowledge that he’d lost re-election and enlisted much of his party in a naked power play to ignore the vote counts and reinstall him in office — we had a critical mass of civil servants, elected officials and judges who did their jobs, always opting for the “harder right” that justice demanded, not the “easier wrong” that Trump and his allies were pressing for.

It was their collective integrity, their willingness to stand with “Team America,” not either party, that protected our democracy when it was facing one of its greatest threats — from within. History will remember them fondly.

Who am I talking about? I am talking about F.B.I. Director Christopher Wray, a Trump appointee, who in September openly contradicted the president and declared that historically we have not seen “any kind of coordinated national voter fraud effort in a major election” involving mail-in voting.

I am talking about Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — a conservative Republican — who oversaw the Georgia count and recount and insisted that Joe Biden had won fair and square and that his state’s two G.O.P. senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, did not garner enough votes to avoid election runoffs. Perdue and Loeffler dishonorably opted for the easier wrong and brazenly demanded Raffensperger resign for not declaring them winners.

I am talking about Chris Krebs, the director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, who not only refused to back up Trump’s claims of election fraud, but whose agency issued a statement calling the 2020 election “the most secure in American history,” adding in bold type, “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes or was in any way compromised.”

Krebs did the hard right thing, and Trump fired him by tweet for it. Mitch McConnell, doing the easy wrong thing, did not utter a peep of protest.

I am talking about the Republican-led Board of Supervisors in Maricopa County, Ariz., which, according to The Washington Post, “voted unanimously Friday to certify the county’s election results, with the board chairman declaring there was no evidence of fraud or misconduct ‘and that is with a big zero.’”

I am talking about Mitt Romney, the first (and still virtually only) Republican senator to truly call out Trump’s postelection actions for what they really were: “overt pressure on state and local officials to subvert the will of the people and overturn the election.”

I am talking about U.S. District Judge Matthew W. Brann, a registered Republican, who dismissed Trump’s allegations that Republican voters in Pennsylvania had been illegally disadvantaged because some counties permitted voters to cure administrative errors on their mail ballots.

As The Washington Post reported, Brann scathingly wrote on Saturday “that Trump’s attorneys had haphazardly stitched this allegation together ‘like Frankenstein’s Monster’ in an attempt to avoid unfavorable legal precedent.”

And I am talking about all the other election verification commissioners who did the hard right things in tossing out Trump’s fraudulent claims of fraud.

Asking for recounts in close elections was perfectly legitimate. But when that failed to produce any significant change in the results, Trump took us to a new dark depth. He pushed utterly bogus claims of voting irregularities and then tried to get Republican state legislatures to simply ignore the popular vote totals and appoint their own pro-Trump electors before the Electoral College meets on Dec. 14.

That shifted this postelection struggle from Trump versus Biden — and who had the most votes — to Trump versus the Constitution — and who had the raw power and will to defend it or ignore it.

To all of these people who chose to do the hard right thing and defend the Constitution and the rule of law over their party’s interest or personal gain, may you have a blessed Thanksgiving.

You stand in stark contrast to Bill Barr, Mike Pompeo (who apparently never attended chapel at West Point), Mike Pence, Rudy Giuliani, Lindsey Graham, Mitch McConnell, Kevin McCarthy, Nikki Haley, Kayleigh McEnany and all the other G.O.P. senators and House members, who put their party and self-interest before their country and opted for the easy wrongs. History will remember them, too.

Though Trump is now grudgingly letting the presidential transition proceed, we must never, ever, forget the damage he and his allies inflicted on American democracy by attacking its very core — our ability to hold free and fair elections and transfer power peacefully. Tens of millions of Americans now believe something that is untrue — that our system is rigged. Who knows what that will mean in the long run?

The depths to which Trump and his legal team sank was manifested last Thursday when Giuliani and Sidney Powell held a news conference alleging, among other things, that software used to disadvantage Trump voters was created at the direction of the late Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. It was insane.

As Jonah Goldberg, a conservative critic of Trumpism, wrote in thedispatch.com: “The G.O.P.’s social media account spewed sound bites from Powell and Giuliani out into the country like a fire hose attached to a sewage tank.” Fox carried the whole news conference live — uninterrupted — for virtually its entire 90 minutes.

Shame on all these people.

Sure, now Trump and many of his enablers are finally bowing to reality — but it is not because they’ve developed integrity. It is because they WERE STOPPED by all those people who had integrity and did the hard right things.

And “shame” is the right word for these people, because a sense of shame was lost these past four years and it needs to be re-established. Otherwise, what Trump and all his sycophants did gets normalized and permanently erodes confidence in our elections. That is how democracies die.

You can only hope that once they are out of power, Barr, Pompeo, Giuliani and all their compatriots will be stopped on the streets, in restaurants or at conferences and politely but firmly asked by everyday Americans: “How could you have stayed all-in when Trump was violating the deepest norms that bind us as a democracy?”

And if they are deaf to the message being sent from their fellow citizens, then let’s hope some will have to face an interrogation from their own children at the Thanksgiving table this year:

“Mom, Dad — did you really side with Trump when it was Trump versus the Constitution?”





No.28 article:
Transition Gets Underway in Earnest as Biden Team Fans Out Across Capital

Within hours of the Trump administration’s decision to stop blocking the process, representatives of the president-elect began coordinating the handover of power.

WASHINGTON — Teams from President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s transition began reaching out across Washington on Tuesday, freed for the first time to interact with their counterparts in the government after President Trump’s administration ended its two-week blockade of an orderly transfer of power.

Mr. Trump authorized intelligence agencies on Tuesday to begin briefing Mr. Biden on classified information delivered in the President’s Daily Brief. Officials said the briefing would be scheduled soon, but did not provide details. Mr. Biden said he planned to be briefed “on a regular basis.”

Transition officials said teams had made contact with every federal agency to begin setting up meetings. About 20 of those meetings took place on Tuesday, including at the Department of Homeland Security and the Education Department. Officials said the reception from the Trump administration was responsive and helpful.

Mr. Trump had relented on Monday in his refusal to allow a formal transition to begin, while still refusing to concede defeat and vowing on Twitter on Tuesday morning that “our big lawsuit” will be filed soon and declaring “RIGGED ELECTION!” Within hours, Mr. Biden’s team moved to quickly make use of the 57 days left until the inauguration.

Mr. Biden had warned that the holdup of the transition threatened national security by depriving his team of critical briefings and put the distribution of coronavirus vaccines at risk if his advisers could not work side by side with current health officials. In an interview with “NBC Nightly News” on Tuesday, Mr. Biden said he was pleased by the administration’s belated decision to let the transition proceed.

“I think we’re going to not be so far behind the curve, as we thought we might be in the past,” Mr. Biden said. “And there’s a lot of immediate discussion, and I must say, the outreach has been sincere. There has not been begrudging so far. And I don’t expect it to be.”

On Wall Street, the stock market surged on the news that a robust transition was set to begin, with the Dow Jones industrial average surpassing 30,000 for the first time. Investors appeared buoyed by Mr. Biden’s choice of Janet Yellen, a former chair of the Federal Reserve, to serve as Treasury secretary.

Mr. Trump, in an appearance at the White House that lasted only about a minute, sought to take credit for the market’s rise.

“The stock market’s just broken 30,000. Never been broken, that number,” Mr. Trump told reporters without taking questions. “That’s a sacred number, 30,000. Nobody thought they’d ever see it,” he said, adding, “I just want to congratulate all the people within the administration that worked so hard.”

The transition officially began on Monday evening, when Emily W. Murphy, the administrator of the General Services Administration, sent Mr. Biden a letter saying that as the apparent winner of the election, he was entitled to government office space, resources and the ability to coordinate with administration officials.

That process is governed by legislation and several memorandums of agreement signed months ago by the two sides, including a pledge from the White House chief of staff to ensure that Mr. Biden, if he won the election, would receive up-to-date information about threats facing the country.

In a memorandum sent to White House employees late Monday night, Mark Meadows, the chief of staff, reminded them to conduct all work-related communications with White House email accounts. And he said records must be preserved.

He also warned, in bold letters, against unauthorized contact by the White House staff members — known as members of the Executive Office of the President — with members of the Biden transition team.

“Unless specifically authorized,” he wrote, “E.O.P. personnel are not permitted to speak directly with a member of the Biden transition team or the federal transition coordinator.”

The warning underscored the sensitivity that usually accompanies discussions between administrations during a transition and the need for confidentiality.

With the pandemic raging, Biden transition officials are especially eager to start coordination with officials at the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and members of the Operation Warp Speed project, which has a role in vaccine distribution. Transition officials have said they want to begin receiving official government data about the number of cases, hospitalizations and deaths from the virus.

Ms. Murphy’s letter on Monday prompted an almost immediate acknowledgment from the Department of Health and Human Services, the hub of the administration’s pandemic response. Alex M. Azar II, the health secretary, said on Tuesday that Rear Adm. Erica G. Schwartz, the deputy surgeon general, had communicated on Monday with the Biden team.

“We will ensure coordinated briefings with them to ensure they’re getting whatever information that they feel they need,” Mr. Azar said.

In addition to the transition’s formal agency review teams, Mr. Biden has dozens of public health experts and former health officials reviewing the Trump administration’s pandemic response.

Transition briefings are likely to center on the health department’s evolving plans to distribute a coronavirus vaccine, a vast and complicated effort that the department is coordinating with the Pentagon and the C.DC. The first doses could be administered as soon as mid-December if the Food and Drug Administration authorizes Pfizer’s candidate for emergency use.

Transition officials have also been eager to talk to Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert. Mr. Biden told reporters on Tuesday that his staff had spoken to Dr. Fauci, but that he had not. “He’s been very, very helpful,” Mr. Biden said.

One top official at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Tuesday afternoon that the Biden team had yet to communicate with top agency staff members, but that a team of career scientists had prepared an extensive set of public health briefing materials, including on the agency’s role in vaccine distribution.

At the Food and Drug Administration, where regulators are evaluating Pfizer’s vaccine, staff members were told to route all contact through James Sigg, the agency’s chief operating officer. Two top advisers to Dr. Stephen M. Hahn, the F.D.A. commissioner, have spent months compiling what is known as the Covid-19 Pandemic Recovery and Preparedness Plan, a review of the agency’s work this year that they expect to complete in January.

Biden transition team members began contacting Pentagon officials on Monday night. Thomas M. Muir, the director of the Defense Department’s transition task force, said that the Biden-Harris team “did reach out to me personally” and that Pentagon officials and the Biden team met on Tuesday morning.

“We are looking forward to continuing the process with the Biden-Harris transition team,” Mr. Muir said on a call with reporters. Mr. Biden’s transition team will get dedicated office space at the Pentagon.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Tuesday on Fox News that the State Department “will do everything that’s required by law.”

At the Treasury Department, senior officials told staff members in some offices that they were beginning to compile transition briefing books and that they expected to meet with the Biden transition team soon, according to a person familiar with the matter. A Treasury spokeswoman said the department’s transition team had begun meeting with Mr. Biden’s team.

Chase Jennings, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, said the agency held its first meeting with Mr. Biden’s team on Tuesday. A spokeswoman for the Education Department said meetings with the Biden transition team began on Tuesday.

The start of the formal transition also clears the way for government-run background checks of Mr. Biden’s cabinet nominees and other top aides who require high-level security clearances. Those checks, which are conducted by the F.B.I. and other agencies, had also been held up until Ms. Murphy’s decision. Bureau officials said they will investigate potential appointees as the office receives written requests from Mr. Biden’s team.

Other, smaller changes will take place as well. Transition members will start using government email accounts — ending in ptt.gov, for “presidential transition team” — and Mr. Biden’s official transition website, buildbackbetter.com, has already moved to a government server and been renamed buildbackbetter.gov.





No.29 article:
Evidence Builds That an Early Mutation Made the Pandemic Harder to Stop

Scientists were initially skeptical that a mutation made the coronavirus more contagious. But new research has changed many of their minds.

As the coronavirus swept across the world, it picked up random alterations to its genetic sequence. Like meaningless typos in a script, most of those mutations made no difference in how the virus behaved.

But one mutation near the beginning of the pandemic did make a difference, multiple new findings suggest, helping the virus spread more easily from person to person and making the pandemic harder to stop.

The mutation, known as 614G, was first spotted in eastern China in January and then spread quickly throughout Europe and New York City. Within months, the variant took over much of the world, displacing other variants.

For months, scientists have been fiercely debating why. Researchers at Los Alamos National Laboratory argued in May that the variant had probably evolved the ability to infect people more efficiently. Many were skeptical, arguing that the variant may have been simply lucky, appearing more often by chance in large epidemics, like Northern Italy’s, that seeded outbreaks elsewhere.

But a host of new research — including close genetic analysis of outbreaks and lab work with hamsters and human lung tissue — has supported the view that the mutated virus did in fact have a distinct advantage, infecting people more easily than the original variant detected in Wuhan, China.

There is no evidence that a coronavirus with the 614G mutation causes more severe symptoms, kills more people or complicates the development of vaccines. Nor do the findings change the reality that places that quickly and aggressively enacted lockdowns and encouraged measures like social distancing and masks have fared far better than the those that did not.

But the subtle change in the virus’s genome appears to have had a big ripple effect, said David Engelthaler, a geneticist at the Translational Genomics Research Institute in Arizona. “When all is said and done, it could be that this mutation is what made the pandemic,” he said.

The first outbreaks of the virus would have spread around the world even without the mutation, believe most researchers, including Dr. Engelthaler. The original variant spotted in Wuhan, China, in late 2019 was already highly contagious, he said. But the mutation appears to have made the pandemic spread further and faster than it would have without it.

Scientists are especially cautious in this area of virology.

Lab studies found that mutations of the Ebola virus, which spread in West Africa starting in 2013, increased infectivity in tissue culture. But that conclusion did not translate to increased transmission in lab studies with animals. And some experts said the effect of the 614G mutation might be modest compared with other factors, like social distancing rates.

But the new evidence, from research groups in the United Kingdom and the United States, has changed the minds of many scientists who were initially skeptical.

One study found that outbreaks in communities in the United Kingdom grew faster when seeded by the 614G variant than when seeded by its Wuhan ancestor. Another reported that hamsters infected each other more quickly when exposed to the variant. And in a third, the variant infected human bronchial and nasal tissue in a cell-culture dish far more efficiently than its ancestor.

Trevor Bedford, associate professor at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington, said that the collection of findings from different lines of research had won him over.

“My being convinced comes from seeing the same thing repeatedly,” Dr. Bedford said. “I think at this point that it is real.”

While impressed with the new work, Dr. Bedford and other scientists said it was still unclear if an inherent advantage was the main reason for the global dominance of the variant.

Kristian Andersen, a geneticist at Scripps Research, La Jolla, said the research did show that the variant is more transmissible, but he believes the difference is subtle.

Even so, Dr. Andersen said that the variant’s higher transmissibility could help explain why some countries that were initially successful in containing the virus became susceptible to it later. The virus may have been “harder to contain than the first time around,” he said.

“What you used to do may not be quite enough to control it,” Dr. Andersen said. “Don’t necessarily expect that the enemy of two months ago is the enemy you have the next time.”

Around the world, the emergence of 614G has generated both serious scientific debate and largely political blame dodging. Government officials in Vietnam and Thailand, which fared well in containing the ancestral strain despite an influx of Chinese visitors early in the year, have suggested that the later outbreaks may have been partly the result of the 614G virus.

Thailand has kept both variants of the virus under control over the past year through the strict quarantining of returnees, a ban on foreign tourists, masks and other measures, said Thira Woratanarat, an associate professor in the faculty of medicine at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. Still, he said, resurgences in the region are concerning.

“We have seen several countries, like Vietnam, South Korea and Japan, that seemed to have it under control,” Dr. Thira said. “But then there was a second wave.”

In Vietnam, he said, the virus with the 614G mutation was first confirmed in the central coastal city of Danang after about 100 days with no reported cases of local transmission. An outbreak quickly spread to 10 cities and provinces. In Singapore, he said, the mutated virus spread in crowded dormitories for migrant workers.

“When the mutated virus lives in big groups, it spreads faster and makes it much more difficult to control,” he said.

But other researchers said that a lack of proper containment measures, not the mutation, is largely to blame for resurgent outbreaks.

“The reason this is spreading is people are not having enough measures in place,” said Kari Stefansson, founder and chief executive of deCODE Genetics, a leading genome analysis firm based in Iceland. “It seems like extraordinarily poor politics to blame the inadequacies on the virus. They should be picking on someone their own size, not this tiny virus.”

In one of the new studies, a British team of researchers had an advantage shared by no one else: They were able to draw upon the largest national database of coronavirus genome sequences in the world. The researchers collected new evidence that, at least in the United Kingdom, the variant took over because it indeed spreads faster.

“When we look at clusters, the G variant grows more quickly,” said Erik M. Volz, a researcher at the Medical Research Council Center for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London and the leader of the study.

The data collected by the Covid-19 Genomics U.K. Consortium allowed the team to observe the growth of infected clusters as a kind of horse race. Side by side, did clusters of 614G infections grow faster than infections involving the ancestral variant?

The 614G variant clearly won the race, the analysis found. The precise rate remains uncertain, but the most likely value gives 614G roughly a 20 percent advantage in its exponential rate of growth.

“This is exactly the kind of analysis that needed to be done, and it provides more support for G being more transmissible” than the ancestral virus, said one of the researchers, Katharina V. Koelle, an associate professor of biology at Emory University.

In a separate series of studies, a team led by Ralph Baric at the University of North Carolina tested live viruses, comparing the 614G variant with the ancestral version. In one, the team found that 614G viruses were more infectious in samples of human bronchial and nasal tissue, the most likely source of virus to be transmitted to others.

Another study, published in Science, found that the variant was more readily transmissible in hamsters when infected animals came within a few inches of each other. Scientists consider animal experiments a critical step to test whether a mutation that makes viruses more infectious in a lab dish also does so in a living population.

Dr. Baric’s team placed an infected hamster in a cage, adjacent to the cage of an uninfected one; the cages were several inches apart, so the animals could not touch one another. Any transmission could occur only through the air, in droplets or aerosols.

After two days, five of eight hamsters with the 614G variant had infected its pair. None of those with the ancestral virus had done so.

“When you take all the data together, everything is consistent with a system that increases infectiousness and transmissibility,” Dr. Baric said.

The virus will continue to change, and while most of those changes will be mere typos, some may be more meaningful, Dr. Engelthaler said. “There will be the possibility of additional alterations that change the nature of the pandemic,” he said.

Already, Dr. Engelthaler said, he has seen strong indications of such alterations in his own unpublished data tracking the spread of different variants in Arizona.

“We have to listen to what the virus is telling us,” he said.





No.30 article:
Amnesia Grips a Bosnian Spa That Served as a Rape Camp

A forest health resort promotes its therapeutic waters and fine dining but bristles with anger at any mention of its gruesome past.

VISEGRAD, Bosnia and Herzegovina — As night falls, owls hoot and frogs croak in the forest around Vilina Vlas, a spa getaway in eastern Bosnia. A gentle wind rustles the pine trees that swaddle the health resort, described by one guidebook as “a perfect spot for a romantic evening.”

Eager for a good rest after a long bus journey, Kym Vercoe, an Australian actress on holiday in the Balkans, checked into the spa hoping to enjoy its soothing calm.

But something was off. She could not sleep. “I was awake all night,” Ms. Vercoe recalled in a telephone interview from Australia.

After she returned home, she read up on the place and learned about its history: The spa hotel had once been a rape and murder camp. She wondered if she had sensed its history in some way, and said she “felt duped and angry.”

“I am not a religious person but I felt awful just being there,” Ms. Vercoe said.

United Nations investigators reported in 2011 that at the spa, “the prisoners were raped repeatedly.” The investigators detailed how, during the Balkan wars of the early 1990s, the spa had been commandeered by a gang of Serb nationalist thugs who called themselves the White Eagles and The Avengers.

Many of their captives, mostly Bosnian Muslim women but also some men, the U.N. concluded, were “never seen again.” Some women jumped to their deaths from upper floors, while others were killed, “suffocated in a system of gas pipes at the hotel.”

Twenty-five years after a peace agreement reached in Dayton, Ohio ended the Bosnia war, how to deal with trauma left by the past still haunts the country.

Ms. Vercoe ended up writing a play about her experience, which was later turned into a film, “For Those Who Can Tell No Tales,” directed by Jasmila Zbanic, a celebrated Bosnian director, and starring Ms. Vercoe, who plays herself.

For Bosnians, however, dealing with past horror is far more difficult and painful.

Like nearly all issues in Bosnia today, views on what to do about the Vilina Vlas spa diverge sharply along ethnic lines.

Some Muslim victims want the spa razed while others think it should be allowed to stand so long as past crimes are acknowledged. Most Serbs want the spa freed from the stains of the war so that it can help the local economy, which relies heavily on tourism, and even expand. 

Tim Clancy, an American who has lived in Bosnia since the war and wrote the only comprehensive, English-language guidebook to the country, said he had long wrestled with the question of “how long a community should be held hostage to the past.”

Bakira Hasecic, a Bosnian Muslim who fled her village near the spa in 1992 after a campaign of “ethnic cleansing” by Serb fanatics, described Vilina Vlas, which reopened to paying guests after the war, as “the center of evil.”

Yet, she doesn’t think it should be shut down. “If we closed every place in Bosnia where war crimes occurred we would have to shut down the whole country,” she said, explaining that all she asks for is a plaque at the spa’s entrance to acknowledge past crimes.

Raped three times herself, though not at Vilina Vlas but, she said, at a police station in the nearby town of Visegrad, a school and the Institute for the Protection of Women and Children, Ms. Hasecic has struggled for more than two decades to force a reckoning with Bosnia’s past.

She founded the Association of Women War Victims, interviewed survivors and testified before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, a court in The Hague, which has convicted some of those responsible for the horrors at Vilina Vlas, including a former leader of the White Eagles, Milan Lukic.

“There is not a single bed in this place on which a woman was not raped or killed,” Ms. Hasecic said during a recent visit, referring to evidence she collected showing that around 200 women were sexually assaulted at the spa, of whom only 15 escaped alive. “Anyone who knows what happened, if they are at least a bit normal, would not stay there.”

What happened, though not the details, has long been known, starting with a Washington Post report in 1992 of a 17-year-old rape victim and her 15-year-old sister, and a 1996 investigation into the wartime crimes of Mr. Lukic by The New York Times. But many guests, like Ms. Vercoe, still have no idea.

Those who work at the spa today, many of them too young to have played any role in the crimes of the 1990s, seem to want to forget.

On a visit in late fall, the spa was busy, despite the coronavirus pandemic. Fitted with the same dark wooden closets and beds that were there during the war, some still bearing carved wartime inscriptions, the spa’s 72 rooms line long gloomy corridors covered in stained red carpets.

The whole place radiates muffled menace, mixed with the smell of cooking oil and cigarette smoke.

At any mention of the war years, staff members suddenly became mute or hostile. An otherwise friendly receptionist, asked about reports on the internet of the terrible crimes in 1992, bristled angrily, protesting that “the internet is full of lies” and “you can see everything is all fine here.”

Built in the 1980s before Yugoslavia, a multiethnic socialist state of which Bosnia was then part, disintegrated into war, Vilina Vlas is today owned by the Republika Srpska, a self-governing Serb region of Bosnia.

The region’s dominant politician, Milorad Dodik, has repeatedly denied Serb crimes in the 1990s, and even dedicated a student dormitory to Radovan Karadzic, the Serb wartime leader now serving a 40-year sentence after being convicted in 2016 of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.

Mr. Dodik, now the Serb member of Bosnia’s three-person presidency, visited Visegrad in October, ending his trip with a visit to the spa and a promise to invest $1.5 million in the facility to increase its appeal for tourists.

This summer the government of the Serb region started offering residents vouchers to redeem for free nights at Vilina Vlas and other spas in the area, which was largely “cleansed” of Muslim Bosnians during the war.

But Bosnian Muslims, also known as Bosniaks, have responded angrily to what they see as an effort to whitewash the spa’s gruesome past, an effort aided inadvertently by the American tech giant Google.

An online petition launched recently by a lecturer at the University of Sarajevo in the Bosnian capital demanded that Google “remove Vilina Vlas (as a tourist site)” from its search engine and map tool. Reviews listed by Google are nearly all favorable, with the former rape camp hailed as “absolutely fabulous,” “great for resting” and “very calming.”

“If somebody decided to turn Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camps into a wellness retreat perfect for a ‘relaxing weekend getaway,’ would you let them promote this on Google?” the petition, already signed by more than 26,000 people, asked. “Would you allow it to appear on Google Maps as a tourist facility?”

A Google spokesman said the company makes “every effort to objectively display the real world as much as possible,” adding that “this location is both a current business and a place that has historical significance.” An online search quickly produces information about its awful history.

Ms. Hasecic of the war victims’ association said Serb women in Visegrad had spoken with her privately about wartime atrocities by Serb extremists but “none can speak publicly” because of pressure to stay silent.

Bilal Memisevic, the only Muslim member of Visegrad’s town council, said he had been asking for years that the authorities put up a plaque at the hotel to commemorate the victims.

“We understand that the spa was and will be a magnet for tourists and are not asking for it to be shut down,” he said. “All we want is a single sentence on the wall saying: ‘At this site war crimes were committed between this date and that date.’”

But that, he added, has proved impossible because “the official position of Bosnian Serb leaders is to deny everything.”

Olivera Todorovic, the director of Visegrad’s tourism department and a stout defender of the view that accounts of wartime crimes at Vilina Vlas are “exaggerated and unfair,” said she wanted the whole issue to just go away so that visitors can enjoy the town’s other sites like a magnificent 16th-century bridge over the River Drina.

“We are trying to forget about the war years and develop tourism,” she said. “Why do we have to keep talking about the past?”





No.31 article:
Markets Throw a Welcome Party of Sorts for Biden

Wall Street notched records, as relief settled in that the election is over and Janet Yellen will be the Treasury secretary in the next administration.

A day after the Trump administration effectively acknowledged the election of Joseph R. Biden Jr., investors showed their relief by pushing the two major stock market indexes to all-time records on Tuesday.

It was a welcome party of sorts for Mr. Biden, but what investors were really embracing was the end of uncertainty. President-elect Biden has vowed to push for more stimulus to bolster the economy. His selection for Treasury secretary, Janet L. Yellen, is well known from her days as Federal Reserve chair. And several new coronavirus vaccine candidates mean that the pandemic could be under control in the months ahead.

President Trump, who on the campaign trail had warned that Mr. Biden’s election would lead to stock market armageddon, on Tuesday implied that the day’s highs were his own doing, making an unscheduled stop at a White House briefing to play up the latest gains in the Dow Jones industrial average.

“The stock market’s just broken 30,000 — never been broken, that number,” said Mr. Trump, who has often used the markets as a barometer of his presidency. “That’s a sacred number, 30,000; nobody thought they’d ever see it.” He added: “I just want to congratulate all the people within the administration that worked so hard. And most importantly, I want to congratulate the people of our country, because there are no people like you.”

Mr. Trump, who spoke for about 65 seconds, ignored questions from reporters about whether he would concede to Mr. Biden.

On Wall Street, the S&amp;P 500 stock index rose 1.6 percent to a new high of 3,635.41, while the Dow rose 1.5 percent, closing above 30,000 for the first time.

“We have an enormous amount of certainty that we didn’t have just a few months ago,” said Kristina Hooper, chief global market strategist at Invesco, an investment management firm.

The last few months have been a volatile stretch for investors. After hitting a peak on Sept. 2, the S&amp;P 500 began to fall, and — except for a brief uptick the following month — remained roughly 9 percent below the peak until the end of October.

One sign of investor anxiety was the volatility displayed in the VIX, an index widely known as Wall Street’s “fear gauge.” The VIX spiked by more than 50 percent in late October as the virus picked up again and the election approached. A meltdown of technology stocks added to the uncertainty. In the last week in October, stocks fell 5.6 percent, the biggest weekly drop since March. Still, stocks were up for the year at the end of last month.

And in the weeks since the election stocks have climbed steadily, primarily because of encouraging vaccine news. Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca have all announced that their vaccine candidates showed favorable results in trials. The S&amp;P 500 has risen roughly 8 percent since the election. Some investors believe that with Mr. Biden in the White House, and Republicans likely to retain control of the Senate, they could count on political gridlock to block tax increases that could roil the markets.

“You have a Biden administration likely governed by a split Congress and a conservative Supreme Court so it eliminates some of the most extreme policies either on the right or left,” said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors. “So markets are celebrating that.”

The good news about vaccines has bolstered stocks that had been hit hard by the outbreak. Stocks of airlines and oil companies have soared this month. United Airlines, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines have all climbed by more than 30 percent. The oil giant Chevron is up nearly 38 percent. The Russell 2000 — an index of smaller capitalization companies heavily influenced by the shorter-term outlook for the U.S. economy — is up more than 20 percent this month alone.

But many analysts believe that the market could have done even better without the political uncertainty about the outcome of the election. The president’s baseless claims that there was fraud in the election and that he would ultimately win a second term helped keep a lid on gains by injecting uncertainty into the markets.

The decision on Monday by Emily W. Murphy, the administrator of the General Services Administration, to allow the presidential transition process to move forward made investors feel confident that the election was finally over, Ms. Hooper said. “I think that was creating a significant overhang and raised questions about how long this would drag on,” she said.

Markets also appeared to welcome the return of politics as usual under a future Biden administration, and were reassured by the news that Ms. Yellen will be Mr. Biden’s nominee to head the Treasury Department. She is a known quantity on Wall Street, well respected for her steady leadership at the head of the central bank, from 2014 to 2018.

“There had been some fear that Mr. Biden would pick a Treasury secretary with a strong anti-Wall Street bias,” wrote analysts with High Frequency Economics in a client note on Tuesday. “Janet Yellen isn’t that.”

The markets performed well under Mr. Trump for the most part. Since his election in 2016, the S&amp;P 500 has returned more than 80 percent — including dividend payments. Most analysts credit the administration’s tax cuts — signed into law in 2017 — for a significant part of the gains.

But the last four years have also been a volatile period for markets, with multiple sharp, sudden downturns often linked to policies pushed by Mr. Trump, such as his trade war with China, which helped push stocks to a 6 percent loss in 2018.

This year, the more than 11-year-old bull market collapsed in March, as the S&amp;P 500 dove nearly 34 percent in a matter of weeks as the virus raged around the globe, before eventually climbing to new highs.

Mr. Trump’s style was often at odds with Wall Street’s preferences.

He broke with the tradition of virtually all other recent presidents in using the power of the bully pulpit to browbeat individual companies — including Boeing, Amazon, Ford and General Motors — for decisions he disliked, often sending their shares reeling in real time.

Even those on Wall Street who might have supported some of the president’s policies often said they could do without his constant Twitter missives weighing in on the markets. (Since his election in 2016 the president has tweeted or retweeted roughly 200 messages on the markets.)

“It always bothered me that the president tweeted about the markets,” said Paul Schatz, who manages roughly $90 million in assets for clients largely in New York, Connecticut and Florida. “As an investment adviser in charge of taking care of people’s money, I would rather the president would not wade into those waters.”





No.32 article:
College Basketball Is Starting. Some Coaches Are Openly Asking Why.

There will be 100-plus games happening on Wednesday, as health officials urge the rest of us not to travel while the coronavirus surges.

In non-pandemic times, the men’s college basketball season would announce its arrival by poking up from under the college football blanket with familiar look-at-me events — a Madison Square Garden doubleheader here, a Maui Invitational there.

This year is understandably quite different.

The tub-thumping games will be in a Connecticut casino and the Dakota hinterlands, and the usual slow roll to the start of the season — which was kicked back two weeks — looks more like a release-the-hounds opening with over 100 games scheduled to be played on Wednesday.

Not that such exuberance counts for much in a pandemic, which has been busy offering a back-in-your-place back of the hand to those who figured the show could — or must — go on amid another wave of the coronavirus. There has been a daily average of more than 173,000 new cases over the past week in the United States, and the college basketball world has not been immune.

Take Monday, for example. In a matter of hours, Tennessee canceled two games after Coach Rick Barnes and others tested positive for the virus; Duke and Georgia quashed games against Gardner-Webb after the team reported a case; the powerhouse Connecticut women’s team postponed its first four games and suspended all activities because of a positive virus test; Mississippi canceled a four-team event on its campus; and Utah called off its opening game after Coach Larry Krystkowiak, speaking from an apartment above his garage on a weekly radio show, reported that he had contracted the virus.

(Deep breath here.)

Wichita State, which pushed out Coach Gregg Marshall last week (with a $7.5 million parachute) after reports of abusive behavior, landed in Sioux Falls, S.D., just in time to learn that several team members had tested positive. It pulled out of an eight-team tournament.

(Another heave.)

Arizona State, which flew across the country on Monday, did so only after finding out that its opponent — Baylor, ranked No. 2 in The Associated Press poll — had reversed course and agreed to drop out of the Empire Classic, at the Mohegan Sun Casino in Uncasville, Conn., because Coach Scott Drew had tested positive. When Arizona State was in the air, a new opponent was procured: Rhode Island.

“It’s not the way you want to start a season,” said Val Ackerman, the Big East Conference commissioner. “This notion of trying to start the season with a bang is very real. Going into the season in a defensive crouch is a very tough thing.”

The organizers of the two large-scale events may be feeling acute leg cramps by now. The Bad Boy Mowers Crossover Classic — an incarnation of the Battle 4 Atlantis in the Bahamas, with frozen tundra standing in for sandy beaches — is in South Dakota, which has the highest current hospitalization rates in the United States and the fewest restrictions of any state. Six of the eight teams originally in the tournament have bailed and been replaced, and on Monday tournament organizers scuttled plans to allow fans.

At the Mohegan Sun, there are plans for six tournaments involving 40 teams that will play 45 games in 11 days in something the casino is calling Bubbleville.

The surface tension, though, is rapidly building. The first game, at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, was to feature the University of San Francisco (a fill-in, chosen Friday, for St. Bonaventure) against Towson University. At least until Monday night, when U.S.F. was moved to an 11 a.m. game against Stephen F. Austin. By Tuesday afternoon, that game was scratched and San Francisco was moved to a 4 p.m. game against UMass-Lowell, which just returned from a 14-day pause because of the virus.

This burst of games and the attendant travel — some of which will happen on commercial flights — come at a time when universities are urging their non-basketball-playing students to exercise great caution as they head home for Thanksgiving.

Among those wondering how long a season can go on like this is Rick Pitino.

He returned in March from exile, after a recruiting scandal at Louisville, to coach at Iona and was spending Tuesday in quarantine, just like a number of his colleagues. (Syracuse’s Jim Boeheim, who had contracted the virus, was doing fine, but Tennessee Tech’s John Pelphrey was hurting, Pitino reported.) Iona can begin practice on Wednesday at the end of a 14-day hiatus due to a manager’s positive test. No Gaels coaches or players have contracted the virus, but the rules are the rules — at least in New Rochelle, N.Y..

Not so in Mississippi, where Coach Kermit Davis tested positive, but the players were allowed to continue practicing — at least until some tested positive and the team paused workouts on Monday. Or, apparently, in Utah: The Salt Lake Tribune reported that Krystkowiak was among “at least nine” positive cases within the program but that workouts have continued. (The 14-day pause is a guideline adopted by the N.C.A.A. from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but colleges are allowed to defer to local health protocols.)

Pitino believes that, with vaccines being readied and flu season just arriving, the best way to rescue college basketball’s moneymaker — the N.C.A.A. tournament — may be to move the season back. He suggests starting the season in March and ending it with May Madness.

“Hospitals are being overrun, we’re at 200,000 cases a day,” Pitino said in an interview. “We’re not the N.B.A. — we don’t have $150 million to protect us in a bubble; we’re not college football and can play in an open-air facility. Interruptions are going to be quite substantial. There are 15 or 20 coaches that have tested positive, and we’re just entering winter. It’s going to be very difficult to manage a good product and keep everybody safe.”

Any sort of pivot for college basketball could be cleaner than the one in football: Four conferences — the Big Ten, the Pac-12, the Mountain West and the Mid-American — postponed and then reinstated fall football seasons.

But whereas major college football does not have a central governing body, the N.C.A.A. controls the basketball tournaments. The payouts to universities from the men’s tournament last year were supposed to total $600 million before the event was canceled; the payments were slashed by two-thirds in March.

The N.C.A.A. announced last week that it would hold the entire men’s tournament in a single city — it is in discussions with Indianapolis — but that it plans to do so as scheduled, over three weekends starting in March, and that it would not follow the suggestion of Atlantic Coast Conference coaches to let in all 357 Division I teams.

Dedrique Taylor, the coach at Cal State Fullerton, said he had woken up each morning during the pandemic with the same thought: Is today the day?

Last Thursday turned out to be. His team was 90 minutes into practice when the trainer entered Titan Gym with news that a player had tested positive. Taylor told team members to gather their belongings and that they would begin a 14-day quarantine. He spoke with them on a videoconference that night, allowing the players to vent. The next day, the University of Washington tournament they had entered was canceled.

Taylor said that in the normal rhythms of a season, coaches want their teams to build toward playing at their best in March, just as the Titans did when they reached the N.C.A.A. tournament in 2018.

Now, though, instability will be baked in — along with many questions. He wonders about injury risks when players return from quarantine, about whether the country will loosen up or lock down and how he can support his players and assistants.

As he spoke on the phone Monday, with the college basketball season about to embark, he mostly wondered why.

“I don’t understand why we’re playing or why we’re opening up when we’re trying to do away with the virus,” Taylor said, expressing concern about widespread weariness over pandemic-related restrictions. “We’re almost encouraging the virus by bringing people together. I’d rather be fatigued than freaking dead.”





No.33 article:
Trump Is Said to Plan Pardon of Flynn

The expected pardon of President Trump’s former national security adviser, who twice pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I., is said to be one of a string Mr. Trump plans to issue before leaving office.

President Trump has told aides that he plans to pardon his former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn and that it is one of a string of pardons he plans to issue before leaving office, a person familiar with the discussions said on Tuesday.

Mr. Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general, twice pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his conversations with a Russian diplomat during the presidential transition in late 2016 and early 2017. He was the only former White House official to plead guilty in the inquiry led by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s election interference.

In May, the Justice Department sought to withdraw its charges against Mr. Flynn. That move has since been tied up in federal court, challenged by the judge who presided over Mr. Flynn’s case, Emmet G. Sullivan.

Mr. Trump’s plans were reported earlier by Axios.

Mr. Flynn, 61, served just 24 days as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser before the president fired him in February 2017 for lying about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak.

Mr. Flynn changed his legal team last year and began seeking to withdraw his guilty plea, claiming he never lied to investigators and was the target in January 2017 of what his lawyers in court papers called an “ambush-interview” by F.B.I. agents seeking to entrap him. He has since become a hero figure on the pro-Trump right, portrayed as a decorated patriot victimized by the politically motivated Russia “hoax” investigation of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump, who initially distanced himself from Mr. Flynn after his firing, has since taken up his cause, calling him “an innocent man” targeted by Obama administration officials trying to “take down a president.”

“What happened to General Michael Flynn, a war hero, should never be allowed to happen to a citizen of the United States again!” Mr. Trump tweeted in April, weeks before the Justice Department sought to withdraw its charges. After the department acted, Mr. Trump tweeted his approval, writing on May 8, “Yesterday was a BIG day for Justice in the USA.”

In a late September hearing before Judge Sullivan, a lawyer for Mr. Flynn, Sidney Powell, reluctantly admitted that she had recently spoken to Mr. Trump about the case, but said she had asked the president not to pardon her client.

Ms. Powell has appeared alongside lawyers for Mr. Trump, including Rudolph W. Giuliani, to press an unfounded case of election fraud. But after Ms. Powell floated a set of particularly wild claims, Mr. Giuliani and another lawyer representing the Trump campaign, Jenna Ellis, said in an abrupt statement on Sunday that Ms. Powell “is not a member of the Trump legal team.”

Mr. Flynn has been awaiting a ruling from Judge Sullivan on the Justice Department’s motion to withdraw its charges. The motion raised alarms among career prosecutors about political influence at the department.

Mr. Flynn has said he does not recall his conversations with Mr. Kislyak. But transcripts declassified in May show that they were extensive, and that in three phone calls the men discussed how Washington and Moscow might improve ties; how Russia should respond to punitive actions by the departing Obama administration in response to Russia’s election interference; and a United Nations resolution to condemn Israeli settlements on the West Bank.

Many departing presidents have issued pardons and commutations near the end of their terms. Former President Bill Clinton drew particularly harsh criticism over his pardon of a wealthy Democratic donor in his final White House hours. But Democrats and legal experts fear that Mr. Trump will exercise his pardon power with a brazenness that shatters past precedent — possibly even by prospectively pardoning himself.

Mr. Trump has already commuted the sentence of Roger J. Stone Jr., another associate ensnared in the Russia investigation who was convicted on seven felony counts and was to begin a 40-month term in federal prison.

A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on reporting that Mr. Trump has told confidants that he plans to pardon Mr. Flynn.

While presidents have traditionally consulted the department on pardons and commutations, they do not need approval from the department in order to issue them. In general, Mr. Trump has neither consulted with the department nor pardoned people who have been vetted by the department’s pardons office.

Word of Mr. Trump’s intentions came on a day the president presided over the annual White House turkey pardon. Mr. Trump ignored shouted questions from reporters in the Rose Garden about whether he planned actual pardons before leaving office.





No.34 article:
Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Dua Lipa Dominate 2021 Grammy Nominations

The major categories include some surprising, lesser-known names and notable absences as a Recording Academy in transition plans its pandemic awards show.

Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Dua Lipa dominate the nominations for the 63rd annual Grammy Awards, leading a diverse if somewhat scattershot collection of artists for January’s edition of music’s top awards show.

Beyoncé, with the most nods overall, received nine nominations in eight categories, including both record and song of the year for “Black Parade,” a track released during the height of the Black Lives Matter protests this summer with lyrics like “Put your fists up in the air, show Black love.” In the best record category, Beyoncé will compete against herself as the featured guest on Megan Thee Stallion’s hit “Savage.”

Swift, whose last two LPs received minimal attention from the Grammys — and did not win any prizes — got six nominations, including five for “Folklore,” the blockbuster album she recorded during the coronavirus pandemic. “Folklore” is up for album of the year and best pop vocal album, and her song “Cardigan” got two nods, including song of the year. She even got a nomination for “Beautiful Ghosts,” a song she wrote with Andrew Lloyd Webber for the much-maligned film version of “Cats.”

Lipa, the British dance-pop star who won best new artist in 2019, is up for album of the year for “Future Nostalgia,” while her disco-tinged “Don’t Start Now” was nominated for both record and song of the year. (The record category recognizes the performer and producers of a single track, while best song is for songwriters.)

Other top nominees for next year’s show, which is scheduled for Jan. 31, include the rapper Roddy Ricch, with six in four categories, and Brittany Howard, the frontwoman and guitarist of the band Alabama Shakes, with five for her solo debut. Billie Eilish, the 18-year-old auteur who swept the most recent awards, and the rappers Megan Thee Stallion and DaBaby each got four.

But while the Grammys in recent years have made significant progress in reflecting the tides of current pop music, the latest crop of nominations includes some puzzling choices and snubs.

The Weeknd, the Canadian pop star whose “After Hours” is one of the biggest albums of the year — and who will perform at the Super Bowl halftime show in February — was spurned entirely, as was Luke Combs, perhaps the most successful young hitmaker in Nashville. The Weeknd spoke out with a cryptic post across his social media channels on Tuesday night. “The Grammys remain corrupt,” he wrote. “You owe me, my fans and the industry transparency …” In response, Harvey Mason Jr. of the Recording Academy said in a statement that he “was surprised and can empathize with what he’s feeling.” He also denied that the Weeknd’s lack of nominations was a retaliation against the singer for performing at the Super Bowl, as floated in some theories online.

BTS, the K-pop phenomenon, received its first nomination down the ballot in the best pop duo/group category, a placement sure to be noticed by the group’s huge and protective fan base. A posthumous album by the rap star Pop Smoke that has been one of the year’s biggest chart hits also received just one notice: best rap performance for his song “Dior.”

The major categories are dotted with artists who are far from household names. Black Pumas, a rock band with a retro soul sound — but little public profile — is up for record of the year (“Colors”) and best album, for a deluxe version of its self-titled debut LP. (The original version, released in June 2019, fell outside the awards’ eligibility window, which covers music that came out from September 2019 to August 2020.)

The makeup of live awards shows has been changing throughout the pandemic, with little apparent consensus among producers about how to put an event together. The Billboard Music Awards in October, for example, had no live audience, but the American Music Awards this week had a limited crowd (as well as cardboard cutouts of Beyoncé and Jay-Z).

How the Grammys, music’s biggest awards show, will handle its broadcast is unclear. In an interview, Mason, a producer and songwriter who is the chairman and interim chief executive of the Recording Academy, the nonprofit behind the Grammys, said the organization intended to hold a live event in Los Angeles with a small audience, and that artists would be present to perform and accept awards. Many details are still being worked out; Trevor Noah, from “The Daily Show,” will be the host.

The nominations reflect a challenging year for the music industry, in which live performances were ground to a halt by the pandemic and artists have wrestled with social upheaval and a bitterly divisive election.

There has also been tumult behind the scenes at the academy, which has come under fire for its poor record in recognizing Black artists and women in the major awards. The academy also had an explosive conflict with its former chief executive, Deborah Dugan, who accused the organization of tolerating sexual harassment and of violating the integrity of its nominations process.

The academy has denied those accusations, and has made a number of efforts over the last year to diversify its ranks, including inviting more than 2,300 new members; 74 percent accepted the invitation to join. Mason said an expanded membership is key to making the awards reflect the true state of music.

“This is a peer-to-peer award,” he said. “Whoever gets the votes wins. So we have to make sure that the people who are voting are knowledgeable and representative of the music, and are voting with the intent of recognizing and honoring quality music.”

Last January, five months after she took over with a mandate to change the academy’s status quo and just 10 days before the Grammys event, Dugan was removed from her post, and later terminated. The academy said she had mistreated an underling. In a legal complaint, Dugan denied that accusation and said that her dismissal was retaliation for documenting a range of misconduct and other problems at the organization, including excessive legal fees and conflicts of interest by board members.

Mason declined to comment about the pending arbitration process between the academy and Dugan, as did a lawyer for Dugan.

For the latest Grammy Awards, the crop of nominees includes many women and artists of color. But that has also been the case for several years now, and the true test of change at the Grammys may be who ultimately wins.

Reaction to the news was mixed. BTS fans celebrated the group’s first nomination but griped that the boy band was shut out of the major categories.

And in an Instagram post, Justin Bieber, who received four nods, including best pop vocal album for “Changes,” complained that he was not nominated in an R&amp;B category. “I am very meticulous &amp; intentional about my music,” Bieber wrote. “With that being said I set out to make an R&amp;B album. Changes is an R&amp;B album. It is not being acknowledged as an R&amp;B album which is very strange to me.” (He added, “Please don’t mistake this as me being ungrateful.”)

In addition to Swift, Lipa and Black Pumas, the nominations for album of the year include Post Malone’s “Hollywood’s Bleeding,” a major streaming hit; Haim’s “Women in Music Pt. III”; “Chilombo” by Jhené Aiko; Coldplay’s “Everyday Life”; and “Djesse Vol. 3,” a project by the British multi-instrumentalist Jacob Collier.

Also up for record of the year are DaBaby’s breakthrough hit “Rockstar,” featuring Ricch, which gained extra currency with a Black Lives Matter-themed remix; “Say So” by the rapper, singer and internet firebrand Doja Cat; Eilish’s “Everything I Wanted”; and Post Malone’s “Circles.”

In the song of the year category, “Black Parade,” “Cardigan” and “Don’t Stop Now” will go up against “Circles,” “Everything I Wanted,” Ricch’s hit “The Box,” H.E.R.’s “I Can’t Breathe” and “If the World Was Ending,” by JP Saxe with Julia Michaels, whose popularity on TikTok helped it become a streaming hit.

In the best new artist category, Megan Thee Stallion and Doja Cat will compete with Phoebe Bridgers, Ingrid Andress, Chika, D Smoke, Kaytranada and Noah Cyrus, a sister of Miley.

In other contests, the best alternative album category will pit Fiona Apple (“Fetch the Bolt Cutters”) against Bridgers (“Punisher”), Howard (“Jaime”), Beck (“Hyperspace”) and Tame Impala (“The Slow Rush”).

No matter who wins best country album, a woman will take home the prize: nominees include Andress (“Lady Like”), Miranda Lambert (“Wildcard”), Ashley McBryde (“Never Will”), Brandy Clark (“Your Life Is a Record”) and the male-and-female group Little Big Town (“Nightfall”).

Several categories were adjusted over the last year, in ways that intersected with the social justice debates that have been bubbling through the industry.

The world music category was named best global music album to avoid what the academy considered “connotations of colonialism, folk and ‘non-American.’” Nominees include Bebel Gilberto, Anoushka Shankar, Antibalas, Burna Boy and Tinariwen.

Over the summer, as the music industry wrestled with issues of race, the academy announced that it had renamed urban contemporary as progressive R&amp;B. That change predated the industry’s most recent discussions, but the connotations of “urban” have long been debated, including at the Grammys.

Nominees for best progressive R&amp;B album — which, according to the academy’s peculiar musicology, “may include samples and elements of hip-hop, rap, dance and electronic music” as well as “production elements found in pop, euro-pop, country, rock, folk and alternative” — are Aiko, Chloe x Halle, Free Nationals, Robert Glasper and Thundercat.

The nominations for this year’s 83 categories were winnowed down from more than 23,000 submissions — an uptick from the 21,000 that were submitted for the 62nd annual ceremony, suggesting that musicians have focused on recording work in the absence of live opportunities during quarantine.

One category was affected by the pandemic, however. The nominations for best immersive audio album — formerly known as best surround sound album — were delayed because, according to a Recording Academy spokeswoman, the panel of specialists who review those recordings considered virtual meetings but decided that “there was not a way to judge all the entries in a thorough manner that does justice to the entries and was safe for the committee members.”

The entries for that category will be taken up again next year, but judged separately from the 64th annual submissions.





No.35 article:
No, President Trump Did Not Pardon Himself

Speculation had swirled in recent days that the president might make incendiary news by pardoning humans, but Corn and Cob got the honors at the annual White House ceremony.

WASHINGTON — This might have been the most anticipated White House turkey-pardoning ceremony ever.

For starters, President Trump has been scarcely seen without golf clubs since Election Day. So the annual ritual of sparing two turkeys offered a rare chance to glimpse the lame-duck leader in public.

“Thanksgiving is a very special day for turkeys,” the president said in the Rose Garden on Tuesday afternoon. “Not a very good one, if you think about it.” Except for two fortunate feathered recipients of the president’s largess.

It felt almost normal, refreshingly pro forma. With a zest for showmanship, Mr. Trump had always seemed in his element on these cornball occasions, no matter what other turmoil happened to be upending his presidency at the moment.

But Mr. Trump’s recent reclusiveness had also given the festivities a measure of Groundhog Day drama: Would the Punxsutawney President strike a light and conciliatory tone, signaling a mild period of transition into the Biden administration? Or would he continue with the defiant and rancorous posture he has exhibited in the more than 550 tweets he has unleashed since Nov. 3, ensuring several more disruptive weeks of a presidency in dark winter?

The cliffhanger infused the hokey White House tradition with genuine theatrics — just as the master of ceremonies relishes. Speculation had swirled in recent days that the president might make incendiary news by pardoning humans like Paul Manafort (his former campaign chairman, convicted of tax and bank fraud) along with his innocent feathered friends Corn and Cob (imported from Iowa, 42 and 41 pounds, with 35- and 34-inch wingspans).

If nothing else, the spectacle offered a respite from the daily onslaught of Mr. Trump’s legal challenges, as well as the carefully produced announcements of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s new cabinet officials — several of whom were being introduced in Wilmington, Del., as the president and the first lady, Melania Trump, were making their way out to the Rose Garden at about 2:30 p.m.

The president began by announcing again that the Dow Jones industrial average had broken 30,000 for the first time. (He had first announced it an hour and a half earlier in an appearance in the White House briefing room that lasted barely a minute.) Although the market appeared to be reacting to the General Services Administration’s decision on Monday night that the transition to the Biden administration could formally begin, Mr. Trump wrapped himself in the news.

“I just want to congratulate everybody,” Mr. Trump said, a throwback to the pre-election days, when he would boast constantly about the performance of the stock market, as if it offered some running testimonial to his performance in office.

Voters have since rendered a harsher verdict. Recent weeks have, by all accounts, been difficult for a president whose self-definition as a “winner” has been dented by a battering of courtroom defeats, rising vote deficits and scattered abandonment from former Republican allies.

At the very least, the White House turkey tradition offered the comfort of ritual. It was started by President Truman in 1947, though President Kennedy was the first to spare the honored bird. President Bush was the first to officially use the word “pardon” in 1989.

Mr. Trump wore a navy blue overcoat and bright red tie in the chill of the late November afternoon. He made no mention of the election or the president-elect. He seemed slightly subdued but for the most part in decent spirits.

He described this as “a time that is very unusual,” which seemed apt enough.

“We’re here to continue a beloved annual tradition,” the president said, ushering in the featured, feathered portion of the ceremony.

He mentioned that Corn and Cob had been selected from a presidential flock that included some “real beauties” and noted that they came from Iowa.

“I love the state of Iowa,” Mr. Trump said, by way of buttering up the home of the butterballs. (He is said to be considering a comeback campaign in 2024.)

“We love our farmers,” he added, for good measure.

After a few minutes, the president and the first lady stepped out from behind the Rose Garden podium and approached the guest of honor.

“Look at that beautiful, beautiful bird,” Mr. Trump marveled as he gestured toward Corn, who was perched a few feet away. (Cob was not immediately visible to onlookers.)

“Oh, that is a lucky bird,” he continued. “Wow.”

“Thank you, Corn,” Mr. Trump said as he briefly laid his forgiving hand upon the rich white plume of his beneficiary.

The president and the first lady waved to the friendly crowd as they took leave of Corn, who at that moment did manage a brief serenade of gobbles.

Mr. Trump flashed a thumbs-up for the cameras and did not respond to two shouted questions from reporters: one about whether he might invite Mr. Biden for a White House visit and the other about whether he might soon be pardoning himself.

At this same event last year, the president had said that “I expect this pardon will be a very popular one with the media. After all, turkeys are closely related to vultures.”

In other words, Mr. Trump had likened reporters to vultures.





No.36 article:
Divvy Homes Says Rent-to-Own Deals Work. Next Year Will Be a Test.

Portraying itself as a good guy in a seedy corner of home sales, Divvy has received mixed early reviews. But the bulk of its clients will soon have to decide whether to buy or back out.

With high eviction rates, substandard properties and shady legal practices, rent-to-own home businesses are one of the darkest corners of the real-estate world. Financially vulnerable people seeking a piece of the American dream often end up swindled for money and property improvements, then booted on to the street.

Divvy Homes, founded three years ago and backed by highflying Silicon Valley investors, has said it aims to change all that.

Instead of offering clients a meager selection of rundown homes to pick from, Divvy allows them to select a property on the open market. The sale price is locked in at the start of the lease, and they can get a discount for buying early. And would-be homeowners are offered services to help them get the mortgage they’ll need, while Divvy holds on to the extra money they put aside each month for a down payment.

Already, some once-wary clients are convinced. “We did some research on it because we were skeptical and worried we might get scammed,” said Nash Alexander, who closed on his home earlier this year.

Now Divvy is entering a crucial year. Its first round of three-year leases will soon expire, and those clients must make buy or back-out decisions. Some customers, like Mr. Nash, have closed on their homes ahead of schedule and see Divvy as making good on its promise of offering a new path to homeownership.

But Divvy is also showing a few of the industry’s familiar warts. Some clients complain of high costs and maintenance problems. In one area, Divvy is as likely to have sold to an outside buyer as to the tenant who picked out the home. And the company has been involved in several dozen eviction cases, although many were eventually resolved or stayed because of eviction moratoriums put in place as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.

The pains and the progress Divvy has made are typified by the experiences of two educators in two cities.

Mr. Alexander, a teacher in Atlanta, couldn’t be happier. He and his wife, Pam, closed on their home 15 months ahead of schedule, for $172,000. Heavy spending in recent years meant they needed more time to assemble a down payment, and by buying early in their lease they netted a $10,000 discount.

“We went in with the expectation that we would not be leasing from them for the full three years,” he said.

But Thomas Weaver, a private-school teacher who lives in the Cleveland suburb of South Euclid and filed for bankruptcy in 2017, has nothing but complaints: The $1,430 monthly payment is far too high, the company dragged its feet and cheaped out on problems with leaks and mice, and the entire experience wasn’t worth the hassle, even if he will get back much of the money he put toward the purchase.

“We are going to pay about $55,000 in rent over three years,” Mr. Weaver said. In walking away from the home, he added, “we don’t get anything to show for that,” he said.

Since it was founded in 2017, Divvy has earned acclaim as a member of a vanguard of companies aimed at people who have been cut out of traditional lending. With the backing of investors like the Silicon Valley venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and Caffeinated Capital, as well as a Singaporean sovereign wealth fund, Divvy has grown rapidly, now renting more than 1,500 homes in nine markets, including Atlanta, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Memphis and Phoenix. The company hopes to convert about half its renters into homeowners by the time its first round of leases expires.

Frank Ford, a senior policy adviser with the Western Reserve Land Conservancy who has focused on housing issues in the Cleveland area, said that would be a considerable accomplishment, since Divvy’s clients often lack good credit histories. And, Mr. Ford said, Divvy has “avoided the worst abuses” of an industry that has grown in popularity since the 2008 financial crisis.

Rent-to-own firms fill a niche in lower-income communities, where so-called small dollar mortgages are hard to come by. But they often market rundown homes picked up on the cheap, and the worst firms — some of which have been fined and sanctioned by state attorneys general — are quick to evict renters and reap the benefits of improvements made by hopeful clients.

Divvy has portrayed itself as the good guy in an industry one of the company’s founders, Adena Hefets, acknowledged has “a terrible reputation.”

And the economic destruction of the pandemic is driving demand up, she said.

“I thought it would be the end of the world,” said Ms. Hefets, 33, who expected housing prices to drop and mass foreclosures that haven’t materialized. “Right now, we are doing more volume than we’ve ever done. It’s been crazy.”

Ms. Hefets, who is also Divvy’s chief executive, said the company is essentially a “savings mechanism” for its clients. They pay above-market rent, with the premium going toward maintenance costs and an eventual down payment. If the renter does buy the property, Divvy pockets a profit on the sale on top of the rent it collected. If the renter decides not to buy — or still can’t qualify for a mortgage — Divvy returns the extra cash the renter paid toward equity, minus a “surrender fee” of 2 percent of the original purchase price.

For renters like Janese Scott, the higher payments are motivation. Ms. Scott, 27, bought for her house in Lithonia, Ga., for $133,000 in June, just five months after she started making monthly rent payments. Those payments were $1,520: $1,220 for rent and maintenance, and $300 toward equity.

“Financially, it doesn’t make that much sense to be paying so much,” said Ms. Scott, a Verizon sales executive with a 6-year-old daughter. Her new monthly payment — a mortgage at 2.75 percent, plus costs for insurance — is only $895.

But Divvy hasn’t always lived up to the expectations of renters, and at least one local official, even though it charges clients extra for upkeep.

Divvy allowed a renter to move into one Ohio home without first correcting a half-dozen property code violations, said Sally Martin, South Euclid’s housing director. Problems with wiring in the basement and drainage and ventilation in a bathroom have taken a year to sort out, she said. A final inspection is scheduled for next month. 

“Divvy, by their own admission, did not do well on this transaction and is behind the eight ball when it comes to getting this up to code,” Ms. Martin said in an email.  She said Divvy’s decision to buy a house in need of substantial work appeared to be at odds with the company’s business model — which “only works if the house is in good condition.”

Ms. Hefets, the Divvy chief executive, said the company ensures the safety and habitability of the property and allows tenants to pick out a home only within a price range it believes they can afford. It takes other steps to help clients, too, she said, including paying for credit counseling and reporting only on-time rent payments to credit bureaus to help bolster renters’ credit scores.

Divvy’s willingness to help, Ms. Hefets said, has grown during the pandemic. “We monitor our customers’ ability to pay, and try to support them through rental assistance programs, being flexible on scheduling, and trying to reduce rent obligations where we can,” she said.

But the company’s largess extends only so far. Before various moratoriums took effect across the country, Divvy had initiated dozens of eviction actions. Ms. Hefets said the company had little choice after tenants did not respond to notices.

“Our goal is to have as few evictions as possible,” she said.

The company can take unpaid rent out of the tenant’s accumulated equity, but it does not impose any additional penalties if an eviction takes place, Ms. Hefets said.

“Our intentions are to be fair and help customers move on where this isn’t a good fit,” she said.

The company declined to say how many homes it had sold to clients or how many customers it had evicted, but not every renter reaches the end of his lease, whether by choice or not.

The company has bought about 200 homes in the Cleveland area. It had resold 16 as of the end of September, but almost half went to buyers who were not previously renting the houses, according to interviews with several buyers and a review of local property records. That’s very likely an indication that the renters decided to not buy the home, or were evicted.

The fates of the renters who reach the end of their leases in the coming year will provide a test of whether Divvy really has come up with a consumer-friendly alternative to traditional home buying. And Mr. Ford, of the Western Reserve Land Conservancy, said the company’s good intentions would ultimately be at the mercy of its business savvy.

“It is almost like they are attempting to fulfill a not-for-profit mission through a for-profit business,” he said.





No.37 article:
Quotation of the Day: It Was a Rape Camp. Now It’s a Spa That Depends on Amnesia.

“There is not a single bed in this place on which a woman was not raped or killed.”

BAKIRA HASECIC, a Bosnian Muslim who fled her village near the Vilina Vlas spa, in 1992. The hotel, which was the site of atrocities during the Bosnia war, now promotes itself as a forest health retreat.





No.38 article:
A Great Election, Against All Odds

Democracy is hard work. That work paid off.

The 2020 election was not simply free of fraud, or whatever cooked-up malfeasance the president is braying about at this hour. It was, from an administrative standpoint, a resounding success. In the face of a raging pandemic and the highest turnout in more than a century, Americans enjoyed one of the most secure, most accurate and most well-run elections ever.

Don’t take our word for it. Listen to the state and local officials of both parties in dozens of states who were tasked with overseeing the process.

“Numbers don’t lie,” Georgia’s Republican secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, said on Friday when he certified his state’s vote total following a hand recount of about five million ballots. Joe Biden won Georgia by a little more than 12,000 votes.

Same story in Michigan. “We have not seen any evidence of fraud or foul play in the actual administration of the election,’’ said a spokesman for the Democratic secretary of state there. “What we have seen is that it was smooth, transparent, secure and accurate.”

Over all, the 2020 election “was the most secure in American history,” according to a statement put out this month by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is made up of top federal and state election officials. “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.”

A bipartisan consensus like this may tempt some people to conclude that the dire pre-election warnings were overblown, that the risks to the election were never that serious. The reality is the opposite. The threats were many and real. There were massive logistical hurdles to running an election during a deadly disease outbreak. There was chaos sown deliberately by a sitting president to undermine Americans’ faith in the integrity of the democratic process. There was good reason to fear an electoral meltdown.

That the meltdown didn’t materialize was thanks to months of hard work and selfless commitment by tens of thousands of Americans across the country: state and local elections officials, volunteer poll workers, overburdened postal carriers, helpful neighbors and generous philanthropists.

Together, this ad hoc democracy-protection network fanned out to expand access to mail-in ballots, helping more than 100 million Americans, nearly two-thirds of all voters, to vote early or absentee. They took on poll worker shifts so that older Americans would not have to risk their lives to keep precincts open. They volunteered time to ensure votes would be counted as quickly and accurately as possible. It was a heroic effort, and the people who worked its front lines deserve Americans’ everlasting gratitude.

It is neither wise nor realistic to count on this sort of mobilization happening every four years. “The smoothness of the election was not self-executing,” said Vanita Gupta, the president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, an organization that supports voting rights. “Don’t lose sight of how much work we did to make it this way.”

The nation will need to prioritize voting rights and election administration to a degree it has never adequately done. For example, why are Americans still waiting for hours in line to cast their ballots? In 2014, a bipartisan commission said no one ought to have to wait more than 30 minutes to vote. Six years on, the country is nowhere close to that goal.

The solutions are not a mystery. Here are three of the most obvious ones.

More money. In the first wave of the pandemic last spring, elections experts and officials pleaded with Congress to provide up to $4 billion to help ensure a smooth election. Lawmakers approved one-tenth of that amount. “We get what we pay for,” said Justin Levitt, an election law scholar at Loyola Law School. “We poured trillions into pandemic recovery, and a teaspoonful into the democracy that makes it work.”

Some of the shortfall was made up by private philanthropists, who gave hundreds of millions of dollars to state and local governments. Professional sports teams offered up their empty arenas so voters could safely cast ballots in person. Donors provided masks and other protective gear for poll workers. All of that was welcome, and yet the American people pay taxes for just this purpose; they shouldn’t have to rely on the beneficence of the wealthy to keep their democracy intact.

Less voter suppression. It wasn’t so long ago that both parties supported the protection of voting rights. In 2006, Congress overwhelmingly voted to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act. Today, the Republican Party is awash in conspiracy theories and — there’s no other way to put it — fundamentally distrusts the American electorate.

In hundreds of lawsuits filed over voting and election procedures in 2020 — the most ever in an election season — Republicans consistently sided against voters. In too many cases, the courts let them have their way. They blocked reasonable, targeted measures to make voting easier during the pandemic, like extending ballot-arrival deadlines or increasing the number of drop boxes.

President Trump has spent the past five years building a fantasy world in which he can lose only because the other side cheated, and far too many people are content to live in it. In the absence of a whit of evidence, a majority of Republicans say they believe Joe Biden’s victory is the result of fraud. That’s why Mr. Raffensperger, a committed Republican, is being punished for his defense of Georgia’s electoral process with everything from death threats to a potentially illegal request by Senator Lindsey Graham, a top Republican, who Mr. Raffensperger said tried to persuade him to throw out legally cast ballots.

The United States needs members of both major political parties to support voting rights and access to the polls — not just because they believe it helps democracy, but because they believe it helps them.

Thwart disinformation. America needs a far more aggressive and coordinated response to the massive disinformation campaigns polluting social media and people’s dialogue with one another.

Social-media giants like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube did more in 2020 to combat these campaigns than ever before, and yet it wasn’t nearly enough. When a lie can race around the globe in minutes, anything less than an immediate response is too slow. The labels applied to misleading or factually untrue content were often vague, and did not necessarily refute the disinformation.

Also, it’s obvious that most of the disinformation right now is coming from one side of the political spectrum. Social media companies need to confront that reality head-on and stop worrying about being called biased. That’s especially important when it comes to the accounts of high-profile figures like President Trump, who have the power to deceive huge numbers of Americans with a single tweet.

Democracy is a fragile thing, and it requires constant tending and vigilance to survive. Americans were lucky this time. They were also well prepared. When pushed to the brink, they mobilized to protect their democracy. For this moment, at least, tune out the president, his flailing dishonesty and his bottomless disregard for the American experiment. Instead, express gratitude to the millions of Americans who still believe in that experiment, and who did all they could to make this election succeed in the face of daunting odds. Then help make sure they don’t have to do it by themselves again.





No.39 article:
How South Korea’s Flu Vaccine Scare Offers Lessons for Other Nations

Officials and scientists fought misinformation with data and clear communication — offering a game plan for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, experts say.

SEOUL, South Korea — The deaths were mounting, and so were the public’s fears.

South Korea had vastly expanded its flu vaccine program to cover millions more people, to prevent a one-two punch to its health system as the coronavirus spread globally. But as the injections got underway, reports of deaths started popping up.

South Korean scientists quickly determined that the deaths were unrelated to the flu shots. But they worried that if they didn’t stop the panic, the public might shun the vaccines altogether.

So health officials doubled down — and, in the process, gave the world a game plan for when coronavirus vaccines become widely available.

They ramped up efforts to communicate with the public. They disclosed data on what was found. And they quickly got the vaccination campaign back on track, at a time when scientists dealing with Covid-19 are increasingly worried about the rise of the anti-vaccine movement.

“South Korea is doing everything right,” said Dr. Noel T. Brewer, a professor in the health behavior department at the Gillings School of Global Public Health at the University of North Carolina. “The government is gathering data, giving information to the public quickly and standing up for their vaccination program. That will ensure public trust, and help the program.”

As pharmaceutical makers rush to get a coronavirus vaccine approved, countries around the world are grappling with how to safely and quickly distribute hundreds of millions of doses. Already, the pandemic has created confusion and distrust in an era when misinformation can spread rapidly — all of which could complicate the global effort toward immunity.

If a long-proven, extensively tested flu shot can spark uncertainty and concern, it could portend challenges for mass inoculations of a brand-new coronavirus vaccine. The potential pitfalls played out on a small scale in South Korea.

The country’s ambitious flu vaccine campaign began on Sept. 8, a month earlier than usual. Health officials announced plans to inoculate 30 million people, 10 million more than last year. But in their haste, problems arose.

A company hired to transport millions of doses of the vaccine had never carried such large quantities of cargo before. The flu vaccines need to stay refrigerated, at between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. On Sept. 21, photos began circulating online showing boxes of vaccines stacked outdoors, in a parking lot.

Out of an abundance of caution, the government temporarily suspended the program to investigate. On Oct. 6, it concluded that the vaccines were still safe, but nevertheless recalled the 480,000 doses that had been left outside long enough to potentially become ineffective.

Three days later, 615,000 doses of a vaccine shipped by another company were also recalled, after white particles were found inside. The government concluded they were harmless protein particles.

South Korea’s flu vaccine campaign was up and running again on Oct. 13. But the public was still wary.

The following week, a family reported that a 17-year-old high school student had died after receiving a flu vaccine. More reports of deaths came rushing in, most involving patients in their 70s and older. By Oct. 22, the reported death count had reached 28 and it was rising by the day. Singapore briefly suspended the use of a South Korean vaccine after the deaths were reported.

As Dr. Jung Jae-hun, a professor of preventive medicine at Gachon University near Seoul, read the news, he felt an urgent need to push back.

Flu vaccines had been tested and safely used for decades in South Korea. If the credibility of the program could be so easily undermined by unsubstantiated claims, he wondered what would happen once millions of people started taking coronavirus vaccines.

“I think this extreme situation was created because we are living through this unusual time of Covid-19 and people are overly sensitive about vaccines,” Dr. Jung wrote on Oct. 22, in the first of a series of Facebook posts criticizing the news reports.

He warned that reporting on “post-vaccination deaths” when there was no scientific evidence establishing a connection was like counting how many people had died after eating breakfast.

“If people don’t understand this, it could lead to the proliferation of anti-vaxxers here, like the ones in the West,” he said.

While the government stood by the safety of the vaccines, it also launched an investigation into the deaths, hoping to use science to counter misinformation. If, for instance, all the cases were linked to a particular vaccine or clinic, or if all the deaths were similar, it would raise red flags. Multiple deaths from anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction, would also implicate the vaccine.

But the government’s forensic investigations, which would eventually rule out such connections, didn’t move as quickly as the panic spread.

“Elderly people die every day, of a stroke, of heart attack, but the media reported these deaths as if none of them died on a normal day,” said Dr. Ki Mo-ran, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Center who sat on the government’s vaccination supervisory group. “As the people waited for the results, anxiety grew, trust fell and the vaccination program suffered.”

To help quell some of the public’s concerns, Dr. Jung published an opinion piece in the Journal of Korean Medical Science pointing out that it’s not unusual for some people to die coincidentally from unrelated causes, after receiving a vaccine. He cited a study published in 2013 that showed 23 out of every 100,000 Americans aged between 75 and 84 had died from a variety of causes within a week of taking their vaccines.

Days after Dr. Jung’s essay was published, the South Korean government released corresponding national figures. Last year, it said, 1,500 South Koreans 65 or older had died within a week of taking a flu vaccine. None of the deaths were linked to the vaccines. As influenza usually kills 3,000 people each year in South Korea, health officials insisted that the benefits of vaccination far outweighed any risks.

To Dr. Kim Woo-joo, a professor of medicine at Korea University, the government’s initial response could have been faster and more aggressive. “It was a failure in risk communication,” he said. “What was needed was fast, transparent and science-based communication to dispel misinformation and conspiracy theories and to show that these deaths were likely just coincidences.”

But Dr. Brewer, the professor at the University of North Carolina, held up South Korea as an example of how to respond to vaccine scares in the future. He noted that the main threat to vaccination programs around the world is misinformation, often related to an unproven safety scare.

He pointed to Japan and Denmark, where misinformation spread about vaccines against the human papillomavirus, or HPV. The vaccines help prevent cervical cancer in women, among other diseases.

Both countries failed to address inaccurate reports about the safety of the vaccines. As a consequence, Dr. Brewer said, the vaccination rate for HPV in Denmark dropped by 50 percent over several years, although it recovered after the government worked to counter the false reports. In Japan, it fell from 70 percent to 7 percent in just one year.

In the weeks since South Korea’s vaccination campaign started, the government has received more than 100 reports of people dying after receiving a flu vaccine. Officials have promptly disclosed the causes, which were unrelated to the inoculations.

Autopsies concluded that the patients often suffered cardiovascular and other diseases, and that all of them died of causes unrelated to vaccines, such as aortic dissection, acute myocardial infarction and cerebral hemorrhage. A medical examiner found poison in the body of the 17-year-old, and the police suspected suicide, although his family insists that he had no reason to kill himself.

“If you just blindly say, ‘oh no, these are not related,’ you’ll build a lot of distrust,” said Dr. Vanessa Raabe, an expert on vaccines and infectious diseases at N.Y.U. Langone Health who praised South Korea’s response. “You need to do the science before you say they are not related.”

The flu panic has subsided in South Korea, but only 19 million people have so far received their shots, far short of the government’s target of 30 million. Dr. Jung said that, as in the United States, political polarization in South Korea had likely contributed to some of the confusion over the safety of flu vaccines.

“Rather than being divided, we must learn to fight together against the common enemy,” he said. “If we want to reclaim our pre-Covid-19 life, going out to eat and drink and traveling abroad, vaccines are our best chance.”




No.1 article:
Top public health official makes ‘final plea’ on Covid threat as expert warns of potential ‘mother of all super-spreader events’

The top US public health official urged Americans today make a “sacrifice now to save lives and illness” by resisting the urge to gather together for Thanksgiving, as the US witnessed more than 2,000 deaths from coronavirus on Tuesday – the first time that grim mark has been surpassed since the spring.

Dr Anthony Fauci, the lead public health expert on the White House coronavirus taskforce and a leading official to every president since Ronald Reagan, said “that’s my final plea” before tomorrow’s traditional dinner celebrations.

“Keep the indoor gatherings as small as you possibly can. We all know how difficult that is because this is such a beautiful, traditional holiday. But by making that sacrifice you are going to prevent infections,” Fauci told ABC’s Good Morning America in a live interview on Wednesday morning.

Fauci, who has served as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984, said that asymptomatic people who have Covid-19 innocently and “without malice” unwittingly infect people if they attend an indoor party or gathering, especially when taking their face mask off to eat and drink.

“The sacrifice now could save lives and illness and make the future much brighter as we get through this, because we are going to get through this. Vaccines are right on the horizon,” he said.

More than 2,100 deaths from coronavirus were recorded in the US on Tuesday. That is the highest 24-hour death toll in the US since early May. The previous record total was 2,603 deaths in a day in mid-April, when New York was the world’s coronavirus hotspot and many hospitals in New York City were overwhelmed.

More than 88,000 Americans are now in hospital across the nation with coronavirus, infections are almost at 12.6m and deaths in the US are on the brink of 260,000, the highest numbers in the world, according to the Johns Hopkins coronavirus research center.

Fauci’s urging came as Joe Biden, the president-elect, delivered a Thanksgiving address in which he talked about how his family has broken its tradition of traveling for the holiday.

“This year, because we care so much for each other, we’re going to be having a separate Thanksgiving,” Biden said. “I know how hard it is to forgo family traditions. But it’s so very important. Our country is in the middle of a dramatic spike in cases.

“We need to remember, we’re at war with the virus, not with each other,” he added. “We’re all in this together.”

Jonathan Reiner, a professor of medicine at George Washington University, described Thanksgiving to CNN as “potentially the mother of all super-spreader events”.

He added that: “One of the ways we think the midwest was seeded with virus over the summer was with the Sturgis, South Dakota, motorcycle rally, [in August] where people were infected and then dispersed out through the midwest. Now imagine that on a massive scale [over Thanksgiving], with people leaving from every airport in the United States and carrying virus with them.”

Fauci added that “it concerns me greatly” if Americans, including healthcare workers, express doubts about taking the vaccines that are approaching imminent approval in the US.

He said there were three vaccines, “maybe more”, coming on stream that are “highly efficacious” and people should have faith in a process of approval that is “transparent and independent”.

“We could crush this outbreak the way we did with smallpox, polio and measles,” he said.

Fauci said he has been talking to president-elect Joe Biden’s incoming chief of staff, Ron Klain.

The Trump administration agreed this week, three weeks after the election, to begin cooperating with the Biden transition team.

Tom McCarthy contributed reporting





No.2 article:
Americas record worst week since pandemic's start – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

All adults should do a minimum of 150 minutes of vigorous physical activity per week, even more vital for well-being and mental health in the Covid-19 era, the World Health Organization said in its first guidance in a decade.

It recommended that children and adolescents have an average of one hour of daily physical exercise and limit time in front of electronic screens.

And people of all ages must compensate for growing sedentary behaviour with physical activity to ward off disease and add years to their lives, the WHO said, launching its “Every Move Counts” campaign.

“These guidelines emphasise what many are experiencing during the Covid restrictions that are applied all over the world. And that is that being active every day is good not only our bodies but also our mental health,” said Fiona Bull, head of WHO’s physical activity unit.

“Phone a friend and do classes online together, help your family members, do it as a family. And when you can, get outside,” she said.

Pregnant women and postpartum mothers are now included in the recommendations of 150 to 300 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity per week for adults.

This brings health benefits for both the mother and baby, according to Juana Willumsen, a WHO technical officer. “For example there is a 30% reduction in gestational diabetes amongst women who are physically active during pregnancy,” she said.

Adults above 65 are advised to add muscle strengthening and activities focusing on balance and coordination to help prevent falls later.

In an eve-of-Thanksgiving address, Joe Biden drew on historic hardships and his deep personal loss to make a passionate appeal for resilience, asking Americans to endure a national holiday amid restrictions on travel and gatherings imposed to fight the pandemic.

More than 12.6m cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in the US and more than 260,000 people have died. Vaccines are imminent but hospitalisations and deaths are surging in the US, straining infrastructure to breaking point as leaders warn of impending disaster.

His speech struck a note of unity. “We need to remember, we’re at war with the virus, not with each other,” Biden said from Wilmington, Delaware, where he is continuing transition work before his inauguration as the 46th president in Washington on 20 January.

Germany will make mask-wearing obligatory in all pedestrian high-traffic areas as well as in city centres, chancellor Angela Merkel has said.

“We are still too far away from an incidence of 50 per 100,000 inhabitants over seven days. I remain convinced [...] we still have to aim for this target,” she said. 

Germany will extend its current coronavirus restrictions through to early January unless there is a dramatic drop in infections - something that is not expected, chancellor Angela Merkel said.

Speaking after a meeting with the heads of Germany’s 16 states, Merkel said the measures introduced in early November, including limits on private gatherings and the closure of restaurants, leisure and cultural facilities, cannot be lifted given current infection rates.

The curbs will be continued “until 20 December first but we assume that ... due to the very high incidence of infection, restrictions will have to apply until the beginning of January unless we have an unexpected decrease,” Merkel said.

The agreement means continued closures for restaurants, bars, sporting facilities and cultural venues in Europe’s biggest economy, though schools and shops will remain open.

From 1 December, private gatherings will be limited to five people from two households - down from 10 people currently, though children are exempted from the new rule.

Trains will also expand their seating capacity, in order to better ensure distancing between passengers.

Fireworks will be banned on certain public squares to prevent people from gathering in large groups on New Year’s Eve in particular.

Germany will also seek a deal with European partners to close ski slopes through to early January, to prevent the virus spreading further.

“I will say this openly that it won’t be easy, but we will try,” Merkel said.

The measures were agreed after more than seven hours of tense talks, with some less-affected regions calling for lighter restrictions.

The number of new infections in Germany has plateaued over the past two weeks, with October’s exponential growth brought to a halt.

However, health officials have sounded the alarm over rapidly filling intensive care units and an inability to track the source of transmission while rates remain high.

In order to ease restrictions, the infection rate would have to come down to below 50 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants per week, Merkel said - a far cry from the current seven-day incidence of almost 140.

“The steeply rising curve has become a flat one, but this is only a partial success. We can by no means be satisfied with this partial success,” she said.

Germany has registered a total of 961,320 coronavirus cases and 14,771 deaths, according to the Robert Koch Institute disease control centre.

Wednesday saw 18,633 new cases and a record 410 deaths.

In a global push to end violence against women, activists held rallies on Wednesday and world leaders called for action to stop abuse, which has worsened during the coronavirus pandemic.

Protests from France to Ukraine were held on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women to draw attention to the millions of women killed or abused every year by their partners and close relatives.

Yet another by-product of Covid-19, domestic violence has risen dramatically this year world wide with calls to emergency services increasing especially during periods of lockdown and social isolation. 

Orange was selected by campaigners to denote the day because of its ability to symbolise a brighter future, free of violence. 

A number of EU buildings were lit up orange, while the Greek parliament in Athens illuminated with “no to violence” display.

Greece, like so many countries, has reported a steep climb in incidences of women seeking help. In April alone, calls to the SOS hotline reporting domestic violence quadrupled. 

The Italian health ministry, citing data from national statistics agency ISTAT, said calls to domestic violence hotlines shot up during the coronavirus lockdown, registering a 75% increase compared to the same period in 2019.

Together with Spanish prime minister Pedro Sánchez, Italian prime minister Giuseppe Conte signed a joint declaration vowing to accelerate measures to stamp out violence against women, calling it “an invisible pandemic”.

In Turkey, where at least 234 women have been killed since the start of the year, riot police in Istanbul blocked a small group of demonstrators from marching to the city’s iconic Taksim Square. The government has declared the square off-bounds for demonstrations.

Elsewhere in Istanbul, some 2,000 other women staged a peaceful demonstration calling on president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s government to remain committed to a European treaty on combatting violence against women.

UN agency UNAIDS said “evidence shows that the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in significant increases in gender-based violence in nearly all countries,” especially for women trapped at home with their abuser.

“Men’s violence against women is also a pandemic — one that pre-dates the virus and will outlive it,” said Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director of the UN Women agency. 

“Last year alone, 243 million women and girls experienced sexual or physical violence from their partner. This year, reports of increased domestic violence, cyberbullying, child marriages, sexual harassment and sexual violence have flooded in,” she said.

The majority of England will enter the two toughest tiers of Covid restrictions from next week, ministers are set to announce amid signs of a growing parliamentary rebellion and fears that the measures could remain unchanged until spring.

On Thursday Matt Hancock, the health secretary, is expected to say that most of the country will be placed into tiers 2 or 3, which include significant restrictions on hospitality, after the national lockdown ends on 2 December.

As ministers grappled with the backlash, a further 696 coronavirus deaths were announced on Wednesday – the highest UK daily total for fatalities since 5 May.

There is widespread expectation among MPs and local leaders that almost no regions will be in tier 1, and the main battle is over avoiding tier 3, under which pubs, restaurants and hospitality businesses can only operate as takeaways, and almost all household mixing is barred.

One key area of dispute is the size of the geographic areas allocated to different tiers. MPs, particularly in north-west and south-east England, who had been fiercely lobbying for regions to be decided in smaller geographical areas, said ministers had “gone quiet” over the course of Wednesday afternoon.

The EU is planning bold measures to boost its access to drugs, from sidestepping patent rights in emergencies to offering incentives for companies to shift production to Europe, according to documents published on Wednesday.

The possible moves are meant to tackle the chronic shortages of medicines that have dogged the bloc for years and have become more serious since the Covid-19 pandemic and its associated trade disruptions and drug export bans.

The European Commission wants faster procedures during crises to produce generic versions of drugs in EU states without the consent of patent holders, an EU document says.

So-called compulsory licensing is allowed under World Trade Organization (WTO) rules in emergencies as a waiver of normal regulations and could be applied during the Covid-19 pandemic.

“The Commission sees the need to ensure that effective systems for issuing compulsory licences are in place, to be used as a means of last resort and a safety net, when all other efforts to make IP (intellectual property) available have failed,” the first of Wednesday’s documents said.

Ironically, the proposal is part of an EU action plan on intellectual property that is mostly aimed at strengthening the protection of EU companies’ patents against foreign actors.

“Compulsory licensing is not an effective policy tool to create access and puts at risk any incentive to invest in medical innovation at a time when citizens across Europe, across the world, are looking to the life science community to find the answers to the coronavirus crisis,” EFPIA, the body representing the largest players in the European pharmaceutical industry, said in a statement.

In the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic, lawmakers and activists had urged the EU to use the WTO waiver to gain access to potential vaccines and drugs against the coronavirus, which have mostly been developed outside the 27-nation bloc.

The EU initially struggled to order large volumes of the antiviral drug remdesivir, which some studies have shown to be effective against Covid-19, because nearly all stocks of the drug produced by Gilead had been ordered by the US.

Though the EU executive has so far refused to invoke the WTO waiver and has struck multibillion-euro deals with drugmakers to secure Covid-19 shots and therapeutics, the pandemic has led to a reconsideration of existing procedures that largely fall under the remit of national governments in the bloc.

Canada has ordered more Covid-19 vaccine doses per capita than any other country - at least 194m and up to 414m doses for its population of 38 million.

With limited manufacturing capacity, six of the vaccines the country has ordered will have to be imported and the first are unlikely to arrive before early 2021, while a candidate from Quebec’s Medicago is likely at least six months from approval.

Canada has announced purchase deals with Moderna, Pfizer, Novavax, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Sanofi SA with GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca, and Medicago.

In the unlikely event all seven are approved, Canada could buy enough doses to vaccinate the country more than five times over. The vaccines will be distributed free through the provincial health services.

Canadian officials have not given a precise timeline for deliveries, but said they expect to receive a combined six million doses of Moderna and Pfizer’s vaccines by the end of March 2021.

Prime minister Justin Trudeau warned Canadians on Tuesday that manufacturers are likely to provide their own countries with vaccines first.

“Countries like the United States, Germany and the UK do have domestic pharmaceutical facilities, which is why they are obviously going to prioritise helping their citizens first,” he said.

Michael Mullette, managing director of Moderna’s Canadian unit, said timing of shipments will depend in part on which countries have approved its vaccine, noting that Canada has been working to speed up the regulatory process.

“Canada is certainly one of the first countries to have an agreement with us, and will be serviced very quickly,” he said. Canada announced a deal with Moderna on 5 August. The EU finalised a supply deal with Moderna on Tuesday.

Health Canada said last week it could approve one or more vaccine early in the first quarter of 2021.

According to preliminary guidance published by the federal government in early November, more vulnerable people will be prioritised for vaccination. They would include those at high risk of severe illness or death from Covid-19, such at the elderly.

Others likely to be in the early waves of inoculations are healthcare workers, people providing essential services such as workers at food processing plants and grocery store staff, and other people whose living or working conditions put them at elevated risk of infection, “and where infection could have disproportionate consequences, including Indigenous communities.”

Hi everyone, this is Jessica Murray taking over the blog for the next few hours - do get in touch if you’d like to share any story tips or personal experiences.

Email: jessica.murray@theguardian.comTwitter: @journojess_

Here’s a summary of the most recent developments:

France has reported a fresh surge in confirmed Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, along with another rise in deaths.

There were a further 16,282 new confirmed cases, up sharply from the 9,155 new cases recorded on Tuesday and 4,452 on Monday, and taking the total number of confirmed cases in France to 2,170,097.

The death toll rose to 50,618 - up by more than 380 from the previous day. There were a total of 29,972 patients in hospital with Covid-19, and 4,148 in intensive care units.

French president Emmanuel Macron, who this week announced a gradual easing of a national lockdown set up to stop the spread of the virus, wants the daily rate of new cases to drop to around 5,000 per day before restrictions are lifted.

On Tuesday, Macron said France will start easing the lockdown this weekend so that by Christmas, shops, theatres and cinemas will reopen and people will be able to spend the holiday with their families.

However, French restaurants and cafes would have to stay shut until 20 January to avoid triggering a third wave.

Turkey recorded 28,351 new cases in the last 24 hours, the health minister Fahrettin Koca has said. It is the first time since July that Ankara has included asymptomatic cases in the total.

The government had only been reporting symptomatic cases since the summer, which critics said masked the true scale of the outbreak. Data from the Health Ministry showed on Wednesday that 168 people had died in the last 24 hours; the most since the beginning of the outbreak.

Koca said Turkey has signed a contract to buy 50m doses of vaccine from China’s Sinovac Biotech. They are due to be delivered in the months of December, January and February, he has told a news conference.

Sinovac’s experimental vaccine CoronaVac triggered a quick immune response but the level of antibodies produced was lower than in people who had recovered from the virus, preliminary trial results showed.

CoronaVac and four other experimental vaccines developed in China are in late-stage trials to determine their effectiveness.

Speaking in Ankara after a science council meeting, Koca said Turkey is also in talks with other vaccine developers.

The important thing here for us to start using vaccines which are known to be effective and reliable ... I think the vaccination calendar could start on 11 December.

The US has recorded 165,282 new cases and 1,989 more deaths, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has said, taking the totals to 12,498,734 and 259,005, respectively.

Researchers led by the World Health Organization would like to go back to a wholesale food market in Wuhan in China to follow up initial cases that emerged in the city and investigate how the virus probably first spread from bats.

Peter Ben Embarek, a WHO expert in animal diseases, said that the team would like to re-interview early cases and find infected workers who may have “important information” on where they may have picked up the virus.

“There is nothing to indicate that it would be man-made,” he said, reiterating the view of the WHO and of most scientists. Ben Embarek said:

Before December 2019 we don’t really know what happened, we don’t know how the virus jumped from its most probable natural environment in the bat population over to humans. And it’s that bit of the history that we need to reconstruct.

The WHO has had assurances from China that an international field trip will be arranged as soon as possible, its top emergency expert Mike Ryan has said.

Chinese researchers are carrying out epidemiological studies into early cases and conditions at the Wuhan market while the international team of 10 experts is to carry out phase 2 studies.

The United States and, to a lesser extent, some European delegations have raised questions about the delay and sought a timeline for the international experts’ visit, diplomats say.

Ben Embarek said “it’s not too late” for the probe.

What we would like to do with the international team and counterparts in China is to go back in the Wuhan environment, re-interview in-depth the initial cases, try to find other cases that were not detected at that time and try to see if we can push back the history of the first cases.

Investigations would look into “everything that went in and out of that market at that time and try to find out where these animals and food products came from,” he said.

They would look for commonalities among market workers who got severely ill in December, and whether they were infected in the countryside or a farming environment in southern China or “perhaps even outside China”, he said.

An analysis of the Reuters data showed the rate of new infections picking up globally. It took just 17 days to go from 50m cases to 60m, compared with the 21 days it took to go from 40m to 50m.

About 580,000 cases have been reported each day over the past week and around half of all cases since the start of the pandemic were reported over the past 70 days.

In Europe, 1m new cases were recorded over just five days, for a total of more than 16 million cases, including 365,000 deaths, Reuters reports.

Governments across Europe are struggling to impose restrictions on public life while allowing families to celebrate Christmas without further fuelling outbreaks. While a national lockdown in England is due to end next week, Germany, Spain, and Italy have all announced restrictions over the holiday period, including limits on house guests.

The Latin American region has the highest number of reported deaths in the world, representing about 21% of all global cases and over 31% of all global deaths reported.

Brazil joined the United States and India as the only countries to have recorded more than 6 million infections last week. With almost 170,000 confirmed fatalities, Brazil has the world’s second-highest death toll.

While India remains the second-worst affected country in the world with almost 9.2m cases, it has continued to report a slowdown in new cases in recent weeks. It has reported an average of around 44,000 cases a day over the past week, well down from a peak of just under 97,900 cases in mid-September.

Asia-Pacific countries such as China, South Korea, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand had shown how rapid, local, and intrusive steps can be effective in extinguishing outbreaks.

The global tally of cases has surpassed 60m, according to researchers at both Johns Hopkins University (JHU) and the Reuters news agency.

According to the latter, the pace of new infections is accelerating and the United States is reporting its worst numbers of hospitalisations. Officials there urged Americans to stay home for the imminent Thanksgiving holiday as soaring numbers of patients pushed medical professionals to the brink.

The United States has reported 1m new cases in less than a week, taking its total reported infections to over 12.5m and its death toll to 260,000, according to the Reuters data, which is based on official statements.

JHU, which bases its figures on both official and media sources, said 60,037,735 have been infected since the pandemic began. More than 1.4 million people are reported to have died.

South Africa’s Western Cape province, home to the tourist hub Cape Town, is experiencing a resurgence of Covid-19 infections, its premier Alan Winde has said after new cases jumped 52.1% in the past week.

The Western Cape emerged as Africa’s first regional hotspot towards the end of March when the virus spread via tourists into local communities, following the first confirmed positive case in South Africa earlier that month. Winde said:

The Western Cape government is deeply concerned about the growing number of Covid-19 infections and hospitalisations in the province, which can now be considered as an established resurgence.

 Issuing a hotspot alert, Winde said a resurgence occurred when the number of active cases increased week-on-week by more than 20%.

“There is also now established community transmission of the virus again in this province, which means that it is spreading within communities at a faster rate,” he said, adding that since the start of November, hospitalisations across the province have increased by 63%.

As of Wednesday, there were 962 hospitalisations in the province, with 183 patients in intensive care units, Winde said. The total number of infections had reached 126,362.

South Africa has recorded the most infections on the African continent, with more than 760,000 confirmed cases and more than 20,000 deaths.

The country’s lockdown restrictions were eased to their loosest in September after the rate of new cases fell.

On Tuesday, Reuters reported that the South African government was joining the Covax global vaccine distribution scheme, with a committed purchase for 10% of its population of 58 million people.





No.3 article:
Five-person limit on groups will come in on 1 December with rules easing over Christmas

Angela Merkel has agreed with the leaders of Germany’s 16 federal states to extend and tighten measures against coronavirus until at least 20 December – and they are likely to extend them into January, she said late on Wednesday.

“This is absolutely not the time to sound the all-clear,” she told journalists, after the number of deaths from the virus reached a daily record.

However, rules will be eased over the Christmas holidays to let families and friends celebrate together.

Germany imposed a month-long “lockdown lite” on 2 November to rein in a second wave that is sweeping much of Europe. Bars and restaurants are closed but schools and shops remain open.

From 1 December, private gatherings will be limited to five people. Over Christmas, that number will rise to 10, not counting children, though Wednesday’s decisions included an appeal to avoid social contact for a week before family visits.

“This must not be a lonely Christmas for people in vulnerable groups,” she said.

People will be actively encouraged to do their Christmas shopping midweek to avoid crowding. Masks are now also expected to be worn outside shops where long queues are expected to form in the run-up to Christmas and the new year, as well as in car parks. In schools, obligatory mask wearing is to be introduced for school pupils from the seventh grade (12-13 years) upwards.

The detonation of fireworks, a mainstay of German new year celebrations, is to be banned in public places, in order to reduce mass gatherings and in the hope of lessening the burden on hospitals, which typically have to deal with a large number of burn wounds in connection with the festivities. A major fireworks display at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin is to be cancelled. Individual town and city councils will be responsible for deciding precisely where the ban will apply.

Merkel and the state leaders also agreed to try to introduce a Europe-wide ban on skiing holidays until 10 January, despite resistance from tourism industry figureheads.

“I will say this openly that it won’t be easy, but we will try,” Merkel said.

Last winter, skiers in Austria and Italy in particular are believed to have been largely responsible for the initial spread of the virus across the continent.

The meeting took place as Germany recorded its highest daily death rate, which rose by 410 in 24 hours. Almost 14,800 people have died from the virus. The registered infection rate appears to be stabilising, with 18,633 new infections since Tuesday.

But it is still too high if the health system is going to cope at least into next spring, by which time the effects of a vaccination programme are expected to have made an impact on the spread of the virus.

“The exponential growth of infection numbers has been stopped, the steep curve has been turned into a flattened curve,” Merkel said. “But we cannot be content with this partial success.” 

An appeal is expected to be made to employers to allow employees, where possible, to work from home in the run-up to Christmas and into the start of the new year.

But if schools were forced to close early there is still a lack of clarity over the legal rights of employees who cannot work from home but would have to take time off for childcare.

According to a survey by the polling institute Civey, a majority of Germans support the proposals to reduce private gatherings to a maximum of 10 people. A total of 57% were in favour of the government setting a limit, while 36.5% said it was inappropriate for the state to meddle in private gatherings.

From 1 December, private gatherings will be limited to five people from two households – down from 10 people currently, though children are exempted from the new rule.

Trains will also expand their seating capacity, in order to better ensure distancing between passengers.





No.4 article:
Toronto police identify &#x27;person of interest&#x27; in murders of billionaire couple

Barry Sherman and his wife Honey were found dead at their Toronto mansion in late 2017. Police initially said they were treating the case as a “targeted” double murder, but since then has been little news on the investigation.

On Wednesday, however, a police spokeswoman confirmed a report in the Toronto Star that a “person of interest” had been identified but not arrested. They did not give more details.

Barry Sherman founded Apotex in 1974 and turned it into one of the largest generic drugmakers before stepping down as chief executive in 2012.

He and his wife were known for their donations to hospitals, universities and Jewish organizations.

The Shermans’ bodies were found hanged in December 2017.

There were no signs of forced entry into the home, and although police described the deaths as “suspicious”, they also said they were not looking for any suspect.

The Sherman family has criticized police handling of the deaths and hired a private investigator of their own to look into the case. The detective completed the work last year but gave no details to the public.

In 2018, the family offered set up its own tip line and offered a reward of up to C$10m ($7.6m) for information leading to the arrest and prosecution of a suspect.





No.5 article:
British-Australian academic has been imprisoned in Iran since 2018

Kylie Moore-Gilbert, the Australian-British academic detained by Iran on espionage charges, has been released in a prisoner exchange for three Iranians.

In what will be seen as a victory for Iranian state hostage-taking by some and a humanitarian move by others, Moore-Gilbert was released on Wednesday morning. The move also raises hopes for the fate of Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe and Anoosheh Ashoori, dual UK-Iranian nationals who have been held since 2016 and 2017 respectively.

Leaving Iran after 804 days in prison, Moore-Gilbert praised the people of Iran.

“I have nothing but respect, love and admiration for the great nation of Iran and its warm-hearted, generous and brave people,” she said. “It is with bittersweet feelings that I depart your country, despite the injustices which I have been subjected to.

“I came to Iran as a friend and with friendly intentions, and depart Iran with those sentiments not only still intact, but strengthened.”

Moore-Gilbert thanked the Australian government, and in particular, diplomats in Australia’s embassy in Tehran “who have been working tirelessly these past two years and three months to secure my release.

“Thank you also to all of you who have supported me and campaigned for my freedom, it has meant the world to me to have you behind me throughout what has been a long and traumatic ordeal.”

Moore-Gilbert’s family said they are “relieved and ecstatic” at her release. “We cannot convey the overwhelming happiness that each of us feel at this incredible news.”

Pictures released by the pictures released by the TV station IRIB showed the three released Iranians being greeted at an airport or hotel lounge by Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi.

Moore-Gilbert, wearing a grey scarf and mask, was shown in the lounge looking composed but concerned before being escorted with a companion to a van.

Iran’s Mehr news agency reported: “Today, two years after Gilbert’s conviction, the Islamic Republic finally decided to exchange her with three Iranian economic activists who had been detained for trying to circumvent sanctions.”

On its Telegram channel, the Iranian semi-official news agency Fars said Moore-Gilbert was exchanged for “an economic activist and two Iranian nationals detained abroad on trumped-up charges”.

Cambridge-educated Moore-Gilbert was a Middle East scholar at the University of Melbourne. She was convicted in a secret trial and given a 10-year sentence for espionage after being arrested in September 2018 in Tehran, where she had attended a conference.

Iran claimed she had connections with MI6 and links with Jewish universities. It was also claimed she had been researching the Syrian opposition and Bahrain Shias.

In letters smuggled out of prison, Moore-Gilbert consistently denied the charges alleged against her.

“I am an innocent woman,” she wrote to prison authorities last year, “[and] have been imprisoned for a crime I have not committed and for which there is no real evidence.”

She added: “I am not a spy. I have never been a spy and I have no interest in working for a spying organisation in any country. When I leave Iran, I want to be a free woman and live a free life, not under the shadow of extortion and threats.”

Two of the released Iranian men appear to have been convicted of terrorism eight years ago in Thailand. Thai officials believed the men were part of an attempt to assassinate Israeli diplomats in Bangkok.

Saeid Moradi, then 29, had his legs blown off when a bomb he attempted to throw at police detonated at his feet. He had been sentenced to life in prison for carrying explosives as well as for attempted murder. A second Iranian, Mohammad Kharzei, 43, was jailed for 15 years for possessing explosives.

Kate Allen, the director of Amnesty International UK, said: “We were always extremely concerned that Kylie was imprisoned solely for exercising her right to freedom of expression – including through her work as an academic – and it’s an enormous relief to hear of her release.

“There may now be renewed grounds for hoping that UK-Iranian dual nationals like Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe and Anoosheh Ashoori will also be released from their unjust jail terms in Iran in the coming days or weeks.”

Earlier this year Moore-Gilbert had been moved to Qarchak women’s prison, widely regarded as the worst women’s prison in Iran . In what may have been the start of her release process, Moore-Gilbert was moved back to Tehran’s Evin prison two months ago where she had spent the bulk of her time in detention since she was seized two years ago.

Moore-Gilbert recently met the head of Iran’s prisons organisation, Mohammad Mehdi Haj-Mohammadi, and the secretary of the Iranian high council for human rights, Ali Bagheri-Kani, and reportedly raised issues about her incarceration.

Friends and colleagues of Moore-Gilbert who had been campaigning for her release said they were “over the moon” at her release after 804 days in detention.

“But let’s be clear: This should never have happened,” the campaign group said in a statement. “Kylie was held to ransom by the Iranian regime, which saw fit to take an innocent Australian woman hostage in order to bring its own convicted prisoners abroad home. It’s a despicable business model with incalculable human consequences.”

The group thanked Australian diplomats who had worked for Moore-Gilbert’s release and called on governments around the world to put pressure on Iran to abandon hostage diplomacy.

“Lives are being needlessly destroyed by a morally bankrupt regime that knows no currency other than cruelty.”

Nasrin Sotoudeh, an Iranian human rights lawyer and political prisoner, was a close friend of Moore-Gilbert’s when they shared a cell in Evin. Sotoudeh, imprisoned since June 2018, was released, at least temporarily, a fortnight ago due to ill health.

She had twice gone on hunger strike to demand authorities release other political prisoners at risk of infection in the country’s often overcrowded and unsanitary detention facilities. Sotoudeh’s latest hunger strike ended after six weeks when she was admitted to hospital in poor health.





No.6 article:
Saudi women&#x27;s rights activist&#x27;s trial moved to terrorism court

Loujain al-Hathloul looked weak and unwell after 900 days in jail, said her family

Saudi Arabia has moved the trial of activist Loujain al-Hathloul to a special court that handles terrorism cases, a move condemned by human rights campaigners as a heavy-handed attempt to muzzle dissent.

Hathloul has been in jail without trial for over 900 days now, and her family said she looked weak and unwell at a rare court appearance on Wednesday, her body shaking and her voice faint.

She appeared with three other women who were also arrested in 2018, shortly before the government dropped its longstanding ban on women driving; Hathloul had been a prominent face of the grassroots campaign for change.

The court appearance came just after Saudi Arabia wrapped up its role as virtual host of this year’s G20 summit, which had women’s empowerment as one of its themes.

Her trial was expected to begin on Wednesday, but the judge’s decision to hand over her case to the “specialised criminal court” means further delays, and represents an escalation of the state’s case against her. It is unclear if the cases of the other women in the dock have also been moved.

“We’re very concerned about the use of this court, because it is supposed to look into cases of terrorism. It is not the place to try peaceful human rights activists such as Loujain al-Hathloul,” said Hashem Hashem, regional campaigner for Amnesty International.

“We are concerned that this transfer is to further muzzle peaceful and critical voices and to punish activists such as Loujain for demanding change and reform.”

The charges against Hathloul appear almost entirely related to her campaigning. Offences include speaking to journalists, diplomats and international activist groups, sources who saw the charge sheets, which have not been made public, have told campaign group Human Rights Watch.

Her family and rights groups say she has been tortured in jail, and recently she has been held incommunicado for long periods.

She went on hunger strike in late October in protest, but after two weeks prison guards started waking her up every two hours which left her “psychologically exhausted” and she halted the strike, said her sister, Lina al-Hathloul.

Hathloul’s trial has been delayed before, and Lina said the family is frustrated by constant postponements, pointing out that the presiding judge had been dealing with the case for a year and eight months before announcing he did not have jurisdiction.

“We are disappointed but not surprised,” Lina told the Guardian. “Every decision from the beginning has been made impulsively and illegally. I know they are trying to break her but we won’t ever give up on her.”

The outgoing US president, Donald Trump, and the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, have been close allies, their bond helping blunt international scrutiny of the country’s handling of dissent and Saudi Arabia’s bloody intervention in Yemen.

The looming transfer of presidential power to Joe Biden will likely mean some increased pressure on Riyadh. Biden has promised to review US-Saudi relations, including Washington’s support for the Saudi intervention in Yemen.





No.7 article:
Coronavirus: tips for a safer Christmas

Well-ventilated homes, guest cutlery, picnics and deferral until midsummer among advice for tweaking the traditional festival

The government has given the green light to people across the UK gathering in groups of up to three households of any size from 23 to 27 December. How can those who decide to meet up with people this Christmas minimise the risks?

Reconsider the nature of Christmas

If you are not in a high-risk group it is not entirely crazy to meet a few people in the safest way possible, suggests Lucy Yardley, a professor of health psychology at the University of Bristol. “But what really isn’t going to work is the traditional Christmas done in the traditional way.”

So think flexibly. Consider mince pies and presents in the garden, chestnuts roasting on an outdoor fire, a bracing walk with a picnic, or even eschewing communal eating altogether – since a Christmas lunch inevitably means removing face coverings and often sitting in close proximity while chatting for prolonged periods, all activities best avoided.

Isolation before Christmas

If you are ill, you should obviously stay at home. But to reduce the risk of asymptomatic coronavirus transmission, you could consider self-quarantining in the run-up to Christmas. “If you are able to completely self-isolate for 14 days beforehand then you really are very safe,” says Yardley. “Five days isn’t enough, although it is better than nothing. Ten days would be better, and 14 days better still.”

Try to avoid seeing everyone at once

Just because three households are allowed to form a Christmas bubble that does not make such an event safe, particularly if your home is small. The more people you cram inside the higher the odds that one of you is unwittingly carrying the virus and the harder it is to maintain social distancing.

Covid-secure your home

There are many ways of reducing the risk of transmission indoors, including disinfecting frequently touched surfaces, wearing a mask, maintaining a 2-metre distance from others, and using separate bathrooms.

Ventilation is particularly important, and in well-insulated modern homes a single open window may not be enough.

“What really makes a difference is having some airflow through the house, so keep the doors open and a window at the top and the bottom of the house ajar,” says Gabriel Scally, visiting professor of public health at the University of Bristol, and a member of Independent Sage. The same applies to individual rooms: keep doors and windows open.

Remember home does not mean safety

Cancelling small gatherings is one of the most effective strategies for preventing the transmission of Covid-19, finds a recent study in Nature Human Behaviour.

Gathering in the “safety” of your own home is particularly risky, precisely because we perceive it to be safe, warns Stephen Reicher, a professor of social psychology at the University of St Andrews. “We feel relaxed at home, and that can be dangerous because it may mean we let down our guard.”

Learn how to politely say no

It can be difficult to push a loved one away if they approach you for a hug or invite you indoors. To avoid seeming rude you could think through potentially awkward situations and try to pre-empt them. “Try to frame your saying ‘no’ as an offer, rather than a rejection,” suggests Reicher. “So, don’t say, ‘don’t come near me’, but rather ‘shall I keep my distance so I don’t infect you?’ instead.”

Table manners

If you have the space and furniture available, consider a U-shaped table arrangement or even separate tables for different households.

“Having people from different households directly facing one another isn’t a good idea,” says Linda Bauld, a professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh. Neither is playing background music, which encourages people to raise their voices and emit more droplets from their mouths.

Avoid touching things that other people have touched, including shared food dishes. Ideally, guests should bring their own crockery and cutlery, and take it with them when they leave.

Think carefully about who does the washing up. “Certainly, it shouldn’t be the most vulnerable person,” says Yardley. “Also remember that when the guests leave, any virus will remain in the house, so it’s best not to have the most vulnerable person hosting an event.”

For additional tips on staying safe at home see the Germ Defence website, which Yardley and colleagues developed.

Timing matters

The amount of time you spend indoors makes a difference to the build-up of virus in the air. From a contact-tracing perspective 15 minutes of sitting within 2 metres of someone indoors is the definition of “close contact”. Shorter visits are therefore better than longer visits.

If you are planning to visit relatives or friends or invite in guests consider doing it in the morning rather than the afternoon or evening. It is easier to cajole people outdoors when there is daytime light, and you might be less likely to consume alcohol.

“If alcohol is involved people are likely to stay longer, and physical distancing often becomes more difficult,” Bauld says.

Outdoors is best but not risk-free

If you are considering a traditional Boxing Day walk, try to keep your distance from other households. Although the risks of transmission are lower outdoors, 2 metres is still the ideal minimum.

If you are taking part in carol singing (if it is permitted under still-to-be-published government guidance) you should probably stand even further away. “Singing to each other across the garden is fine though,” Yardley says.

Consider a midsummer Christmas

Postponing gatherings with family or friends until the summer could be the safest strategy of all.

“We could decide to love each other by keeping our distance, and then planning a bloody great party for Midsummer’s Day,” Reicher suggests. “Personally, I’ve always liked the notion of a Christmas barbie on the beach.”





No.8 article:
Sicily asks Cuba to send medics as Italy fights second Covid wave

Request made to embassy in Cuba as island struggles with shortage of doctors and nurses

Authorities in Sicily have asked Cuba’s government to send about 60 healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, to the region as hospitals in the Italian island struggle with a shortage of medical personnel during the second coronavirus wave.

The request was filed this week to the Italian embassy in Cuba and refers to intensive care specialists, nurses, anaesthetists, resuscitators, virologists and pneumologists, the Italian newspaper la Repubblica reported.

Between March and April this year, Cuban medical teams landed in some of Italy’s worst-hit regions, including Lombardy and Piedmont, to replace overworked Italian professionals.

Other medical brigades have fanned out across the world to fight Covid-19 in 20 other countries, from South Africa to Suriname.

“The Cuban government has teams of doctors and nurses who are willing to travel to other countries to work, and we asked for their help’’, Renato Costa, Sicily’s Covid-19 emergency commissioner, told la Repubblica. “We know that in recent weeks other regions in Italy have asked Cuba for help, too. We just hope they will come to us first. I am in contact with the embassy, which has welcomed our request.”

On 4 November, Rome designated Sicily as an “orange zone”, at high risk, mainly because of the lack of health facilities and beds in intensive care units.

On Monday, Italy’s government asked health inspectors to investigate whether Sicily attempted to avoid going into the high-contagion-risk red zone by inflating ICU bed numbers – the most important parameter to determine in which zone to place a region.

There were a further 48 deaths in Sicily on Tuesday; the highest daily toll since the beginning of the pandemic.

The Covid second wave has exposed Italy’s shortage of intensive care staff. Many medics have chosen to leave the profession or take early retirement after the trauma experienced in the spring. Italy’s doctors’ federation said that 27 medics had lost their lives within the last 10 days, while 27,000 health workers had become infected over the past month.

There were a further 722 coronavirus-related deaths in Italy on Wednesday and 25,853 new infections.

The Italian health minister, Roberto Speranza, said he would present the Italian government’s Covid vaccine plan on 2 December.

“The purchase of the vaccine will be centralised’’, said Speranza. “I have very great faith in the regulatory agencies set up to ensure its safety, but we’ll still have to resist a few months, then a new phase will be opened; we can’t afford a third wave.”





No.9 article:
Shivering Dublin bay swimmers slighted for their &#x27;fancy fleeces&#x27;

Choppy waters as clash of ‘newbie dryrobe types’ with ‘hardy’ bathers swells into debate on tribes and snobbery

James Joyce opened Ulysses with a reference to the “scrotum tightening” effect of swimming in Dublin bay, but these days there is a secondary, somewhat more visible effect: dryrobe bashing.

A boom in the popularity of sea swimming in Ireland has filled Dublin’s bathing spots with people wrapped in fleece-lined hooded robes – and for some of the old-timers it feels like an invasion.

“By order: no dryrobes or dryrobe types!!!” said a sign erected by the Forty Foot swimming site in Sandycove, Dublin Bay, with a red line across an image of three people in robes. It referred to the dryrobe, a brand of UK clothing designed to keep sportspeople warm.

“Warning: beware of dryrobe wankers,” said another poster spotted in Blackrock. It complained about the “grim reaper silhouette” and accused wearers of taking up too much space and using GoPros, selfie sticks and other devices to document fleeting swims.

The critiques have sparked debate on social media and on radio shows about tribalism, snobbery and social etiquette in the Covid-19 era.

Year-round sea swimming used to be the preserve of a few people, known as “hardies”, deemed brave or mad. That changed several years ago when sea swimming became trendy. The throngs multiplied this year after pandemic restrictions shut gyms and other amenities.

As defence against the post-swim chill identified in Joyce’s literary masterpiece, many bathers bought robes costing about €150. Some robes have been spotted inland, and dog walkers, outdoor drinkers and gardeners swear by them.

However, some hardies associate the robes with arrivistes who snaffle parking spaces, hog benches with their fancy fleeces, call sea swimming “wild swimming” and try to undo the Irish Sea’s effects on the human body.

“The hardy guys wouldn’t wear one if you gave it to them, but I think they’re great – warm, comfortable, practical,” Storme Delaney, 40, wearing a black dryrobe at the Forty Foot promontory, said on Wednesday. “The real issue is that the hardies feel they’re being taken over by the newbies.”

“I’m traditional, I wouldn’t be into them myself,” said David Mitchell, 63, fresh from a dip. “I’d be too warm in it.” He was wearing shorts.Kay Wallace, 74, a lifelong Forty Footer, said robes took up bench space, which was limited. “People just feck them everywhere.” However she was open to conversion. “They look great. I might get one.”

Bathers, those with and without robes, laughed off the posters. “It’s funny, it’s just teasing,” said Susan Ledwidge, 58, who received a robe as a birthday present last month and said she loved it. “It’s so nice and warm.”

Ian O’Meara, owner of the Viking Marine store in Dun Laoghaire, said he could barely keep up with the demand for robes. He lamented a “sinister” tinge to the mockery. In an effort to restore harmony on Wednesday he recorded an instruction video on how to fold and store robes.





No.10 article:
Culled mink rise from the dead to Denmark&#x27;s horror

Carcasses rose to surface at improvised mass grave owing to gases from decomposition

Dead mink are rising from their graves in Denmark after a rushed cull over fears of a coronavirus mutation led to thousands being slaughtered and buried in shallow pits – from which some are now emerging.

“As the bodies decay, gases can be formed,” Thomas Kristensen, a national police spokesman, told the state broadcaster DR. “This causes the whole thing to expand a little. In this way, in the worst cases, the mink get pushed out of the ground.”

Police in West Jutland, where several thousand mink were buried in a mass grave on a military training field, have tried to counter the macabre phenomenon by shovelling extra soil on top of the corpses, which are in a 1 metre-deep trench.

“This is a natural process,” Kristensen said. “Unfortunately, one metre of soil is not just one metre of soil –it depends on what type of soil it is. The problem is that the sandy soil in West Jutland is too light. So we have had to lay more soil on top.”

Adding to the popular concern, local media reported that the animals may also have been buried too close to lakes and underground water reserves, prompting fears of possible contamination of ground and drinking water supplies.

“It seems like no one really knows the consequences of this,” Susan Münster of the Danish water board told Jyllands Posten. “I must confess I find it worrying.” At least two local mayors had demanded the mink be dug up and incinerated, Münster said.

One local politician, Leif Brogger, told the newspaper: “The authorities are playing with our environment, and using it as a dumping ground.”

Photos and videos of the emerging bodies have set social media buzzing in Denmark, with one Twitter user calling 2020 “the year of the zombie mutant killer mink” and another calling on the population to “run … The mink are coming for you.”

The Danish environment ministry said the phenomenon was a “temporary problem tied to the decaying process”, adding that the area would be monitored 24 hours a day until a fence is put up “to avoid potential problems for animals and humans”.

Kristensen said there was only a small risk to humans from the decomposing bodies, which are disinfected and covered with lime before being buried, because the virus was transmitted mainly by live mink exhaling it into the air.

It was possible, however, that “small quantities of bacteria may still be trapped in their fur”, he said, adding that it was “never healthy to get close to dead animals, so therefore this is of course something to stay away from”.

Denmark, the world’s largest exporter of mink fur, announced in early November it would cull the country’s more than 15 million mink after discovering a mutated version of the virus that could have jeopardised the effectiveness of future vaccines.

Two weeks later, and in the midst of a political crisis over the legality of its decree, the government concluded that the threat to human vaccines had “very likely been extinguished” in the absence of any further cases of the mutated version.

The country’s mink farmers have so far culled more than 10 million mink, according to the latest tally.





No.11 article:
Thousands protest in Bangkok as Thai activists face charges of insulting king

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Summons for pro-democracy leaders are the first under lese-majesty rules for two years

Summons for pro-democracy leaders are the first under lese-majesty rules for two years

Thousands of people have gathered in Bangkok to demand the king relinquish control of royal funds worth tens of billions of dollars, despite the Thai authorities escalating their crackdown on protesters by reviving the kingdom’s fierce lese-majesty law.

Police summoned 15 prominent activists to face charges under the law, which shields Thailand’s powerful and ultra-rich royal family from criticism. It has one of the strictest defamation criteria in the world, stating that anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent” can face up to 15 years on each charge.

On Wednesday evening, Parit Chiwarak, also known as Penguin, who is among those facing lese-majesty charges, said protesters would not back down. “We will not lower the ceiling,” he said, referring to how protesters have broken the taboo that has long prevented open discussion of the royal family.

Protesters have made bold calls for reforms of Thailand’s monarchy, an institution once considered beyond public criticism, arguing it should be accountable and transparent. They have also demanded wider democratic reforms, including a new constitution.

Parit said protesters must refrain from violence: “We will not give [the authorities] an excuse to use aggression … We will not fall into their trap even though they are provoking us.” He addressed crowds wearing a duck suit – a reference to the inflatable ducks used by protesters to shield them from water cannon last week.

While Wednesday’s protest was peaceful, later in the evening loud bangs were heard, and a volunteer protest guard was reportedly injured. At a protest last week, six people were treated for gunshot wounds.

Thousands of protesters had gathered outside the head office of Siam Commercial Bank (SCB), Thailand’s oldest bank, in which the king owns a stake of more than 23%, to call for greater oversight of royal funds. They had originally planned to gather outside the crown property bureau, the office that manages royal assets, but said they would move to avoid confrontation with royalists who had announced a counter rally.

After ascending the throne, King Maha Vajiralongkorn took direct control of the crown property bureau, which is worth tens of billions of dollars. Previously, the fund – including prime real estate in Bangkok, shares in SCB and stakes in the country’s largest industrial conglomerate, Siam Cement Group – was under the supervision of the finance ministry. Its exact value is not known, though some estimates suggest it is worth $40bn (£30bn).

“At least people should have the space to investigate [how money is spent] and check the institution – not only the monarchy but also other institutions. We will not accept military power any more,” said Nik, 31, who attended Wednesday’s protest.

Strict lèse majesté laws make it a crime to criticise, defame or insult members of Thailand's royal family.

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Protesters have accused the king of wasting taxpayers’ money, and have criticised him for spending most of his time in Germany while Thailand faces economic devastation caused by coronavirus. They believe such assets should be returned, and that the king’s private wealth should be separated from the crown funds.

In a statement released ahead of Wednesday’s demonstration, the protest group Free Youth said: “Transferring the crown property to the king’s property is equivalent to a robbery of the nation’s wealth.” It also criticised the police response to their protests, saying that “being near the police does not make you feel safe”.

Images of shipping containers, stacked together by police to form barricades across the roads leading to the bureau, were shared widely on social media – prompting the Danish shipping company Maersk to dissociate itself from such measures.

A group of 13 international NGOs issued a joint statement condemning the Thai authorities’ use of teargas and water cannon at previous protests, while the human rights lawyer Amal Clooney, co-president of the Clooney Foundation for Justice, criticised the recent charges brought under lese majesty. “No one should be arrested or imprisoned merely for criticising public officials or a system of government,” she said. “Thailand should not respond to peaceful protests by cracking down on protesters through prosecutions that muzzle speech.” 

A police source told Reuters that 15 protest leaders had been summoned to acknowledge charges in relation to comments made about the king. At a press conference on Wednesday morning police did not confirm details.

Though other charges have been used against demonstrators – including, in some cases, teenagers – the authorities had not previously resorted to lese-majesty.

“This is a signal that the authorities are going to start using increasingly harsh measures to crack down – it’s hard not to read it that way,” said Tamara Loos, a professor at Cornell University in the US. However, such arrests were unlikely to silence young people, she said. “I think the genie is out of the bottle. I don’t think we will see a return to the kinds of self-censorship in public that we saw before.”

Responding to the criticism, a government spokeswoman, Rachada Dhnadirek, said: “The government has been open-minded to rights and freedoms despite many imprudent expressions which offend the majority. The government must use its authorised powers.”





No.12 article:
Report condemns UK over British women and children held in Syria

Citizenship of dozens held in ‘barbaric’ conditions is being removed in ‘systematic way’

British women and children captured after the collapse of Islamic State in Syria are being held in “barbaric” conditions and deprived in a “systematic way” of their UK citizenship, according to a report on their conditions.

As many as 35 British children and 15 British women are being detained by Kurdish forces in two camps, al-Hol and al-Roj, along with thousands of children and women from Syria and around the world. It is Europe’s equivalent of the Guantánamo Bay detention centre, the report says.

The investigation by the London-based Rights and Security International charity says British intelligence officials regularly enter the camps. Once individuals are identified, it is alleged, their UK citizenship is usually swiftly withdrawn.

The report was published the day after the lawyers for Shamima Begum appealed to the supreme court for an opportunity for her to participate in a legal challenge over the removal of her British citizenship.

Conditions inside the camps, according to the study, are “fundamentally unsafe” and amount to “cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment” – a breach of human rights. The organisation sent a researcher into the camps earlier this year.

On average, 25 detainees a month have been dying at al-Hol, it is alleged, with children living in tents and suffering from malnutrition, dehydration and hypothermia. Some have died from burns when tents caught fire, or have been killed in fights.

Guards are said to have shot detainees, sexually abused others and are ordered to forcibly remove boys from their mothers when the children reach the age of 10.

“The camps in which they are being held are fundamentally unsafe environments in which physical violence is common, the conditions are barbaric, and psychological trauma is rife,” the report states.

It adds that women are placed in solitary confinement for months for alleged involvement in unrest or for possessing mobile phones. Last year, a child was reported to have been shot and killed when a stone he was playing with hit a camp guard.

The study urges European countries to fulfil their “legal, political and moral responsibilities and immediately repatriate their citizens”.

Documents, which have been released as part of the Begum case, show that the UK regards British women in the camps who travelled to Syria as a national security risk and does not want them to return home. According to a summary of the case against Begum, 21, the Home Office believes “there are no substantial grounds” to think she faced “a real risk of mistreatment” during her detention in Syria.

The two camps are run by the Kurdish Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria, Europe’s ally against Isis in north-east Syria. A few detainees are said to have been repatriated, including some “British children … in November 2019 and in September 2020”.

Yasmine Ahmed, the executive director of Rights and Security International, said: “This is Europe’s Guantánamo, but for children. It beggars belief that the UK, who rightly condemned the abuses of Guantánamo Bay, now stand by and let children, including a newborn British baby, die. Now these women and children face another brutal winter with more deaths.

“The claim that it is safer to leave women and children in the camps flies in the face of security experts who say that the real security risk comes from leaving these women and children in the detention camps where they are vulnerable to radicalisation, and where their dire conditions can serve as a recruitment tool.

“Have we learned nothing from the last 20 years on the war on terror? When we place people outside the law, when we deny them rights, treat them with brutality and without humanity, we not only undermine the values we are fighting for but we make ourselves and the world less safe, not more.” The UK government, she said, was using removal of citizenship “in a far more systematic way” than other European countries.

Richard Barrett, a former MI6 director of global counter-terrorism, was interviewed for the report. He said: “The longer they stay without proper assessment of their mental and physical health or their attitudes towards their families, communities and countries – the more unpredictable they will become. And the more difficult it will be to determine what they’re going to do.”

A government spokesperson said: “Depriving someone of their British citizenship is never a decision that is taken lightly, but our priority is always to ensure the safety and security of the UK.

“We have also made it clear that we are willing to repatriate orphans and unaccompanied British children from Syria where this is feasible and there is no risk to UK national security. Every request for consular assistance is considered on a case by case basis. 

“The UK is at the forefront of the humanitarian response in Syria, contributing more than £3bn and funding life-saving supplies such as food, water, healthcare and shelter, including in IDP camps in north east Syria.”





No.13 article:
Bloody offensive aims to eliminate Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which dominated for nearly 30 years

In the centre of Mekelle, the highland capital of Tigray, is a complex of memorials and museums. Under the hot sun, old armoured vehicles, jets and helicopters rust quietly. On the city’s wide avenues, statues commemorate the “martyrs” and the victories of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), a small band of insurgents who became a guerrilla army, launched a successful rebellion and eventually ruled Africa’s second most populous country for almost 30 years.

This week federal Ethiopian forces have closed in on Mekelle in the final stages of a bloody offensive launched earlier this month by Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, with the aim of eliminating the TPLF as a political force.

The TPLF’s rise took 16 years, and its dominance of Ethiopian politics lasted nearly twice as long, but if Abiy’s “law enforcement operation” is successful, its fall will have taken less than 30 months. “It is really shocking. The decline is very dramatic,” said Yohannes Woldemariam, a US-based academic specialising in the Horn of Africa.

The TPLF was formed in 1975 at a time when hundreds of millions of people across Africa and the Middle East were demanding revolutions and liberation. Among those in Ethiopia calling for both were a dozen young men from the mountainous northern region of Tigray. Inspired by Marxist-Leninism, a profound sense of national identity, and the utopian slogans of the time, they imagined a brave new world for their country.

Only a year earlier, Haile Selassie, the last emperor of Ethiopia, had been deposed and murdered by hardline Marxist army officers, who immediately set about imposing a harsh authoritarian rule. In Tigray, there had long been resentment at the power of the centralised Ethiopian state. Many remembered the Tigrayan armed revolt of 1943, which had been brutally put down. This time, the TPLF leaders vowed, they would triumph.

Through the late 1970s the TPLF grew steadily. By 1978 the party had around 2,000 fighters, according to CIA estimates at the time. Two years later it could mobilise twice as many, the agency said.

Among them was Debretsion Gebremichael, who was then a wireless operator and propagandist for the insurgents and is now the group’s leader.

The TPLF’s success owed nothing to chance. Its leaders were ruthless and canny. They fought and destroyed rival rebel groups in Tigray and were careful to downplay their own Marxist views, which would be unpopular with the conservative, devoutly Christian rural populations that made up the TPLF’s initial support base. Instead, they emphasised the threat posed to local traditions and regional autonomy by the socialist policies of the regime in Addis Ababa.

An alliance with like-minded leftist nationalist rebels from the Eritrean People’s Liberation Front (EPLF) in the neighbouring province brought the organisation critical training and experience, which allowed it to resist the massive firepower of the Soviet-backed government regime.

“Ethiopian large-scale military operations to crush [the insurgency] have failed, with heavy losses of men and equipment,” noted the CIA in a 1983 assessment. “The government has paid a high political and economic price.”

But the suffering in Tigray was immense, with blunt and brutal counter-insurgency campaigns playing a significant role in the appalling famine of 1984. The TV reports that prompted global concern and the Live Aid concerts were filmed in Mekelle.

By the end of the 1980s, the TPLF was by far the biggest and most effective among the coalition of Ethiopian armed rebel groups that had united under the banner of the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) to fight the ailing Ethiopian regime. On 28 May 1991, TPLF troops backed by Eritrean forces seized control of Addis Ababa, the capital.

The fall of the regime left the TPLF’s leader, 36-year-old Meles Zenawi, in power and the army and intelligence services dominated by Tigrayans, who moved swiftly to consolidate their control in other sectors. Jobs were found for former comrades. Debretsion, the one-time wireless operator and by now a veteran close to Zenawi, was made the deputy head of the national intelligence agency, and later the minister of communications and information technology.

Debretsion’s career spans the two sides of Ethiopia under the TPLF-dominated coalition government from 1991. There was the construction of a carefully balanced ethnicity-based federal state, rapid development progress, massive infrastructure investment and stunning economic success, which has come close to banishing the hunger that once made the country infamous.

Mekelle thrived, its neat streets and electricity lines testament to the resources channelled to the TPLF’s stronghold.

But there was also repression so remorseless that it worried even the US, which saw Ethiopia as the cornerstone of its security strategy in the region and was prepared to tolerate most of the excesses of the TPLF leadership. 

Meles died suddenly in 2012, and his handpicked successor, Halemariam Desalegn, proved too weak to manage growing tensions. 

Discontent, especially among the two largest ethnic groups – the Oromo and Amhara – threatened the delicate compromise of the 1994 constitution, and representatives of the two communities eventually joined forces to outmanoeuvre the TPLF within the ruling coalition to get Abiy, who is of mixed Oromo-Amharic parentage, appointed as prime minister in 2018.

Abiy moved swiftly. Top TPLF officials were sacked from key security posts, generals were arrested on graft charges, and changes were introduced to counter the Tigrayan dominance of the armed forces. Political prisoners were freed from secret prisons, exiled dissidents were welcomed home, cumbersome state enterprises were privatised, and restrictions on the media were eased.

Abiy’s peace deal with Eritrea, which won him the Nobel peace prize, isolated the TPLF. By this summer, simmering tensions had risen further. The TPLF refused to hand over wanted fugitives or join a new political party set up by Abiy to replace the old ruling coalition, and it went ahead with local elections in Tigray despite polls being postponed nationwide owing to the coronavirus pandemic.

Observers said the decision was a “provocation”, even if supporters claimed it was a necessary defence of federal rights. Abiy’s office says the prime minister has tried to work with the TPLF but has been rebuffed.

The spark that set light to the tinder came in early November with an alleged raid by TPLF units on federal military bases in Tigray, in which many national army officers were killed and substantial quantities of hardware was seized. Abiy launched his offensive immediately.

It has taken federal troops three weeks to fight their way to within artillery range of Mekelle. It is unclear whether Debretsion and the TPLF’s other leaders are now in the city. Analysts think it likely they have scattered, seeking remote hideouts from which they can run a lengthy and costly insurgency.

“They are looking at the long term and trying to make Tigray a burial ground for Abiy’s troops,” Woldemariam said. “It is very tragic. A lot of people will suffer.”





No.14 article:
We would like you to share your tributes for friends and family who have died during the summer months

Covid-19 has now cut short the lives of at least 55,000 Britons. Since October the number of deaths from coronavirus has been on the rise once again, following a summer of eased restrictions and a rise in cases in September. But behind the figures are stories of family, friendship and love. 

As the country continues to grapple with Covid-19, we would like you to share your memories and tributes for those who have died in the second wave - during the months of September, October and November. 

If you’d like to share a tribute to someone who died at another time, please do so here.

You can get in touch by using the encrypted form below. One of our journalists will be in contact before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.15 article:
Australian employers accused of ‘gender equality fatigue’ over pay gap

Data shows ‘troubling’ decline in number of employers taking remedial action to address gender pay gaps

The director of the Workplace Gender Equality Agency has warned Australian employers are on autopilot when it comes to advancing equity, pointing to a “troubling” decline in the number of employers taking remedial action to address gender pay gaps.

New data to be released by the agency on Thursday shows organisations are continuing to conduct gender pay gap analysis, but there has been a six-point drop in the number of employers who reported taking action as a result.

More than 45% of Australian employers who undertook a pay gap analysis took no action to address the inequities they discovered.

The data covers the pre-Covid period, from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. The snapshot covers private sector businesses with 100 or more staff. More than 4 million employees are covered in the dataset, which accounts for more than 40% of Australia’s workforce.

The director of the Workplace Gender Equality Agency, Libby Lyons, said the results this year were disappointing.

“Even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit, I was concerned that Australian employers had become complacent,” Lyons said “The modest rate of change in last year’s results suggested they were in the grip of gender equality fatigue.

“I’m now very disappointed that almost nothing has changed this year.

“It appears to me that Australian employers are on autopilot when it comes to improving gender equality.

“Without ongoing and increased employer action, we are likely to regress and will witness a decline in the many gains achieved over the last few years, such as the gradual reduction of the gender pay gap and more women in leadership roles.”

The survey indicates the total remuneration gender pay gap is 20.1%, which is down 0.7% year on year, but men continue to out-earn women by $25,534 a year on average.

There was a 1.7% increase in the number employers doing a pay gap analysis (up to 46.4% of the reporting companies) but there was a reduction in the number of employers taking action to close gaps (down 6.1% to 54.4%).

There was a slight increase in the number of female chief executives (up 1.2% to 18.3%) and a small rise in the number of female board directors (up 1.3% to 28.1%).

“I always welcome an increase in the number of female CEOs and board directors but we are still decades away from achieving gender balance at the top levels of leadership,” Lyons said. “Progress on this issue remains glacial”.

On the positive side of the ledger for the first time in the seven-year dataset, more than half of employers now offer paid primary carer’s leave, but the agency says access to the entitlements is variable and remains highly dependent on the size and industry of the employer.

The data indicates 52.4% of employers offered paid primary carer’s leave (up 3%) and 46.4% of employers offered paid secondary carer’s leave (up 2.6%).

The agency also reports a strong increase in employer action on family and domestic violence, with a 6.2% jump in employers with a policy or strategy (up to 66.4%) and a 5.2% increase in employer provision of paid domestic violence leave (up to 35.5%).

The same positive trend is evidenced with flexible work arrangements. More employers in the dataset are promoting flexible work (up 3.2% to 75.9%).

But the agency says “an action gap remains” because only 5.7% have set targets for employee engagement and only 2.2% have set targets for men’s engagement.

In terms of workforce composition, men continue to dominate full-time employment. Women are working predominantly in part-time (75.1%) and casual (56.3%) roles. In the dataset, only 38.1% of full-time workers are women.

Lyons said the trends were worrying and the pandemic was likely to intensify problems.

“As we move into the post-Covid recovery phase, we must make sure that women’s workforce participation is not sidelined,” she said. “Our economic recovery depends on women having equal access to secure full-time jobs.”

Lyons said she understood the economic outlook was tough but she urged employers “to redouble their efforts and action in driving better gender equality outcomes in their workplaces and to ensure that they submit reporting data to the agency next year”.

“Gender equality is not just a human rights issue,” she said. “It is good for business and integral to our economic recovery.”





No.16 article:
Police investigated over alleged violence at Paris migrant camp

Reporter claims he was attacked by the same officer ‘three times’ during the evening

Two police officers are being investigated for alleged violent behaviour during an operation to break up a protest migrant camp in Paris.

The public prosecutor’s office announced it had ordered inquiries into two specific complaints against officers dispatched to remove a group of mainly Afghan migrants from Place de la République in the centre of Paris on Monday evening.

One investigation concerns an officer filmed apparently deliberately tripping up a man who was running away from the police, causing him to fall badly. The second concerns a police officer filmed holding a journalist on the ground while appearing to threaten him with a truncheon.

Rémy Buisine, a reporter with the news website Brut, claimed he was attacked by the same officer “three times” during the evening.

Claire Hédon, the independent defender of rights for France, announced she would be looking into the police actions.

Several hundred migrants had set up tents in Place de la République after a call by humanitarian organisations; most had been already thrown out of an ad hoc camp on the northern edge of Paris last week and had nowhere to go.

The French authorities sent in a squadron of mobile gendarmes as well as officers from the anti-crime brigade and several companies from a “security and intervention unit” to break up the camp.

Despite appeals from a number of local councillors, politicians, lawyers and humanitarian organisers, the police set about pulling up tents, tipping their occupants on to the ground, and attempting to disperse the crowds with teargas.

Photographs and video images of the operation spread on social media, prompting the interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, to say that some of the scenes were “shocking” and unacceptable, and to order an inquiry.

However, on Wednesday, Darmanin reiterated his support for the police. “These people were mostly without papers and illegally installed on Place de la République. This clearing [of the camp] was completely legitimate,” he told France 2. “There were unacceptable actions from some police officers … these have to be looked into … those who messed up will be punished.”

The prosecutor’s office has asked the police force’s internal disciplinary body to look into the two accusations of “violence by a person with public authority”.

The police commissioner, Matthieu Valet, who also represents the union Syndicat Indépendant des Commissaires de Police, told Marianne magazine: “The images are disastrous, but this behaviour doesn’t represent the police.”

The row over the operation came as French MPs approved a new law that would prevent media publishing or broadcasting images identifying on-duty police with “deliberate” intent to harm.

Article 24 of the Global Security Law was amended to state it would not threaten the “right to inform”. But critics have said it remains a threat to press freedom.

Valet accused the humanitarian organisations of “using human misery to obtain shocking pictures”, and said police officers were “subjected to violence every day”.

On Tuesday evening, several thousand people gathered in Place de la République to protest against “police violence”. Another demonstration has been called for Saturday.

In a separate affair Hédon has called for “disciplinary action” against four police officers accused of seriously injuring Théo Luhaka, a youth worker, when they arrested him in 2017. Hédon said this action should be separate from any legal move.

The public prosecutor has called for legal proceedings against three of the four officers for violence against Luhaka, who claims an officer sodomised him with a truncheon during the arrest, leaving him with injuries requiring lifelong medical care.





No.17 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Public Health England disputes Warwick University economists’ findings as ‘misleading’

An Excel spreadsheet error that wiped nearly 16,000 English Covid cases from national statistics may have led to more than 1,500 preventable deaths, according to a paper from Warwick University.

Cases that were removed from the record due to the spreadsheet error were also not referred to the NHS test-and-trace operation, meaning people who had been exposed to a Covid sufferer were not told to self-isolate.

An analysis of the data suggests those missed referrals are associated with more than 125,000 additional infections, and 1,500 Covid-19 deaths.

Thiemo Fetzer and Thomas Graeber, economists at Warwick, uncovered the effect thanks to a statistical anomaly in the data. Different parts of England were affected by the error to different degrees – and the number of cases they lost, the academics say, is random enough to treat the error as a “quasi-experiment”.

That means the outcome can be analysed as though some areas were randomly assigned less-effective contact tracing, with others acting as a control group. By comparing the two groups, the paper estimates how effective contact tracing was at saving lives, and how many lives may have been lost due to the error.

“The specific failure of timely contact tracing due to the data glitch is associated with something between 126,836 (22.5% of all cases in the post-treatment period under consideration) and 185,188 (32.8%) additional cases,” they conclude, “and with between 1,521 (30.6% of all deaths) and 2,049 (41.2%) additional Covid-19-related deaths”.

The researchers do, however, “advise caution against taking these effect sizes at face value” due to the complex structure of the pandemic.

“Policy wonks like me often complain that government doesn’t do enough rigorous randomised trials of policy interventions,” said Jonathan Portes, a professor of economics at King’s College London. “This paper argues that a spreadsheet error in the contact-tracing system is the next best thing.

“The good news – if indeed the authors are correct that this was a purely random event – contact tracing really works, and is vitally important to stopping the spread of the virus. The bad news – this one error may have indirectly killed about 1,500 people, and implicitly government delays and failures in contact tracing may be responsible for many more deaths.”

Public Health England disputed the findings. Isabel Oliver, the director of Public Health England’s national infection service, said: “These are misleading estimates. It’s not appropriate to conclude that an increase in cases and deaths at the time was caused by this issue and the authors themselves accept that there is low confidence in their conclusions.

“Our own analysis of the data suggests that the delay in the upload of data files coincided with the increases in cases linked to the return to university and the epidemiological trends we were already seeing in parts of the country.

“Every person received their test result as they would at any other time along with advice to self-isolate. The national guidance states that people with symptoms and their households should immediately self-isolate. In practical terms we know that most close contacts are household contacts, so they would have been aware of their need to isolate.

“The majority of cases affected by this issue were also contact traced within five days, which means it is unlikely the delay led to their close contacts transmitting the virus unknowingly given typical incubation periods.”

callout-coronavirus

The lost cases were the victims of an error in the process by which PHE compiled the national data set by reports from individual testing centres. The data was taken in “CSV” format, a very simple file type, and then exported into the Excel spreadsheets that could be handled by the body’s database.

But the process involved saving the files into an outdated version of the Excel file format, retired in 2013, which could only handle files with 65,536 rows. As a result, any extra data was cut off from the bottom of the sheet – an error that cumulated over the end of September and first two days of October to lose 15,000 cases.

Fetzer had previously produced research estimating the government’s flagship “eat out to help out” scheme may have led to a sixth of all Covid clusters over the summer. “The scheme may have indirect economic and public health costs that vastly outstrip its short-term economic benefits,” he concluded.





No.18 article:
Iranian president upbeat about relations with Biden-led US

Hassan Rouhani tells Tehran cabinet he hopes US will ‘condemn Trump policies against Iran’ and lift sanctions

Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, said on Wednesday it would be easy to solve the country’s problems with the US so long as Joe Biden stuck to the commitments he made on the campaign trail.

Rouhani’s optimistic remarks to a weekly cabinet contrasted with a speech the day before by the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, which sketched out a more difficult path to normalisation and the lifting of sanctions.

But Rouhani, who negotiated the nuclear deal with the Obama administration in 2015, insisted complexities around a fresh negotiation would not occur as long as Bidenthe US president elect, stuck to his commitments.

Rouhani said it was “easy to resolve the issue” provided the US government adhered to mutual respect, distanced itself from the record of Donald Trump, and provided compensation for the impact of sanctions on the Iranian economy. The issue of compensation could prove difficult for the Biden administration, depending on the sums demanded.

Khamenei, by contrast, said “the path to lifting sanctions and years of negotiations” had not been concluded, adding that there was not “likely to be a quick opening from abroad”.

The contrast may reflect real policy differences or simply Rouhani’s desire to justify signing the nuclear deal, a decision that has fed his political enemies and will feature heavily in the presidential elections in June. 

Early progress in the talks between the US and Iran is likely to help reformist candidates if that progress is tangible within Iran by the time the presidential campaign starts. The supreme leader can in effect vet all the candidates.

Rouhani said: “The reason behind Trump’s failure was his wrong foreign policies, wrong health policies and racist military action. He was unreliable to everyone and continued his demagogic and populist behaviour, and thank god that the American people and the people of the region are ridden of this evil … He didn’t even allow $5bn in international aid to reach Iran to fight the coronavirus.”

He added: “We hope that the next US government will clearly condemn Trump’s policies against Iran and make up for the incorrect policies implemented by the former US government in the past four years.”

He vowed that Iran would take reciprocal measures regarding any steps taken by the US government. If the new rulers in the US were determined to decrease tensions and respect the Iranian nation and international undertakings the “resolution of the problem is very easy and Iran and the US can decide to return to the conditions of 20 January 2017 [the date of Trump’s inauguration]”. He added: “The main knots could be untied by determination.”

He portrayed Trump’s defeat as a victory for Iranian resistance. “One of the manifestations of Iran’s victory and the enemy’s definite defeat in the economic war between the two countries was the end of the era of Trumpism.

“I thank the Iranian people for their three-year resistance in the economic war. In Iran we’ve had two sacred defences, one against Iraq and the other against the Trumpists.”

Iran and the US do not have direct diplomatic ties, but a nuclear deal agreed between Tehran, Washington and other world powers in 2015 – negotiated when Barack Obama was in the White House, with Biden as his deputy – saw bilateral tensions dissipate to the lowest level in decades.

Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from that pact in May 2018 and launched a “maximum pressure” campaign against Iran with sanctions that plunged its economy into a deep recession.

Additional reporting by AFP





No.19 article:






No.20 article:
US woman returns ancient Roman marble with letter of apology

In September\n 2020, an Irish tourist was arrested for allegedly carving his initials on a \npillar of the Colosseum. Such an offence could carry a hefty fine or up to a\n year in prison.&nbsp;

In June\n 2020, an Austrian tourist broke the toes of a sculpture by the \nneoclassical artist Antonio Canova at a museum in Treviso after sitting \non it to take a photo. After police tracked the man down, he apologised \nand offered to pay to restore the work.

In\n 2016, a woman who took sand from Budelli, an island off Sardinia famous for its pink sandy beach, returned it after 29 years alongside a\n confessional letter.

In 2015,&nbsp;a brick taken from the Pompeii ruins in 1958 was put up for sale on eBay.

In September\n 2020, an Irish tourist was arrested for allegedly carving his initials on a \npillar of the Colosseum. Such an offence could carry a hefty fine or up to a\n year in prison.&nbsp;

In June\n 2020, an Austrian tourist broke the toes of a sculpture by the \nneoclassical artist Antonio Canova at a museum in Treviso after sitting \non it to take a photo. After police tracked the man down, he apologised \nand offered to pay to restore the work.

In\n 2016, a woman who took sand from Budelli, an island off Sardinia famous for its pink sandy beach, returned it after 29 years alongside a\n confessional letter.

In 2015,&nbsp;a brick taken from the Pompeii ruins in 1958 was put up for sale on eBay.

Museum receives package from woman seeking forgiveness over graffitied artefact

Museum receives package from woman seeking forgiveness over graffitied artefact

When the management of the National Roman Museum received a bulky package sent from overseas, they were not expecting to find inside a fragment of ancient marble inscribed with the message: “To Sam, love Jess, Rome 2017.” 

Accompanying the relic was a letter from a young woman, called Jess, seeking forgiveness “for being such an American asshole”. She went on to say that she took something that was not “rightfully mine”, and was returning it.

“I feel terrible for not only stealing this item from its rightful place, but placing writing on it,” she wrote. “It was a big mistake on my part and only now, as an adult, do I realise just how thoughtless and despicable it was.”

Jess said she tried to scrub off the message, written with a black marker pen, but to no avail.

She is the latest tourist to repent after pilfering an artefact from an Italian cultural site. In October, a Canadian woman called Nicole sent back fragments stolen from the ancient city of Pompeii 15 years ago, claiming they were “cursed”.



In 2015,&nbsp;a brick taken from the Pompeii ruins in 1958 was put up for sale on eBay.

It is unclear where exactly the piece of marble was taken from, but it could have been the site of the Roman Forum, which was the political heart of the Roman empire.

Stéphane Verger, the director of the National Roman Museum, told Il Messaggero newspaper that the package was sent from Atlanta, Georgia.

“From its tone we imagine it was a young woman,” he said. “In 2017 she must have come to Rome, and took this fragment of marble in order to gift it to her boyfriend. It made an impact on me precisely because she is young – she understood that she had made a mistake.”

The incident has left the museum’s management wondering if Jess was encouraged to return the artefact after hearing about Nicole’s widely reported story.

Nicole sent a package containing two mosaic tiles, parts of an amphora and a piece of ceramic to a travel agent in Pompeii, in southern Italy, alongside a letter of confession. She was in her early 20s when she visited the archaeological park in 2005 and blamed the theft for a run of misfortune that had befallen her since, including having breast cancer twice and experiencing financial hardship.

“Who knows,” said Verger. “Maybe she did hear about the Canadian woman. The year 2020, decimated by the Covid pandemic, has made people reflect, as well as moved the conscience. The fact is that three years after the theft, she returned it – it’s a very important symbolic gesture.”

Verger said the marble originated from the quarries of Asia Minor. Jess had prepared the package with care ensuring the relic would arrive safely. “The letter accompanying it was quite moving,” he said.





No.21 article:
Boris Johnson’s &#x27;jet zero&#x27; green flight goal dismissed as a gimmick

Experts says technology alone will not get close to solving aviation’s emissions problems

Boris Johnson’s “jet zero” goal of a commercial transatlantic flight producing no carbon emissions by 2025 is a “gimmick”, according to experts, who say technology alone cannot solve the impact of global aviation on the climate crisis.

Such a flight would not be impossible, the experts said, but could only be a one-off and would encourage the view that other measures such as taxing jet fuel and frequent fliers were not needed to tackle aviation’s carbon problem.

The jet zero technology idea was part of Johnson’s 10-point “green industrial revolution” plan launched last week. But experts called jet zero “severely underfunded”, and pointed out that the government would not begin consulting on a strategy to decarbonise aviation until next year.

The UK has also not demanded green action from airlines in return for coronavirus bailouts, unlike France. The pandemic has halved passenger numbers but the industry expects them to recover by 2024. However, the experts also praised the UK for taking some action, given that only a few countries are even beginning to tackle an issue seen as one of the most difficult climate challenges.

The aviation industry says more efficient planes and buying millions of tonnes of carbon offsets can compensate for big future increases in passenger numbers. Independent experts say new taxes to deter flying are vital, and agree with the aviation industry that green jet fuels are needed too. These exist and could power long-haul flights, but are currently expensive. Long-haul electric or hydrogen planes are unlikely before the middle of the century, if ever, by which time emissions should already have been cut to zero.

“We will position the UK at the forefront of aviation,” says Johnson’s green plan. “British innovation will unlock the world of sustainable fuels [to] allow the opportunity of global travel whilst also safeguarding our planet.”

The jet zero council, which brings together ministers and industry chief executives, has met once, in July. The prime minister told the group he wanted “ambitious goals for aviation, such as the first zero-emission commercial transatlantic passenger flight by 2025”, according to published minutes.

Johnson’s green plan said a £15m competition to support the production of sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) in the UK would be held in 2021, alongside a consultation on introducing a requirement to blend green fuels into kerosene, “possibly starting in 2025”. Another £15m is to be spent on a 12-month “fly zero” study examining zero-emission aircraft that could fly from 2030.

“I guess enough [SAF] could be produced to fuel a single, one-off operation in 2025 but that would of course just be a gimmick – anything beyond that would be very much unrealistic,” said Chris Lyle, the chief executive of the Air Transport Economics consultancy and a former official at the International Civil Aviation Organization, a UN agency. Regulations would also have to be changed to allow 100% SAF to be used.

Dan Rutherford, a programme director the International Council on Clean Transportation, said: “It would be like a crash space programme to plant a flag on the moon, without knowing when you’d go back again.”

Stefan Gössling, a professor at Linnaeus University in Sweden, said such a flight might even be technically feasible by 2022, but would reinforce the industry’s suggestion that “we will resolve the problem [with technology] – keep flying”.

Lyle said: “Technology alone can in no way get close to solving aviation’s emissions problems.” The omission from the UK plans of other measures such as taxes was “emphatically a mistake”, he said. The lack of tax on jet fuel gives aviation an unfair advantage against train and coach travel, Lyle added.

Gössling said: “The challenge of greening aviation is massive. I cannot see any other option than non-biogenic synthetic fuels.” These are fuels made using green electricity to combine CO2 and hydrogen. Biofuels made from crops can have large carbon footprints and compete with food production. Producing jet fuel from non-recyclable waste is another possibility.

Gössling said a carbon tax on kerosene was needed to pay for the climate damage it caused and deter the growth in air travel, adding that such a tax would also make green synthetic fuels more cost-competitive.

He said a frequent flyer tax was unlikely to curb demand among the wealthy “super-emitters” who cause half of all emissions, but could help fund synthetic fuel development and other research.

According to Rutherford, the UK’s jet zero goals are “aggressive” but also “severely underfunded”. He said the latest research estimated commercial SAF plants were likely to cost £600m–£700m while new conventional aircraft cost at least $10bn (£7.5bn) to develop. “Fifteen-million-pound investments are something that could excite academics but aren’t going to move the needle in any significant way on electric or hydrogen aircraft, for example,” Rutherford said.

Tim Johnson, the director of the Aviation Environment Federation, who sits on the jet zero council, said: “A few funding initiatives plus lots of ambition won’t get the industry anywhere near net zero.” He said regulation and taxes were needed, as well as the inclusion of international aviation emissions in the national carbon plans submitted to the UN. Currently they are exempt.

Removing the exemption, said Lyle, “would give individual countries more incentive to do something about them”.

Lyle was dismissive of the UN aviation body’s efforts to cut emissions, saying: “The ICAO is still studying the ‘feasibility’ of an aspirational long-term emissions goal for aviation, which it was given a mandate for by its assembly in 2010.”

Gössling said the UK’s aviation goals placed it among the leading nations, but only because ambition was absent in most countries. A spokesman for the IATA, which represents the airlines industry, said: “The UK is a leading country when it comes to action on emissions.”

Gössling said rather than a single transatlantic zero-emissions flight in 2025, a better UK goal would be to ensure that by 2025, 10% of all fuels used will come from renewable sources, or even better, will be non-biogenic synthetic fuels.

A few other nations including France already have such fuel mandates. Norway’s is the most ambitious, requiring 30% from renewable sources by 2030. But airlines, such as those in the US, oppose SAF mandate proposals.

“The timing needs to be realistic,” said the IATA spokesman. “It will take time to scale up production. It usually takes three to four years to build a plant, so I think a five-year window [to 2025] to get supply up and running is necessary.”

He added: “We believe we can solve the problem of CO2 emissions with technology. There is a growing body of research that says we have clear pathways to achieving our 2050 goals of a 50% reduction in emissions from 2005 levels and quite possibly zero emissions from 2060-65, through the scaling up of SAF, and future technology like electric and hydrogen-powered flight, from 2035. Offsetting is also available but we currently see this as a short-term measure while technology is scaled up.”

Sustainable Aviation, a UK industry group, has set out a road map to net zero emissions that allows for a 70% growth in passengers by 2050 and relies heavily on buying carbon offsets elsewhere.

Andy Jefferson, the group’s programme director, said there was no “silver bullet” for dealing with aviation carbon emissions but there was clear evidence that taxes had no environmental benefits and were the least effective way to reduce emissions. “With the right [government] support, we do not see the need to impose additional demand reduction measures,” he said.

Tim Johnson said any financial assistance to aviation from taxpayers should come with the requirement of action: “Talk of incentives and funding is misplaced when the industry is only offering voluntary commitments in return. Technology aspirations shouldn’t provide continued cover for the industry to get away with no effective accountability, tax or regulation on its emissions.”

“Jet zero isn’t a substitute for the government setting out the policies required to set the UK aviation sector on a trajectory to net zero emissions,” said Johnson. “A cleaner and leaner air travel sector will mean we need to fly less, and we shouldn’t be expanding our airports.”





No.22 article:
Photographers against Oppression print sale for Belarus – in pictures

Photographers against Oppression have organised a print sale to raise money for those adversely affected by recent events in Belarus. More than 16,000 people have been detained for taking part in peaceful protests in the wake of disputed election results, according to the Viasna human rights organisation based in Minsk





No.23 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Local leaders warn of anger if too many areas end up with highest restrictions when lockdown ends

Boris Johnson is facing an increasingly bitter fight over placing English regions into the new levels of coronavirus lockdown, with MPs and council leaders warning the government of significant anger if too many areas end up in the top tier.

The government is expected to tell local regions across England over the course of Thursday which of the three tiers they will be in, under a new plan for the winter that comes into operation once the national lockdown ends on 2 December.

There is widespread expectation that almost no regions will be in the bottom tier, and the main fight is over not being placed in tier 3, under which pubs, restaurants and hospitality businesses can only operate as takeaways, and almost all household mixing is barred.

Council leaders in London say they expect the entire capital to be placed in tier 2, which has slightly looser restrictions, and where hospitality businesses can open with limitations, and that public health advice backed this. One leader said there would be “serious kickback”, including from Conservatives in the capital, if it did not happen. However, others in the capital said the decision was in the balance.

Nigel Evans, the MP for Ribble Valley in Lancashire, said Johnson would have a Zoom call with about 22 members of the Northern Research Group of MPs on Wednesday night, during which discussion about tiers would be top of the agenda.

Evans, a Commons deputy speaker, cautioned against putting Ribble Valley and Chorley – which have had lower infection rates than other parts of the county – into high restriction tiers.

“The figures in Chorley and the Ribble Valley have been greatly reduced and it would be unhelpful if we were lumped in with other parts of Lancashire simply because their figures are higher,” he said.

Evans added: “There is no incentive with this ‘all in the same bucket’ approach and there should be some recognition for those areas that have managed to bring their numbers down.”

Seven Conservative MPs from Kent have sent Matt Hancock, the health secretary, a letter urging him to introduce tiers across a borough or district level, rather than always putting whole counties in the same level.

“The differences across the county are large and communities need to be treated appropriately,” said Tom Tugendhat, the Tory MP for Tonbridge and one of the letter’s signatories.

The Birmingham Perry Barr MP, Khalid Mahmood, said the “mood music” was that the city was heading towards the highest tier 3 restrictions. The city is in the top 30 in England, with an infection rate of 351 cases per 100,000 people, down from last week’s 388 cases.

“An initial two weeks was talked about with a review during that period,” he said.

He added: “It was agreed that we should as MPs make representations on the hospitality industry in particular, asking for greater clarity on criteria, the giving of more notice and necessary economic support. Liam [Byrne, MP for Hodge Hill] will anchor for us on that.”

Johnson faces sufficiently strong opposition among Conservatives that it is possible he may need to rely on Labour to pass the measures when MPs vote on them in the Commons next week.

One backbench Conservative said he felt the relatively muted response to the plans in the Commons when the tiers were outlined by Johnson on Monday was “about as good as it’s going to get” for the government.

“I suspect lots of MPs were willing to give it a chance, particularly with the announcement about the vaccine,” the MP said. “But once we hear the news about which area is in what tier, particularly if virtually nowhere is in tier 1, it could start to get much more difficult.”

The MP said they were unlikely to support the measures, whatever happened with tiering: “I suspect the best they’ll get out of me is an abstention.”

Another Conservative MP said Johnson was likely to be pressed for more financial support for the hospitality sector on a Zoom call with “red wall” Tories later on Wednesday. He said there had been little support for suppliers, brewers or producers – particularly in areas under restrictions for months – and wants the government to scrap business rates for another year.

Paul Foster, the Labour leader of South Ribble council, warned the government against putting the whole of Lancashire into tier 3, saying he would consider legal action if his district was again put under the highest restrictions.

Over the past seven days, South Ribble had an infection rate of 212.1 per 100,000, lower than the English average of 230 per 100,000.

Foster said: “If we are going into tier 3 all hell will break loose, it’s going to kick off. There’s a concern they are going to put the whole county of Lancashire into tier 3. I would even consider legal action to challenge it.

callout-coronavirus

“The more I look at this, the numbers of infections are tumbling down in the north of England apart from a few hotspots – and those hotspots accept that they will need help bringing their cases down. The government has got itself in a pickle over this because infections are rising in London while they are falling here.”

Leaders in Greater Manchester are also understood to be seeking a united front to ensure the whole region goes into tier 2, although some local Conservative MPs want to avoid constituencies with lower Covid case rates being grouped in with worse-hit areas.

Some leaders were briefed by the Cabinet Office on Wednesday. One person involved said they were warned against leaking information, “which is amusing since Downing Street has more leaks than my wooden boat restoration”.





No.24 article:
Abiy Ahmed faces growing calls to end conflict that threatens to destabilise eastern Africa

Abiy Ahmed, the prime minister of Ethiopia, has forcefully rejected efforts by international powers to bring hostilities in the north of the country to an end.

Abiy’s statement on Wednesday came hours before a deadline for the surrender of the leadership of the restive region of Tigray expires, after which federal troops have been ordered to attack its capital, Mekelle.

There are growing calls for mediation to halt a conflict that threatens to destabilise a swath of east Africa. Hundreds, possibly thousands of people, have died so far, and many more forced to flee their homes.

The leader of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the ruling party in the region, said on Tuesday his people were “ready to die” defending their homeland, rejecting the prime minister’s Sunday night demand that they lay down their arms within 72 hours.

Abiy launched the military campaign against the TPLF on 4 November, accusing it of attacking federal military camps in the northern region and seeking to destabilise the country.

The 44-year-old leader, who won the Nobel peace prize last year, said the TPLF had orchestrated a “spate of violent attacks” across Ethiopia to “frustrate the democratisation process”.

“A fundamental element of the international legal order is the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of sovereign states … We respectfully urge the international community to refrain from any unwelcome and unlawful acts of interference,” Abiy said.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

In his first year in office after coming to power in 2018, Abiy released thousands of political prisoners and pushed through a series of changes. Some of these were reversed in his second year, amid a rise in political and ethnic tension.

Officials in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, describe the offensive in Tigray as a “law enforcement operation” aiming to remove “traitorous” rebel leaders and restore central authority. The TPLF says it is defending its legitimate rights under Ethiopia’s devolved constitutional system.

The federal army has told reporters its forces are within 37 miles (60km) of Mekelle, the seat of the TPLF.

The army has threatened a “no mercy” assault on the city, warning civilians to distance themselves from the TPLF and leave while they can. The threat has prompted global concern, with human rights campaigners saying it could breach international legal codes.

Abiy has urged the people of Mekelle to side with the national army against the TPLF “in bringing this treasonous group to justice”.

TPLF officials have denied Mekelle is surrounded and its spokesman, Getachew Reda, said an important army unit – which he named as the 21st mechanised division – was destroyed in an assault at Raya-Wajirat led by a former commander of that unit now fighting for the TPLF. The prime minister’s spokeswoman, Billene Seyoum, denied the claim.

However, the clash appears to have taken place 15-20 miles (25-35km) from Mekelle, suggesting federal troops have advanced a considerable distance into Tigray from the border with neighbouring Amhara province, from where most of their forces started two weeks ago.

By invoking the principle of non-intervention, Abiy hopes to rally support from other African countries and rebuff intensifying pressure from the United Nations, the US, the EU and other powers for a ceasefire, analysts said.

The UN security council scheduled, cancelled, then rescheduled its first meeting to discuss the situation on Tuesday as African and European nations argued over holding a debate.

The EU, which is a major aid donor to Ethiopia, also expressed concern over “increasing ethnic-targeted violence, numerous casualties and violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law”.

The African Union chair, South Africa’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa, has backed sending three high-level envoys for Ethiopia, an initiative the UN praised for “efforts to peacefully resolve the conflict”, but which seems to have lost momentum.

Officials in Addis Ababa have said any envoys would not be allowed to meet the TPLF leadership.

Ethiopia has long been a linchpin of US policy in the fragile east African region and so far Washington has supported Abiy.

Tibor Nagy, the US assistant secretary for African affairs, said last week: “This is not two sovereign states fighting. This is a faction of the government running a region that has decided to undertake hostilities against the central government.”

However, Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser-designate for the US president-elect, Joe Biden, said on Wednesday he was “deeply concerned about the risk of violence against civilians, including potential war crimes, in the fighting around Mekelle in Ethiopia” and called for an immediate start to dialogue involving both sides facilitated by the African Union.

A communications blackout in the region has made claims from both sides difficult to verify.





No.25 article:
&#x27;The people are not afraid any more&#x27;: young Peruvians rise up to demand change

After a tumultuous week, Peru’s burgeoning grassroots movement says it will not accept a return to business as usual

After a tumultuous week in which Peru saw three presidents – and a brutal police backlash against massive pro-democracy protests – a nascent youth movement has emerged with a clear message to the country’s politicians.

Under the rallying cry “They messed with the wrong generation”, the non-partisan group is warning Peru’s elected representatives that they will not tolerate a return to the business-as-usual world of dirty tricks and backroom deals.

The grassroots movement claimed another victory on Tuesday, when the caretaker president, Francisco Sagasti, announced an overhaul of the police force, appointing a new police chief and sacking more than a dozen top brass officers.

In a televised address to the nation, Sagasti also expressed his “deep regret” for the heavy-handed police repression in which two young people died and others were gravely injured. He also apologized for incidents in which police humiliated young women, allegedly forcing them to strip naked.

But the 76-year-old engineer and his caretaker government must tread a fine line between maintaining legitimacy with a newly awakened, social media-driven, political movement, and an opposition-dominated congress, which could use impeachment powers to remove him, as it did with former president Martín Vizcarra.

Diego Cruz, a 33-year-old publicist, was one of tens of thousands of Peruvians who marched against the “coup-mongers” who voted by 105-19 to remove Vizcarra amid unproven bribery allegations.

“It’s not just one generation marching here, it’s everyone, because we feel outraged that [congress] is carving up the country,” he said.

“The people are not afraid any more,” said Erika Ríos, a 47-year-old lawyer who wore the red and white colours of the Peruvian flag. “This congress doesn’t represent us.”

The scale of the pro-democracy protests took Peru’s political class by surprise, said Kenneth Roberts, a professor of Latin American politics at Cornell University.

“It also sends a powerful warning sign against the abuse of congressional impeachment powers, which lies at the heart of the current crisis,” he said. “Like legislatures in Brazil and Paraguay, Peru’s congress ‘weaponized’ the impeachment tool for transparently self-interested political goals – and Peruvian society has risen up to hold the ringleaders accountable.”

Nine out of 10 Peruvians opposed the ousting of Vizcarra, and 83% believe the decision to do so was motivated by the lawmakers’ political and personal interests, according to a recent poll by the Institute of Peruvian Studies.

With more than half the 130-member chamber enjoying parliamentary immunity from criminal investigations – ranging from murder to money-laundering – Peru’s citizens have long regarded their elected representatives with a mixture of fear and loathing.

“More than [political] parties they seem like cartels,” said Iván Lanegra, secretary-general of the Peruvian NGO Transparencia. “What you have is a collection of parties all vying for control of state resources and public works while promoting their own vested interests.”

The chamber include figures such as Posemoscrowte Chagua – who took part in a deadly 2005 insurrection in which six police officers were killed – and Fernando Meléndez, a former regional governor who faces more than 80 criminal investigations including embezzlement, money laundering and labour exploitation.

Chagua’s party, the extremist Union for Peru (UPP), led the call for Vizcarra’s removal. Run by Antauro Humala, the jailed leader of the failed 2005 military uprising and the younger brother of the former president Ollanta Humala (2011-16), the party is inspired by their father Isaac Humala’s radical “ethnocacerism” creed, which preaches the superiority of “copper-skinned’” Andeans and a xenophobic hatred of Peru’s southern neighbour Chile.

The congressional mixed bag, also includes a fundamentalist Christian party and powerful figures linked to the lucrative for-profit university sector.

Before he was forced from office, Vizcarra’s government was undertaking a quality-control overhaul of the private education – a reform which directly impacted the business interests of José Luna, the founder of Podemos (We Can), and former presidential candidate César Acuña of the Alliance for Progress (APP). Their parties both voted to remove Vizcarra.

Just two days before Vizcarra’s removal, Luna was arrested for allegedly bribing officials to register his party without having enough voters’ signatures. Higher education regulators are shutting Luna’s Telesup University for failing to meet basic standards.

University reform was an important factor driving young people to march against Vizcarra’s departure, said Ricardo Cuenca, who was sworn in as the interim education minister last week.

“Up until a short time ago, we thought that the young were totally disconnected from politics,” said Cuenca, the former director of the Institute of Peruvian Studies.

“I think they are showing us, rather like what happened in Chile, that they are disconnected from an old way of doing politics.”





No.26 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Users speak to Guardian with raw frankness about strange and shocking reality of loss rarely heard in national conversation

Locked behind Facebook’s privacy settings lies what Tony Fitzgerald calls an “exclusive members’ club none of us wanted to join”.

The online forum of more than 2,000 people bereaved by coronavirus is a place where the 65-year-old regularly logs on after the death of his wife from Covid-19 in April. Another member describes the forum as “a secret society”, a place where the bereaved can drop the “just about OK face” they manage in public and let the “crumbling face” of grief show.

Fitzgerald, a father of two from Haydock still haunted by the trauma of his wife Ann’s death, connects with people like Sylvia Bahsoon, whose father, Salim, died from coronavirus. Bahsoon logs on “when I’ve been feeling so sad my heart is about to pop”.

Sioux Hill, whose father, John, died after contracting the virus, says she chats more to people in this group than her family and friends. Shelly Weeks, 47, reeling from the death of her husband, Roy, 73, in April reckons the site has saved her life “more than once”.

This virtual support network is the unseen heart of the Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice UK group. In public, it lobbies for a judge-led public inquiry into the government’s handling of the pandemic and calls for funding for bereavement counselling. But in private it is a different story. About 60 members agreed to give the Guardian a glimpse inside the peculiar, painful and often shocking reality of Covid bereavement.

On a Facebook chat they poured out their experiences. There is the trolling from people who refuse to accept the virus killed their loved ones. Forum members get called “sheep” for accepting coronavirus caused their loved one’s death and people online demand to see death certificates. One member had conspiracy theories yelled at her in a supermarket.

They speak with a raw frankness about the reality of their loved ones’ deaths rarely heard in the national Covid conversation. For example, the anguish of sealed coffins and not being able to dress the deceased. And there is a powerful feeling they are out of step with the rest of the country as it obsesses over tiers and Christmas gatherings that seem to many “insane”. It is as if society, in a kind of collective fight-or-flight mode, remains in denial of the pain caused by Covid deaths.

Jo Goodman set up the group in April after her father’s death was mentioned in an article online. She was disturbed to see comments suggesting he would have died anyway or that she should be blaming the Chinese government. There was one sympathetic comment, by Matt Fowler, who was also bereaved and the pair agreed on the need for a place only for Covid families.

“Sometimes it feels like you’re living in an alternate reality to others,” said Goodman. “To them it’s been disruptive and difficult but to us it’s been world-shattering. My phone has popped up and there have been 598 deaths in the past 24 hours. Only people who’ve lost someone know how hearing that kind of thing just makes your stomach turn, knowing all the families behind the numbers. Knowing this is still going on is a kind of ongoing trauma so being around people who understand is so important.”

Too often relatives and friends don’t understand. Becky from west London, whose 77-year-old father died from the virus, was reduced to tears when a friend boasted she and her parents had not been following the lockdown rules. “It seemed so hard-hearted as she knew how devastated I felt not being able to say goodbye to him.” Emma in Kent split from her boyfriend of 18 months because “he questioned my father’s death and said it couldn’t possibly be Covid as it didn’t exist”.

Covid grief has a different quality, says Weeks, whose mother and father died in 2017 and 2019.

“I grieved and still do, but they had a proper funeral, they had a wake, all the family united and spoke about the good times,” she says. When her husband died in April the funeral was “stark”.

“Ten chairs were spaced out in the crematorium and it felt surreal and impersonal. There were no family hugs outside whilst I collapsed in grief … the darkness that swept over me, the shock that I would never hold my husband ever again.”

The Facebook group is “like a comfort blanket” to her. She checks in at all times of the day and night, as does Karen Fraser-Knight, 55, from Widnes, whose twin sister, Paula died from coronavirus.

“It’s more like a trauma than grief,” says Fraser-Knight. “[Covid is] the topic of conversation, it’s in the papers, on TV, it’s a constant … so we will never be able to move on from this. I have flashbacks to what my twin must have gone through. Because I wasn’t allowed to be with her, say goodbye to her, arrange her funeral as she wanted. We can’t grieve … we live in this perpetual state of Covid trauma.”

It is a “safe” place where others understand the peculiarities of Covid grief and free from trolls, users said. But not everyone finds the forum always helpful.

“The group itself, while incredibly supportive, can also be triggering as I read the stories of loss and pain that others have suffered,” says Rivka Gottlieb, whose father, Michael, died from the virus. “I have had to limit the amount of time I spend reading posts.”

callout-coronavirus

Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice is a place for solutions as well as sharing. Its representatives have met with the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, and provided evidence to Amnesty International’s study into care home deaths. Its members help each other practically – for example obtaining loved ones’ medical notes. It is a channel for anger at government failures, such as the timing of the first lockdown in March some feel cost lives. And it is a community that can share a sense of horror at this autumn’s resurgent death toll.

But ultimately it is a shelter from a country not ready yet to face the scale and unique shape of Covid bereavement.

From his home in Tamworth, Mark Jennings logs on daily. His brother Nigel, 54, died in April after catching coronavirus while in hospital and then his older brother, Colin, 59, died seven weeks later having been diagnosed with lung cancer. Jennings believes Covid contributed to Colin’s death too.

“I check in every day, look at all the lost souls, read the heart-wrenching stories; everyone searching for answers or someone to listen,” he said. “I cry, pray and yearn for this not to be true. Reality strikes, then it’s diazepam, endless dreams and maybe two hours of sleep.”

Beside his bed he keeps two small phials. They contain his brothers’ ashes.





No.27 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Fears easing restrictions over festive period will lead to rise in cases and overwhelm NHS

Government scientists have warned the relaxation of coronavirus restrictions over Christmas could lead to a third wave of the pandemic, with increased transmission and unnecessary deaths.

Families across the UK will be able to gather in three-household groups of any size over Christmas, the government has announced, prompting warnings from scientists that the plan will almost inevitably result in a rise in the number of coronavirus cases.

The long-planned idea of “Christmas bubbles” – which ministers said would require people to make a “personal judgment” over the risk older relatives and others – was thrashed out in a meeting involving the four UK governments.

However, some scientists have warned strongly against encouraging families to mix indoors in winter. Two advisers to the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) have said the relaxation will lead to the NHS being overwhelmed

“Effectively what this will be doing is throwing fuel on the Covid fire. I think it will definitely lead to increased transmission. It is likely to lead to a third wave of infection, with hospitals being overrun, and more unnecessary deaths,” Prof Andrew Hayward told BBC Two’s Newsnight programme.

“We are still in a country where we have got high levels of infection with Covid, particularly in young people. Bringing them together for hours, let alone days, with elderly relatives, I think, is a recipe for regret for many families. With the vaccine on the way, if we are not very careful over Christmas we are really in danger of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory on this one.”

Prof Graham Medley, an expert in infectious disease modelling at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said the relaxation could lead to further lockdown measures in the new year.

“I think it is inevitable that if a lot of people do take that risk, even if it is a small risk, then we will end up with a lot of people in hospital and potentially having to take measures in January to lock down again,” he said.

Medley advised people to isolate before visiting relatives and to remain “completely faithful” to any social bubble arrangements and weighing the risk of spreading the disease to those who are vulnerable.

Many politicians agreed with the scientists, with the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, also expressing fears about the NHS being overrun in the new year.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

“[The government] is allowing too much. They have given the green light for Christmas but what price will people have to pay. The government has not got the balance right. This is too much,” he told ITV’s Good Morning Britain. “They are worried about the headlines – that is what has driven this decision.”

But the Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, denied that the agreement to allow households to meet for Christmas was “headline seeking”.

“Our decision is based on the calculation that this is the safest way – not a completely safe way, not a risk-free way – but the safest way that we can offer,” he said. Drakeford said the decision to agree a relaxing of restrictions was to avoid a “free for all”.

callout-coronavirus

“I think it was very clear to us from the advice we received at the Cobra meeting, but also from what we hear in Wales, that unless we found a formula that allowed people to get together over Christmas, people were very unlikely to be willing to stick to the current level of restrictions that we have here in Wales,” Drakeford told Good Morning Britain.

“So the choice was between a guided form of meeting over Christmas or people simply making their own solutions.”





No.28 article:
Millions of Americans to travel and gather for Thanksgiving despite expert warnings

Recent surveys show a meaningful minority of Americans intend to go ahead with travel and gatherings for the holiday

Millions of Americans are traveling and gathering for the Thanksgiving holiday, despite dire and urgent warnings from US doctors, nurses, health authorities and hospitals not to do so.

The travel raises the possibility of a “surge superimposed on a surge”, in the words of Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, and of a wave of deaths as Christmas arrives.

“There is so much community transmission all over the United States that the chances of you encountering somebody that has Covid-19 is actually very, very high, whether it’s on an airplane, at the airport or at a rest area,” said Dr Syra Madad, an infectious disease epidemiologist for New York City hospitals.

Nearly 12.5 million Americans have been diagnosed with Covid-19 and more than 258,000 have died, according to the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker. Doctors and nurses have reported severe burnout, and some healthcare facilities have seen emerging staff shortages. States such as North Dakota have recently led the world in the death rate from the disease.

Despite this, several recent surveys show a meaningful minority of Americans have not changed Thanksgiving plans, and intend to go ahead with travel and gatherings.

A New York Times survey showed more than a quarter of Americans still planned to dine with people outside their household. An Axios-Ipsos poll found 39% of Americans had not changed their travel plans at all, while 61% have decided to limit gatherings to those only in their household, have small dinners and avoid travel.

AAA, which is best known for its roadside assistance program, forecasts travel quarterly. The group found most people were planning shorter trips in cars this year, as opposed to cross-country travel by train, plane or bus. Air travel is down 47.5% from 2019.

Stephen Browning, a retired executive from Tucson, Arizona, will be flying to Seattle for Thanksgiving with his sister. The celebration usually has up to 30 people. This year only 10 are coming, and everyone was asked to get a coronavirus test. He doesn’t plan on removing his mask to eat or drink on the flight.

“This is my first flight since December 2019, so, yes, I have concerns,” said Browning. “But I think most airlines are acting responsibly now and enforcing masks on all flights.”

The Thanksgiving season now comes in the midst of recent good news about vaccine development, which some doctors and health officials hoped would serve as an incentive for people to take precautions against the virus.

The surge and repeated public health warnings appears to have led to a “wait-and-see” travel cohort, which surveys show will likely travel by car and may decide very late whether to cancel plans.

“The wait-and-see travel trend continues to impact final travel decisions, especially for the Thanksgiving holiday,” said Paula Twidale, senior vice-president of AAA Travel. As a result, car travel is only expected to drop 4.3% this year.

In one microcosm of Americans’ potential travel plans, a survey by the mobility app Moovit found 23% of people in the New York and New Jersey area would still “probably” travel, a drop of almost half year-over-year. That is despite health officials’ recommendations to stay home, and the region’s severe experience last spring when more than 2,000 people a day died of Covid-19.

Historical trends have shown the “second wave” of respiratory viruses – typically in the cooler, fall weather – tend to be more severe than initial outbreaks, experts said. That is a history some worry Americans are about to repeat.

“This wave will surely be as bad as the first wave and could be twice as bad,” said Dr Nicholas Christakis, a professor at Yale’s Institute for Network Science and recent author of Apollo’s Arrow: The Profound and Enduring Impact of Coronavirus on the Way We Live.

“I’m very worried we’re just not doing the right things we need to do as a nation, and it’s going to be bad, get worse,” Christakis said on the Journal of the American Medical Association’s daily podcast.

In addition to people traveling for the Thanksgiving holiday, millions of college students will also return home, as universities send potentially infected students back to family members.

In an interview with Washington Post Live on Monday, Fauci said the entire country was in “a very steep escalation of cases”.

“When you do the things that are increasing the risk [of spreading Covid-19] – the travel, the congregate settings, the masks – the chances are you will see a surge superimposed upon a surge,” Fauci said.

A high degree of Covid-19 spread over the holiday could help result in the US hitting upwards of 300,000 deaths this year, Fauci said, just as the nation heads into Christmas.

Ultimately, the extent of spread over the holiday weekend will remain unknown for two weeks because of the coronavirus’s long incubation period. Deaths from infections acquired over Thanksgiving will follow further behind, because Covid-19 takes weeks to kill its victims.

Life, “will be getting better and better as the months go by”, Fauci said, urging Americans to wait for vaccines to gather indoors without masks.

“You want to hang in there, not get infected, not infect your loved ones, because there is help that is close by,” he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report





No.29 article:
Support group warns that large gatherings are too risky and calls for low-key festive period 

People bereaved by Covid-19 have warned that allowing families in the UK to get together over Christmas is “sheer madness” and urged the public to have a low-key festive period rather than risk the grief they have endured.

Members of the Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice group told the Guardian that large family gatherings were too high-risk, with one grieving husband saying anyone prepared to mix family groups should also “prepare for a funeral”.

The stark warnings came alongside acknowledgement that limited contact would be good for mental health. But it also reflects a wider feeling among many of the bereaved that, with coronavirus vaccines in sight, any fresh increase in deaths must be seen as unacceptable.

On Tuesday, the government briefed that three households will be allowed to mix for five days from 23 December. Public health experts predict it will increase infection but allow isolated families to come back together before a return to stricter lockdown conditions in January.

Bev Mead, 59, who lost her mother to coronavirus, described it as a “terrifying prospect – it’s literally like sacrificing your loved ones for a slice of turkey and some brussels sprouts”.

Shelly Weeks compared the policy to “playing Russian roulette”. “The death rate will soar after Christmas, and again the government will deny they did anything wrong,” she said. “Can’t people just wait an extra few months when hopefully the vaccine is being rolled out? I know I’ve lost and am grieving but people need to look at the bigger picture.”

Louise Birkett, who lost her 80-year-old mother, Dilys, said the policy seemed to be an acknowledgment that people would have breached tighter restrictions at Christmas, but added: “I hope that the families who do take advantage don’t suffer the way we have.”

“If people knew the true risk, they would not take it,” said Sam Swales, whose partner, a key worker in the oil and gas industry, died from Covid. “We have a potential end in sight and we need to focus on saving as many lives as possible. There should be a massive campaign to encourage people to have a low-key Christmas.”

Their comments came as Devi Sridhar, professor of global public health at the University of Edinburgh, told a Commons committee: “The virus doesn’t care if it’s Christmas. We still have pretty high prevalence across the country. It is risky for people to mix indoors with alcohol with elderly relatives at this point in time.”

Tony Fitzgerald, 65, who lost his wife, Ann, also 65, said: “The younger, fitter, healthier people out there may very well be infected and pull through. Would your gran, grandad or any older relative come through if infected? If you’re prepared to take that risk, be prepared for a funeral, it might be the last time you see them.”

However, Becky Kummer, whose 77-year-old father, Peter, died in April, said the Christmas bubbles plan was the “right decision under difficult circumstances”, as it would be good for mental health and morale.

“There is still of course a huge risk with mixing this way and it will be awful if stories emerge of whole families getting infected, and worse,” she said. “But I think if they had said we all need to stay with the lockdown we currently have, people would’ve broken the rules anyway.”







No.30 article:
Four UK governments agree relaxed rules, and scientists expect rise in cases to follow

Families across the UK will be able to gather in three-household groups of any size over Christmas, the government has announced, bringing warnings from scientists that the plan will almost inevitably see a rise in the number of coronavirus cases.

The long-planned idea of “Christmas bubbles” – which ministers said would require people to make a “personal judgment” over risk for older relatives and others – was thrashed out in a meeting involving the four UK governments.

It will allow people to travel around freely from 23 to 27 December, irrespective of what local tier of Covid restrictions they live in. The relaxation ends on 28 December, and all areas will immediately revert to their previous Covid rules, including over new year.

There will be no social distancing for the united households, meaning people can, for example, hug relatives, while being urged to consider the risks of this for older or otherwise clinically vulnerable loved ones.

The households will be able to meet inside homes, in outdoor public spaces, and at places of worship. However, they will not be allowed to gather in pubs or other hospitality settings, and otherwise the same rules for the local tier will stay in place.

The details emerged as the UK recorded its highest daily coronavirus death toll since mid-May, with 608 people having died within 28 days of testing positive.

While the Christmas plan was agreed by all the devolved governments, some doubts remain, with the Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, saying he had “hesitation” because of the extent of coronavirus infections.

Despite this, he said: “It is better that we have a common set of arrangements that give people a framework that they can manage within and act responsibly within.”

The Scottish first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, also urged people to think carefully about their Christmas plans, saying: “Just because you can mix with others indoors over this time, that doesn’t mean you have to.”

A joint statement from the four governments also stressed that meeting family members “will be a personal judgment for individuals to take, mindful of the risks to themselves and others, particularly those who are vulnerable”.

Some scientists have warned strongly against encouraging families to mix indoors in winter, particularly as there is expectation of widespread vaccinations by the spring. One member of the Independent Sage group of experts said last week it could involve “having a very merry Christmas and then burying friends and relations in January and February”.

Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said Covid spread most easily amid close contact indoors over long periods.

“These are exactly the conditions the government seems to be encouraging,” he said. “There is almost no advice on imaginative ways of celebrating the festivities, despite the long history of outdoor seasonal events in this country, and only the briefest mention of ways to reduce the risks indoors, for example by increasing ventilation.”

Paul Hunter, professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, said the Christmas plan could be seen as “what we need to make it through the rest of winter”, but would bring a real risk of increased infections.

He said: “The issue is whether that increased risk is tolerable in relation to the benefits. At that time schools will be closed so there would naturally be some downward pressure on transmission.”

Giving evidence to a Commons committee shortly before the announcement, Devi Sridhar, professor of global public health at the University of Edinburgh, said a festive respite would have consequences.

“I guess I have to speak bluntly -: the virus doesn’t care if it’s Christmas,” she said. “We still have pretty high prevalence across the country. It is risky for people to mix indoors with alcohol with elderly relatives at this point in time.”The plan, finalised at a Cobra meeting chaired by the Cabinet Office minister, Michael Gove, contains some inevitable compromises, complications and variations, and some elements still have to be finalised.

For example, if a family has three or more grown-up children, not all of them will be able to come to the parental home, unless one or more is at university – students who return at the end of term are treated as being part of the home household.

There will also be some national variations. For example, in England, house sharers will be able to disperse to different family homes as separate household bubbles. However, in Scotland they will count as the same household, and cannot.

Also, people heading to and from Northern Ireland will be granted an extra day on either side of the Christmas window, to allow for the more complex trip.

The government is also still due to produce guidance on activities such as carol singing, with some Conservative MPs lobbying for this to be allowed.

In a letter signed by the former ministers Andrea Leadsom, Tracey Crouch and Esther McVey, the culture secretary, Oliver Dowden, is urged to make the charitable act possible over the Christmas period.

“Carol singing is a fundamental part of the UK’s culture, an essential outdoor element of the spiritual uplift that Christmas brings and it raises millions for good causes across the country,” says the letter, seen by the Guardian. “It is vital that it is allowed to take place so that people are given hope and joy at the end of what has been a very gloomy year.”

The announcement comes a day after Boris Johnson unveiled a plan for new local tiers to come into force in England when the current lockdown restrictions end on 2 December.

This will put regions in one of three tiers of ascending strictness, with more areas expected to be placed in the top two levels. In England, after the Christmas relaxation, areas will return to the same tier on 28 December.

Johnson faces a potentially significant battle with Tory backbenchers over concerns about which areas go in which tiers, a decision set to be announced on Thursday.

Sources said the government’s “gold” Covid group, usually consisting of Matt Hancock, the health secretary, Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, and other public health officials, was due to meet on Tuesday evening to come to an agreement about this process.





No.31 article:
Wednesday briefing: Sunak's difficult second mini-budget

Chancellor to lay out coronavirus impact and how to fix it … Biden: ‘This is not a third Obama term’ … rules unveiled for ‘Christmas bubbles’

by  Warren Murray

Hello, Warren Murray with your Wednesday morning news. If you are new around here, don’t worry – you’ll catch on quickly.

The government has privately admitted the UK faces an increased likelihood of “systemic economic crisis” as it completes Brexit in the middle of the Covid-19 second wave. A confidential Cabinet Office briefing seen by the Guardian says: “Winter 2020 could see a combination of severe flooding, pandemic influenza, a novel emerging infectious disease and coordinated industrial action, against a backdrop of the end of the [Brexit] transition period.” Rishi Sunak is set today to deliver one of the toughest spending review statements in modern history with the economy in the deepest recession on record. The chancellor’s second mini-budget of the pandemic will lay bare the government’s fears over the long-lasting impact of a looming winter surge in unemployment when he unveils a £4.3bn package of support to help the jobless find work. It includes a £2.9bn Restart scheme designed to aid a million workers with their job searches; and a further £1.4bn to increase the capacity of Jobcentre Plus – the government’s support service for the unemployed.

Forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility are expected to show Britain headed for a drop in GDP of more than 10%. The second wave and return to lockdown will result in a double-dip recession this winter, with rising unemployment expected next year. A budget deficit of about £400bn is anticipated, with the chancellor potentially looking to a hike in capital gains and other taxes, as well as a public sector pay squeeze. The national infrastructure strategy is due to be published, and plans to move civil servants to the north of England confirmed. Other measures are set to include £115m for homelessness; extension of the furlough scheme; and Covid-19 expenses such as test and trace, protective equipment, mass delivery of vaccines and general NHS funding. The chancellor faces pressure to maintain the £20 per week universal credit increase.

‘Trump changed the landscape’ – Joe Biden has given his first detailed interview as president-elect, saying “This is not a third Obama term. We face a totally different world than we faced in the Obama-Biden administration. President Trump has changed the landscape.” After government officials on Monday released resources for the transition, Biden said the Trump administration’s outreach “has been sincere. They’re already working out my ability to get presidential daily briefs. We’re already working out meeting with the Covid team in the White House.”

As he continues to assemble his cabinet, Biden said he wouldn’t “use the justice department as my vehicle” to investigate Donald Trump and his allies: “There are a number of investigations that I’ve read about that are at a state level. There’s nothing at all I can or cannot do about that.” Separately, Biden told journalists in Wilmington, Delaware, that there must not be a hard border on the island of Ireland because of Brexit. “We do not want a guarded border.”

Midweek catch-up

&gt; The Home Office broke equalities law when it introduced its hostile environment immigration measures, the Equality and Human Rights Commission has concluded. The department now has a legal duty to review and correct the policies.

&gt; Shamima Begum’s lawyers are seeking in the supreme court to have the Isis recruit let back into the UK from Syria so she can challenge the removal of her citizenship.

&gt; Queues of trucks stretching for five miles on the M20 have unexpectedly built up in Kent after French authorities started a trial of post-Brexit checks.

It gives a glimpse of things to come in January whether a deal is reached or not, with the government last month warning about queues of 7,000 lorries on the main motorway routes to both the Eurotunnel and Dover.

&gt; Scotland is to provide free period products to all who need them under a world-first scheme. The scheme, which is estimated to cost about £8.7m a year, will not be means-tested.

Christmas mix – Families across Britain will be able to gather in three-household “Christmas bubbles” of any size, the government has announced, bringing warnings from scientists that the plan will almost inevitably see a rise in the number of coronavirus cases. The rules were thrashed out in a meeting involving the four UK governments. It will allow people to travel around freely from 23 to 27 December, ending on 28 December when all areas will revert to previous Covid rules. The Alzheimer’s Society has called it “heartbreaking” that care home residents aged over 65 will not be allowed to join loved ones. This morning it emerges the government’s £22bn test-and-trace system has failed to reach more than 100,000 people exposed to coronavirus in England’s worst-hit areas since the second wave began, with four in 10 not asked to self-isolate. And the government spent £10bn more buying PPE equipment in the “chaotic” and inflated pandemic market than it would have paid for the same products last year, according to the National Audit Office, while less than 10% of the kit was delivered to the Covid-19 frontlines by the end of July.

House bounce – More than 100,000 additional house sales are expected during the first three months of 2021 as the rebound in the property market continues and buyers rush to complete purchases before the end of the stamp duty holiday. The number of new sales being agreed remains 38% higher than it was a year ago, according to property website Zoopla. It predicts the housing market will be the busiest before Christmas than it has been for over a decade. The UK housing market has rebounded since the summer because of pent-up demand following the first UK-wide lockdown, and after the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, decided in July to introduce a stamp duty holiday on properties up to £500,000 until March 2021.

‘Right thing to do’ – A New Zealand farming family has gifted 900 hectares of pristine land by the edge of Lake Wakatipu back to the country, saying it is “the right thing to do”. The stretch of land at the foot of the Remarkables range will become open to everyone in 2022, after being handed over to the Queen Elizabeth II National Trust for “the benefit and enjoyment of all New Zealanders”. Remarkables station owners Dick and Jillian Jardine wanted to see the property protected and loved for another century. Despite having numerous offers from overseas developers for the property that has been in the family for 100 years, the Jardines declined. In a statement, the trust said the gift was “hugely significant for the Wakatipu area and wider New Zealand”.

Results from clinical trials have shown that the world has three apparently highly effective vaccines for Covid-19. With the race now on for regulatory approval, production and distribution, is the end of the pandemic within reach?

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/24-71658-20201119tifvaccine.mp3 

With its iPhones, watches and forthcoming smart glasses, Apple’s gadgets are increasingly becoming extensions of our minds and bodies. It’s the big tech dream – but could it turn into a nightmare?

Bruno Fernandes scored twice in a 4-1 win over Istanbul Basaksehir to boost Manchester United’s hopes of qualifying for the Champions League knockout stage. Olivier Giroud scored in added time to give Chelsea a 2-1 win over Rennes and secure their place in the next phase, while Barcelona put their domestic struggles to one side with a 4-0 victory over Dynamo Kyiv that sealed their progress. Andy Murray says the ATP, which governs the men’s game, should take domestic abuse cases such as the one which has engulfed Alexander Zverev over the past month “extremely seriously”. A decision on when next year’s Australian Open will be held is imminent, but a delay of a week or two is the “most likely” outcome.

England’s defence coach, John Mitchell, is warning his squad to beware Welsh wind-ups and expects the hosts to “have a crack” at certain key players during Saturday’s Autumn Nations Cup game in Llanelli. The former British Cycling and Team Sky head coach Shane Sutton was “absolutely lying” when he told parliament that he had no knowledge of doping in the sport, a former teammate told a medical tribunal on Tuesday. The former France rugby union wing Christophe Dominici has died at the age of 48. Nat Sciver and her fellow England allrounder Katherine Brunt are being credited for helping the Melbourne Stars to the brink of the Women’s Big Bash League final in Australia. And a shortage of stewards could hamper the return of fans to stadiums as clubs race to resolve a series of issues before the relaxing of Covid restrictions next week.

Up to 60 Debenhams stores could close with the loss of thousands of jobs as part of a rescue deal for the troubled chain, which has been in administration since March. Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific rallied overnight in the wake of a record close on Wall Street last night as investors embraced risk in the wake of positive news about a potential vaccine to prevent Covid-19. The FTSE 100 is expected to join the party and lift 0.4% at the opening bell this morning, while the pound is on $1.335 and €1.122.

“Christmas bubbles” and how to form them leads our Guardian print edition today – the picture slot goes to Beyoncé’s Grammy nominations, and we have the funny if it wasn’t so serious story of I’m A Celebrity potentially releasing foreign cockroaches that could harm the Welsh countryside. The FT opts for the mini-budget: “Sunak corrals £4bn to shield jobs and livelihoods from Covid shock”.

Is the Metro not potentially creating confusion by splashing with “rule of three” – as in the number of families that can gather – when we’ve already got the rule of six? More befuddlement by numbers in the Telegraph: “Five days of Christmas with three households together”. And here’s the Mail with “12 rules of Christmas” – it adds that “3 households can gather with NO top limit” (ugly Christmas jumpers permitted then), “freedoms to last five days from 23rd to 27th” and care home residents aged 65+ not permitted. No guidance on how many sixpence allowed in the pudding …

A much more simple treatment in the Times: “Covid rules relaxed for Christmas”. The Sun has “Here it is … mini Christmas”, which is quite good, while the Express says “Have a merry (but not so many) Christmas”. “Bubbles for Christmas” says the i, cracking a perhaps unintentional champagne pun. “Season’s meetings” says the Mirror.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.32 article:
&#x27;Remarkably effective&#x27;: Carrie Lam praises Hong Kong national security law

Chief executive says in annual address the city’s problems driven by ‘external forces’ and pandemic

Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, has defended the crackdown on opposition by her government and Beijing, and praised the widely criticised national security law – while seeking to blame the city’s woes on foreign interference and the pandemic.

Lam’s annual policy address – which was postponed from October to allow for further consultation with Beijing – was delivered on Wednesday to a legislative council without its opposition members after the mass resignation of the pro-democracy caucus.

Lam said Hong Kong had experienced “multiple blows” including the mass protests, a worsening economy and unemployment because of the pandemic, and “national security threats due to foreign interference”.

“In the past year or so Hong Kong has experienced the most severe political challenges since its return to the motherland,” Lam said.

She suggested the unrest was driven by “ill-intentioned people influenced by external forces”, and accused pro-independence or self-determination groups of having “blatantly challenged the authority of the central government and the HKSAR [Hong Kong Special Administrative Region] government, pleaded for interference in Hong Kong’s affairs by external forces and even begged for sanctions against Hong Kong”.

“Meanwhile, foreign governments and legislatures have intensified their interference in Hong Kong’s affairs which are squarely China’s internal affairs, severely jeopardising our nation’s security.”

Over the past 18 months Hong Kong’s semi-autonomy, guaranteed until 2047, has markedly deteriorated and the increasing involvement of Beijing in Hong Kong’s governance has led to cries that the “one country two systems” era is over. Mass protests wracked the city for most of 2019, sparked by opposition to an extradition bill before broadening out into a wider pro-democracy movement. A heavy-handed police response led the demonstrations into worsening violence.

More than 10,000 people have been arrested, including at least 31 under the national security law imposed by Beijing in June, which outlawed a wide range of acts as sedition, secession, foreign interference or terrorism. The internationally criticised law brought a chilling effect on Hong Kong, restricting the free expression of academics, media and the opposition. Other new or reinterpreted laws have also criminalised disrespect of the national anthem and allowed for the disqualification of elected lawmakers deemed to be “unpatriotic”.

On Wednesday Lam defended it all, saying Beijing had “no alternative but to step in and take action” with the national security law, which had been “remarkably effective in restoring stability”.

She said: “Advocations of ‘Hong Kong independence’ and collusions with external forces have progressively subsided; some of the prominent figures have kept a low profile; radical organisations have ceased operation or dissolved; those who are suspected of violating the law have absconded; and street violence is significantly on the decline.”

She said more than 2,300 people had been prosecuted for protest-related offences: police were prepared to handle underage cases with rehabilitative responses rather than punitive, but only if the defendants showed true remorse and admitted to their wrongdoing.

Lam also flagged a public education campaign on national security and law-abiding awareness, as well as legislative amendments to require all existing public servants to sign the loyalty oaths that have been required of new hires since July.

Once the pandemic stabilised, Hong Kong would launch a global publicity campaign to business and research industries. Lam said international confidence in Hong Kong’s law and freedom had been undermined by “the unreasonable criticism and smearing” of the national security law and disqualification of four pro-democracy legislators.





No.33 article:
Religious leaders pleased that Christians will not experience ‘same disappointment’ they did

Representatives of faiths that have been unable to gather for religious festivals this year because of the pandemic have welcomed the fact that Christians will not have to experience “the same disappointment and deflation” they did.

The Muslim festivals of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha, the Jewish holy days of Passover, Rosh Hashanah (the Jewish new year) and Yom Kippur, and Diwali festival of lights celebrated by Hindus, Sikhs and Jains were among those hit by lockdown restrictions, with people forbidden to worship together or join family and friends to mark the occasions. Easter was also affected last spring.

On Tuesday, Boris Johnson outlined plans for Covid measures to be relaxed so that people could celebrate Christmas together, with as many as three different households allowed to mix for five days over the festive period.

Imam Qari Asim, chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board, said he was pleased Christians would be able to enjoy “this special time of year, which provides an opportunity for people of all faiths and beliefs to reconnect with family and friends”.

He added: “It is a relief to know that those celebrating Christmas will not endure the same disappointment and deflation that Muslims experienced at the last minute cancellation of Eid celebrations earlier in the year.”

Rabbi Celia Surget, chair of the Assembly of Reform Rabbis and Cantors, said: “At the end of a year of unprecedented difficulty for our society, we hope all Christians who celebrate Christmas, and everyone who marks this culturally-significant national holiday, are able to have a fulfilling, if restricted, experience.”

Rabbi Charley Baginsky of Liberal Judaism said she was “pleased that our Christian friends will be able to celebrate Christmas this year with their families”. But the preservation of life must take priority, she added. “We have all been through so much and sacrificed so much that I would not want us to jeopardise that for anything.”

Rabbi Daniel Epstein, from an Orthodox synagogue in north London, said: “While the government recognises the importance of Christmas for a nominally Christian country, it places a tremendous strain on other faith leaders and their communities in trying to justify the inevitable infection spread that Christmas will bring.”

Bhai Amrik Singh, chair of the Sikh Federation (UK), said he had written to Robert Jenrick, the communities secretary, asking for restrictions to be eased ahead of the holy day of Gurpurb of Guru Nanak Dev Ji and Advent Sunday at the end of November.

“This would be a massive positive gesture of respect to people of faith and with key dates in the religious calendars fast approaching,” he said.

Responding to an invitation to Guardian readers to share their views, Nitin Mehta said Christmas was a national as well as religious festival. “As a Hindu, if possible we will also take the advantage of getting together! … Christmas is of great sentimental value to the British people and we welcome anything that will help people to celebrate the festival.”

Dante Lucille, 58, a Jew living in London, said: “Christmas is clearly the most important religious festival in the UK, as a culturally Christian country. To deny this is simply disingenuous and churlish.”

But one Muslim who requested anonymity said they felt “pushed aside”. At short notice, the government had forbidden Muslims from gathering during Eid al-Fitr – “and no one cared! No one wanted to ‘Save Eid’, no one cared that we weren’t able to celebrate one of the holiest and most important Islamic holidays with our loved ones …

“It felt like Muslims were just pushed aside and not really listened to. Now to see everyone ready to celebrate Christmas feels like a slap in our face.”





No.34 article:
Exclusive: Private firms reach 58% of close contacts in 20 worst-hit areas in second wave

The government’s £22bn test-and-trace system has failed to reach more than 100,000 people exposed to coronavirus in England’s worst-hit areas since the second wave began, official figures show, with four in 10 not asked to self-isolate.

A Guardian analysis found that the privately run arm of the test-and-trace programme had reached 58% of the close contacts of infected people in the country’s 20 worst-hit areas since 9 September, having barely improved since its launch.

Boris Johnson defended the value of the struggling system in a Downing Street briefing on Monday after it received a further £7bn in funding, taking its cost to £22bn this year. This amounts to nearly a fifth of the NHS budget and about the same as the Department for Transport’s.

The health secretary, Matt Hancock, told MPs on Tuesday that test and trace “was functioning to reduce transmission enormously” and had “broken the chains of transmission hundreds of thousands of times” before England’s second national lockdown on 5 November.

However, official figures suggest its performance has waned as demand has increased. The proportion of close contacts being reached across England fell to its lowest level in October, to just over 60%.

In the areas with the highest infection rates, the private firms Serco and Sitel have reached 58% of exposed people since the start of the second wave, meaning the programme has barely improved on its 55% success rate in its first 11 weeks.

The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) has said that 80% of an infected person’s close contacts must be contacted and told to self-isolate within 48 to 72 hours for the national programme to be effective.

In total, 109,903 people in the worst-hit areas were not contacted when they should have been in the 11 weeks to 4 November, the Guardian has found, leaving them at risk of spreading the disease further.

Serco and Sitel were paid an initial £192m for the first three months of the programme, with the value of the contract reaching £730m over 12 months.

Alice Wiseman, the director of public health at Gateshead council, said she was concerned that the national system was failing to reach four in 10 potentially infectious people in the town. “It means there are more than 3,400 people out there potentially spreading the virus without knowing. It’s critical we get test and trace into a brilliant position for when we come out of lockdown,” she said.

Another director of public health said the low success rate of contact tracing had “undoubtedly contributed to our continuing high rates” of infection. There is also concern that the system will struggle to cope as rapid testing is rolled out to more parts of England from next week.

The Labour MP Justin Madders, a shadow health minister, said: “It has been clear for months now that the privately run parts of test and trace are failing badly and that the government have had ample time to fix or ditch the private providers.

“This second lockdown should have been used to finally resolve these problems but the time has been wasted and there is a huge risk that infections will spiral out of control again. It seems as if the government are almost in denial about the action needed.”

In Bradford, test and trace did not call 17,645 people who had been in close contact with an infected person – half of the number identified and by far the worst of the 20 worst-affected areas.

In Blackburn with Darwen, which has the UK’s highest per capita infection rate since the start of the pandemic, only 50% of close contacts have been reached during the second wave. In Leicester and Oldham, the figure is 53% and 54% respectively.

The analysis, which spans 9 September to 4 November, is based on figures released weekly by the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC). It is not known how many of the 109,903 people were not reached due to a lack of contact details, as DHSC does not release this data by geography.

Susan Hinchcliffe, the leader of Bradford council, urged the government to allow local authorities to trace close contacts as well as those who have tested positive for coronavirus. Currently, councils are only given the power to trace infected people, not their close contacts.

“Naturally, I’m concerned by this because we need to make sure that everyone who might have the virus self-isolates because that’s the only way to get the virus down,” she said. “We all know that this system should have been designed with national and local working hand in hand.”

The Department of Health and Social Care said: “Contact tracing is working in every part of the country. The most recent weekly statistics show a record number of positive cases were transferred to contact tracers with 323,080 people reached and asked them to self-isolate - people who might otherwise have unknowingly spread the virus. In high outbreak areas such as the northwest we have reached almost 500,000 people. This is undoubtedly curbing the spread of Covid and saving lives.

“NHS Test and Trace has been boosted by the introduction of more than 150 Local tracing partnerships where councils are provided with extensive data and supported to manage local outbreaks, working closely with ring-fenced group of NHS contact tracers.”







No.35 article:
UK&#x27;s &#x27;chaotic&#x27; PPE procurement cost billions extra

National Audit Office says lack of sufficient PPE before the pandemic led to hugely higher prices being paid

The government spent £10bn more buying personal protective equipment in “chaotic” and inflated market conditions during the pandemic than it would have paid for the same products last year, according to a report by the parliamentary spending watchdog.

But less than 10% of the gloves, gowns, face masks and other products – ordered for a total £12.5bn – had been delivered to NHS trusts and other frontline organisations by the end of July, the National Audit Office (NAO) report found.

Of 32bn items ordered at exponentially rising prices, 2.6bn had been distributed by July. The controversial “parallel supply chain”, rapidly set up by the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) in March, has still not received much of the PPE it ordered, the report said, “with some of it not yet manufactured”.

According to the NAO, the stockpile was “inadequate” before the pandemic, containing only two weeks’ worth of PPE but the health department then dramatically over-ordered, it was suggested, with the 32bn items amounting to five years’ worth of supply.

Setting out comparative costs for the equipment, the NAO said 760m gowns and coveralls, which would have cost 33p each last year, were bought for £4.50 each, an increase of 1,277%. One million body bags that would have cost £1 each last year were bought for £14.10, with millions of gloves, face masks, goggles and sanitiser also bought at inflated costs.

“The department had to pay such high prices because it was in the position of needing to buy huge volumes of PPE very quickly,” the report said. The total cost of all 32bn items at 2019 prices would have been £2.5bn, £10bn less than the government paid.

The report follows NAO revelations that the DHSC operated a “high priority” route for PPE suppliers with political connections, where bids for multimillion-pound contracts were 10 times more likely to be successful. Competitive tenders were suspended in the emergency.

NHS organisations told the watchdog that they had been able to get the PPE they needed in time, but the report contrasts that assurance with health and social care workers who told their professional bodies and unions that they suffered shortages of vital PPE.

Adult social care providers felt they were “not adequately supported by government in obtaining PPE”, receiving only 10% of their estimated need from the government between March and July, while NHS trusts received 80% of their estimated need.

Office for National Statistics figures show 612 deaths of health and social care workers involving Covid-19 were registered between 9 March and 12 October in England.

The NAO calls for the government to hold a “comprehensive lessons-learned exercise” to consider whether “any issues with PPE provision or use might have contributed to Covid-19 infections or deaths” and to inform planning for future emergencies.

The Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice group, whose members include relatives of health and social care workers who died after complaining of PPE shortages, has repeatedly called for a rapid public inquiry.

Jo Goodman, the group’s co-founder, said: “The fact that some of our NHS heroes have been lost due to the government’s failure to adequately supply them with PPE is yet another national disgrace which can only really be truly understood with an urgent public inquiry. It is not too late to learn the lessons from the first wave of the pandemic and save lives.”

Jolyon Maugham QC, founder of the Good Law Project which is challenging the government’s procurement processes and several individual contracts, said of the report: “It shows there has been an obscene waste of public money. This was the worst of all worlds, where the government paid five times the normal price, but bought five years’ worth of supply, most of which will never be used. Most striking in the NAO report is the question they don’t answer: why the government procured 32 billion items of PPE in a period in which they only distributed 2.6 billion.”

Health minister Jo Churchill said: “As the NAO report recognises, during this unprecedented pandemic all the NHS providers audited ‘were always able to get what they needed in time’ thanks to the herculean effort of government, NHS, armed forces, civil servants and industry who delivered around 5 billion items of PPE to the frontline at record speed.

“We set up robust and resilient supply chains from scratch and expanded our distribution network from 226 NHS trusts to over 58,000 health and care settings. With almost 32 billion items of PPE ordered we are confident we can provide a continuous supply to our amazing frontline workers over the coming months and respond to future eventualities.”





No.36 article:
New Zealand couple shuns developers to give 900 hectares of land to nation

Dick and Jillian Jardine said it was ‘the right thing’ to hand beautiful plot in Remarkables to national trust for conservation

A New Zealand farming family has gifted 900 hectares of pristine land by the edge of Lake Wakatipu to the crown, saying it is “the right thing to do”.

The stretch of land at the foot of the Remarkables range will become open to everyone in 2022, after being handed over to the Queen Elizabeth II National Trust for “the benefit and enjoyment of all New Zealanders”.

Remarkables station owners, Dick and Jillian Jardine, whose family have owned and worked the land for 98 years, want to see it protected and loved for another century.

Jillian Jardine said she wanted to see the biodiversity and “iconic nature” of the land protected in perpetuity and said her family had spent four years discussing the decision.

“We thought about this idea and it just stuck so it feels like the right thing to do,” she said. “We want to keep it as it is forever, we don’t want buildings all over it or housing, there’s so much housing going in … we want to be part of saving something.”

Despite having numerous offers from overseas developers, the Jardines – who are well-known local philanthropists – declined.

In a statement, the trust said the gift was “hugely significant for the Wakatipu area and wider New Zealand”.

The trust’s chair, Bruce Wills, said: “Open landscapes in the Wakatipu basin have come under increasing pressure from subdivision and commercial development driven by the twin pressures of population growth and tourism.

“But the wide-open landscapes of the district are the very values that have attracted both tourists and new residents to the area.”

The gifted property is freehold land, currently leased as a working farm, and that will continue for the foreseeable future.

The central lakes region of the South Island is one of the wealthiest enclaves in New Zealand, and home to high net worth individuals such as PayPal founder Peter Thiel, jewellery mogul Michael Hill, and Trade Me founder Sam Morgan.

According to the 2013 census, more than half of the region’s homes are unoccupied – with the real figure probably higher since the borders closed in March.

“We’ve got quite a lot of billionaires in the district,” Queenstown Lakes mayor Jim Boult told the Guardian in 2018. With a NZ$30m private hospital in the pipeline, international airport and a plethora of pampering options (there are more than 40 hair and beauty salons in the region, and dozens of vineyards), the Queenstown Lakes district has long drawn the admiration of the world’s privileged.

But one slice of paradise will now remain in the hands of the nation for good.

“This land has been in the family for nearly a century and we have endeavoured to improve and enhance it over this time,” said Dick Jardine. “Having QEII as the caretaker of this property gives us the comfort and assurance to proudly pass over this gift for all New Zealand to enjoy and appreciate.”





No.37 article:
&#x27;Leave Nato&#x27;: Justin Trudeau pranked by Russian duo posing as Greta Thunberg

Vovan and Lexus strike again, urging Canadian prime minister to introduce them to South Park characters Terrance and Phillip

Russian comedians Vovan and Lexus have struck again, this time pranking Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau in a phone call during which he believed he was talking to climate change activist Greta Thunberg.

Vladimir Kuznetsov and Alexey Stolyarov, who call themselves Vovan and Lexus, released a recording of the phone call this week, in which they counsel Trudeau about world politics and request a chance to meet some of the characters from South Park – at which point the penny drops.

Previous targets of Vovan and Lexus include Elton John, who they claim to have fooled by pretending to be Russian president Vladimir Putin keen to talk about gay rights.

During the 10-minute call, a third person – playing the teenage climate activist – tells Trudeau she is worried about a “growing international crisis and anticipation of the world war”.

“It already leads to disaster,” says fake Greta. “It’s very scary,” to which Trudeau replies: “Yes indeed.”

The call was made in January, days after the Iranian government shot down a Ukrainian passenger jet, killing the 176 people on board.

“You are adults but you act like children,” she says. “We can create a world where there is a place for everyone. For white and black. Christians and Muslims. Trump and Putin. for you and me. For Boris Johnson. For Corbyn. For Terrance and Phillip, who are also known in your country.”

The last two names refer to Canadian characters from the show South Park.

“No, that is exactly, exactly the right perspective,” Trudeau responds.

After he expresses his belief that Thunberg’s 2019 visit to Montreal ahead of the country’s federal election “helped define” the outcome in terms of climate change, Thunberg interrupts to say, “But leave Nato. Drop your weapons. Pick flowers. Smile at nature.”

A diplomatic Trudeau responds without pause: “I also dream of a world in which soldiers are not necessary, but we don’t live in that world yet, unfortunately.”

Fake Greta then accuses Meghan Markle of “manipulating” Prince Harry – the pair were in the process of deciding whether to live in Canada – before asking whether Trudeau can introduce her to Terrance and Phillip.

“I would be happy – I’ll ask my team to try and figure out how we can connect you,” he says. “Because I don’t have their direct coordinates with me now.”

The penny finally drops when she asks again whether it would be possible.

“Wait, Terrance and Phillip, where they not in South Park?” he asks. “I don’t personally know them. I believe they are South Park parodies of Canadians,” he says, before politely ending the call.





No.38 article:
After a gruelling year of successive waves of Covid-19 infections and national lockdowns there has been a burst of good news this month, with three separate vaccine candidates performing extremely well in clinical trials.

First, Pfizer and Moderna announced that their vaccines were testing at an efficacy of around 95%. Then came the news that the AstraZeneca vaccine (the one pre-ordered in bulk by the UK government) was hitting 90%. It marks not just a new phase in the Covid-19 pandemic but potentially a revolution in vaccine technology itself. 

As the Guardian’s health editor, Sarah Boseley, tells Anushka Asthana, the science of mRNA – one of the building blocks of life – is the key to the success of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. By synthesising a replica of the distinctive coronavirus “spike protein”, the body mounts an immune response that fights off the virus. It’s a technology being used by Robin Shattock at Imperial College London, who tells Anushka that his lab is also hopeful of producing an effective Covid-19 vaccine. But beyond that, the breakthroughs made this year could hold the key to fighting cancer and other deadly diseases in the future. 





No.39 article:
China dismisses Pope Francis&#x27;s comments about persecution of Uighurs

Beijing says pontiff’s remarks have ‘no factual basis’ despite evidence a million of the Muslim minority group are being held in camps

China has dismissed criticism of its treatment of Uighurs in a new book by Pope Francis in which he describes the “persecution” of the Muslim minority group.

A foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said Francis’ remarks had “no factual basis at all”.

“People of all ethnic groups enjoy the full rights of survival, development, and freedom of religious belief,” Zhao said at a daily briefing.

Zhao made no mention of internment camps in which more than 1 million Uighurs and members of other Chinese Muslim minority groups have been held.

The US and other governments, along with human rights groups, say the prison-like facilities are intended to divide Muslims from their religious and cultural heritage, forcing them to declare loyalty to China’s ruling Communist party and its leader, Xi Jinping.

China, which initially denied the existence of the facilities, now says they are centres intended to provide job training and prevent terrorism and religious extremism on a voluntary basis.

In his new book Let Us Dream, due out on 1 December, the pontiff listed the “poor Uighurs” among examples of groups persecuted for their faith.

Francis wrote about the need to see the world from the peripheries and the margins of society, “to places of sin and misery, of exclusion and suffering, of illness and solitude”.

In such places of suffering, “I think often of persecuted peoples: the Rohingya, the poor Uighurs, the Yazidi — what ISIS did to them was truly cruel — or Christians in Egypt and Pakistan killed by bombs that went off while they prayed in church”, Francis wrote.

The pope has declined to call out China for its crackdown on religious minorities, including Catholics, much to the dismay of the Trump administration and human rights groups.

The Vatican last month renewed its controversial agreement with Beijing on nominating Catholic bishops, and Francis has been careful to not say or do anything to offend the Chinese government on the subject.

On Tuesday the Vatican confirmed that the bishop of Qingdao, Thomas Chen Tianhao, had been recently consecrated with papal consent as a result of the 2018 deal, the third such ordination.

In a statement, a Vatican spokesman, Matteo Bruni, said the Holy See expected more bishops to be named as a result of the deal “because several procedures are under way for new episcopal nominations.”

China and the Vatican have had no formal relations since the Communist party cut ties and arrested Catholic clerics soon after seizing power in 1949.






