No.1 article:
Biden and His Economic Team Urge Quick Action on Stimulus as Risks Mount

The president-elect introduced key nominees in Delaware, while lawmakers exchanged new proposals with prospects for a deal still dim.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday introduced the economic team he will rely on to help rebuild the U.S. economy at a perilous moment, with coronavirus cases soaring, the Federal Reserve chair warning of challenging months ahead and lawmakers in Congress still struggling to reach agreement on a rescue package.

Mr. Biden, speaking in Delaware, called on Congress to pass a substantial relief package to help keep businesses, households and local governments afloat while his Treasury secretary nominee, Janet L. Yellen, called the damage done so far “an American tragedy” that could lead to long-term devastation if not quickly corrected.

“Right now, the full Congress should come together and pass a robust package for relief to address these urgent needs,” Mr. Biden said.

But he acknowledged that any stimulus agreement would necessarily fall far short of the trillions of dollars that Democratic leaders have insisted on for months, saying that “any package passed in a lame-duck session is lucky to be at best just a start.”

Mr. Biden’s nominees made it clear that they were thinking expansively about how to revive the U.S. economy and looking beyond just restoring lost jobs and livelihoods to finding ways to widen economic wealth, broaden opportunities and repair safety net programs.

“This is a moment of urgency and opportunity unlike anything we’ve faced in modern times,” said Cecilia Rouse, Mr. Biden’s nominee to lead the Council of Economic Advisers. “The urgency of ending a devastating crisis. And the opportunity to build a better economy in its wake — an economy that works for everyone, brings fulfilling job opportunities and leaves no one to fall through the cracks.”

But those goals, which were at the center of Mr. Biden’s campaign, are likely to run into obstacles in Congress, where Republicans, who spent the past four years on a spending spree, have resurrected their concerns about the federal deficit. They have cited it as a reason to forgo the kind of large stimulus package that Mr. Biden and other top Democrats have said is needed.

The political divisions were on display Tuesday, as a bipartisan group of centrist senators announced in the morning that they were working on a $908 billion compromise stimulus package. By the afternoon, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, announced that he had been discussing his own proposal with Trump administration officials and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader.

That package would be hundreds of billions of dollars smaller than the bipartisan plan — and thus a nonstarter with Democrats. But Mr. McConnell seemed to suggest that President Trump would not sign a more expansive bill, reminding Republicans in a private conference call and reporters during a news conference that a presidential signature is needed.

The continued likelihood of congressional gridlock before Inauguration Day threatens to saddle Mr. Biden’s economic team with dim prospects come Jan. 21, when it will confront an economy that has seen a slowdown in hiring growth, manufacturing activity and other key measures in recent weeks. Millions of Americans are set to lose unemployment assistance at year’s end. Others could face eviction and foreclosure as government moratoriums expire.

“The pace of improvement has moderated,” the Fed chair, Jerome H. Powell, told the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday, saying the rise in virus cases was “concerning and could prove challenging in the next few months.”

“The risk of overdoing it is less than the risk of underdoing it,” Mr. Powell said.

Administration officials have shown little sign of worry about recent economic developments, insisting the recovery is on track while Mr. Trump continues his legal quest to overturn his re-election defeat at the polls.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, appearing alongside Mr. Powell, downplayed the broader risks facing the economy and blamed economic shutdowns in some states for slowing progress. While he called for targeted relief for sectors that have been hit hardest by the pandemic, like restaurants and airlines, he said the economy had recovered faster than many had expected and that the economy had “regained 58 percent of the lost jobs.”

He defended his decision to end several of the Fed’s emergency lending programs on Dec. 31. He has also requested that the central bank return the Treasury funds supporting those programs. Democrats said the moves amounted to economic sabotage.

“Either you’re purposefully trying to stop President-elect Biden and Janet Yellen from getting to work for the people we all serve, or you’re so delusional that you think because the stock market is back up, everything is fine,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. “Either way, it’s malpractice.”

Mr. Powell, who told lawmakers that the Fed would have preferred to keep those lending programs going while acknowledging that it was Mr. Mnuchin’s place to decide, painted a more dire picture of the economic outlook. He pointed to continued uncertainty around the speed of a vaccine rollout, the reality that millions remain out of work and the fact that small businesses could fail in the winter months.

“We do have a long way to go,” Mr. Powell said. “We’ll use our tools until the danger is well and truly past, and it may require help from other parts of government as well, including Congress.”

Republicans insist that the economy is recovering and that the United States does not need to borrow more money for another big relief package, while Democrats insist that a large jolt of stimulus is necessary and that now is not the time to worry about deficits.

“There’s a reason states and localities have to have a balanced budget but we’re allowed to have a deficit to deal with crises and emergencies as we have in the past,” Mr. Biden said. “We have to keep vital public services running, have to give aid to local and state governments to make sure they can have law enforcement officers, firefighters and educators as we did in 2009.”

After months of deadlock on Capitol Hill, a bipartisan group of senators tried to move things forward with the $908 billion compromise stimulus proposal, funded in part by repurposing the money that Mr. Mnuchin clawed back from the Fed lending programs.

The proposal, spearheaded by two centrists — Senators Joe Manchin, Democrat of West Virginia, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine — and a handful of senators from both parties, has not been publicly endorsed by either Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California or Mr. McConnell.

Intended as a stopgap measure to last until March, it would restore federal unemployment benefits that lapsed over the summer, but at half the rate, providing $300 a week for 18 weeks, and does not include another round of checks for every American. The measure would provide $160 billion to help state, local and tribal governments facing fiscal ruin — a fraction of what Democrats had sought. Also included was $288 billion to help small businesses, restaurants and theaters, and a short-term federal liability shield from coronavirus-related lawsuits.

In contrast, the framework circulated on Capitol Hill by top Republicans does not include funds for state and local governments and curtails a short restoration of federal unemployment benefits even further.

“The advantage of our compromise bill is it has bipartisan, bicameral support,” Ms. Collins said. “I want a bill that can become law.”

The bipartisan plan is an attempt to find a middle ground between the dueling stimulus proposals that Democrats and Republicans have haggled over for months. Its cost is less than half of what Democratic leaders had pushed for in the weeks leading up to the election but nearly double the latest proposal from Republican leaders.

It includes most of the main ingredients that Mr. Biden and Democratic leaders have called critical for a deal, a possible sign that it could form a basis for a compromise that Mr. Biden could get behind.

Asked about the plan by reporters after his event with his economic team, Mr. Biden replied: “I just heard about it. I’ll take a look at it when I get back.”

The fresh attempt at a bipartisan compromise came as Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Mnuchin held their first phone discussion since late October, when they had a flurry of pre-election conversations that failed to culminate in a deal. Ms. Pelosi said she and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, had sent a new proposal of their own to Republican leaders on Monday.

John Lettieri, the president of the Economic Innovation Group think tank in Washington, which has pushed for more small-business aid, said the bipartisan plan “seems close to being the sweet spot” for a possible compromise — if one is possible.

Some Senate Republicans on Tuesday reiterated opposition to any deal that sends money to support state and local government budgets, with Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana challenging Mr. Powell at the hearing about whether states are really in such bad straits and suggesting the money would be used to shore up shaky pension funds.

“I’ve always said, I think it’s an area that’s worth looking,” Mr. Powell said, noting that states are among the largest employers in the economy and that they provide critical services.

Mr. Biden’s appointees all sounded an urgent tone as the incoming administration faces the prospect of a double-dip recession.

His nominees, all of whom must win Senate confirmation, talked about the pain of the pandemic recession, noting that it was falling hardest on traditionally marginalized Americans and widening the divide between the rich and the poor.

Ms. Yellen, a former Fed chair and an academic labor economist, said she had gone into economics “because I was concerned about the toll of unemployment on people, families and communities.” She warned that inaction in the face of the current economic crisis “will produce a self-reinforcing downturn causing yet more devastation.”





No.2 article:
Only 9 Trials in 9 Months: Virus Wreaks Havoc on N.Y.C. Courts

The coronavirus has upended criminal trials in the city, infiltrating courtrooms in ways that threaten both health and justice.

A Brooklyn trial was postponed after the defense lawyers said they were unwilling to spend weeks inside a cramped courtroom. In Manhattan, a woman summoned for jury duty told the court she had been sick with the coronavirus and was symptomatic. Another trial, in the Bronx, was canceled when four courthouse staff members tested positive.

Since October, state and federal court officials have taken extraordinary measures to restart criminal trials in New York City. They have constructed plexiglass boxes with special air filters in court. They have asked witnesses to testify in face shields and have spread jurors out in courtroom galleries.

But those efforts have not stopped the virus from disrupting nearly every step of the process. The state and federal courts in the city have been able to complete only nine criminal jury trials since the pandemic hit in March, officials said. Last year, there were about 800 criminal trials in the city.

For months, the logistical problems have threatened the ability of hundreds of defendants to secure their constitutional right to a speedy trial. Now, as a second wave of the virus threatens the region, the delays are only worsening — and officials foresee the backlog of unresolved cases continuing to grow.

Last month, the chief judge in New York State halted new jury trials until further notice because of surging virus cases. More than 400 defendants have been waiting inside New York City jails for over two years for their cases to be resolved, according to the mayor’s office.

“Is it fair for people to be languishing in pretrial detention and presumed innocent with no prospect of a trial in the future for them?” said New York’s chief administrative judge, Lawrence K. Marks. “A criminal justice system cannot be, in any sense of the word, fully functioning, if it is not conducting jury trials.”

And in the past week, the federal courts in the city also announced that all trials would be suspended until mid-January.

Some prosecutors, citing safety concerns, have pushed to delay trials because their witnesses live out of state or work in hospitals with Covid-19 patients. In other cases, prosecutors said the fears of catching the virus during trials had been overblown.

The problems in New York have been mirrored across the country. Federal judges in Nebraska, Nevada, Colorado and several other jurisdictions recently suspended jury trials in response to rising virus cases. A court in Austin, Texas, held the state’s first virtual criminal jury trial in August.

Each court has determined its own protocols. One local courthouse in Orange County, Calif., has completed 114 criminal trials since May, while the federal courthouse across the street has determined it is unsafe to hold any trials at all.

In New York City courts, the challenge of preventing the virus’s spread is magnified by the dense population. In normal times, clerks, court officers and lawyers squeeze into courtroom galleries and line the crowded hallways, waiting for cases to be called.

In November alone, at least three dozen people who appeared in eight different criminal courthouses in the city tested positive for the virus, according to the state’s court administrators.

Many judges have been eager to begin trials, worried about violating the constitutional rights of people charged with crimes. Without speedy trials, jails become overcrowded, evidence grows stale and witnesses’ memories fade.

Early in the pandemic, after New York City officials released hundreds of inmates, the city’s jail population dropped to its lowest level since the 1940s. But the population has increased again — to 4,669 people last month — raising fears about the virus spreading among inmates and jail staff. A majority of the inmates are awaiting trial, according to the Center for Court Innovation, a criminal justice nonprofit.

But one of the biggest hurdles to restarting trials has been finding defense lawyers who are willing to do them.

At a federal hearing in Manhattan, Susan Kellman, a defense lawyer, said she felt unsafe visiting her client in jail, which hindered their ability to prepare for a drug-trafficking trial that had been scheduled for October. Her client has been adamant about going to trial quickly, she said, and regularly screams at her on the telephone.

“I’m a single parent. I have two kids. I’m really not ready to die,” she told the judge, who rescheduled the trial.

In Brooklyn, Aleksandr Zhukov, a defendant charged in a cybercrime scheme, was finally set to begin trial last month after waiting in jail for two years. But all three of his lawyers asked to quit weeks before the start date, citing fears about the new virus wave.

Saritha Komatireddy, a prosecutor on the case, questioned why the lawyers had raised the concern for the first time so close to trial. “They may be entitled to their own fears, but they’re not entitled to their own facts,” she said at a recent hearing. “Trials are possible.”

Out of desperation, Mr. Zhukov asked the judge if he could represent himself, even though Mr. Zhukov, a Russian national, has never studied American law.

“For me, there is no options any more,” Mr. Zhukov said at the hearing. “It’s a must choice right now. It’s the only opportunity to get to trial on time. Otherwise it will be postponed, postponed, postponed, postponed.”

The judge assigned Mr. Zhukov a new lawyer and delayed the trial until at least February.

Courthouse security officers and defense lawyers have sued to oppose the reopening of New York’s state courts, accusing court administrators of failing to take adequate safety measures.

The chief administrative judge has said the courts are thoroughly and regularly cleaned. But a team of physicians hired by the city’s public defender groups contended in an August report that the state’s courthouses were ill-equipped to stop the spread of a virus, pointing to crowded holding cells for defendants, improperly installed plexiglass and poorly ventilated rooms.

The virus has infiltrated the city’s courtrooms in ways that threaten both the health of those inside and the constitutional rights of defendants.

At a drug trial in state court in Manhattan in October, a police officer testified while wearing a see-through mask and face shield, surrounded by plexiglass. But his testimony was interrupted by drilling noises from the sidewalk, which were audible because the courtroom’s windows had been propped open to improve ventilation.

The jurors and the defendant, Demetre Cornish, strained to hear the officer. The judge decided to close a window, but kept the others open, saying, “We want to keep the air circulating.”

Mr. Cornish was acquitted by the jury of some drug and firearm offenses, but convicted of others. His lawyer, Thomas Kenniff, filed a motion on Monday asking the judge to set aside the verdict, arguing that his client did not have a fair and public trial because of restrictions caused by the pandemic.

Mr. Cornish’s relatives were denied entry into the courtroom. Their presence would have “had the potential to allow jurors to see him as an individual as opposed to an anonymous masked Black man sitting in the defendant’s chair,” Mr. Kenniff wrote.

Face coverings prevented the defense from assessing facial expressions and reactions of potential jurors, Mr. Kenniff said.

And the 12-person jury had included only two Black jurors and did not reflect the demographics of the borough, Mr. Kenniff said. Some defense lawyers have raised concerns that the virus’s disproportionate impact on Black and Latino residents might make jury pools less representative.

Even before trials were halted entirely, jury selection had been transformed during the pandemic, screening out anyone uncomfortable with health risks. Once seated, juries deliberated in a separate courtroom, giving them more space than they had in cramped jury rooms.

Still, some jurors have not seemed keen to stay for too long. A murder trial in the Bronx in July ended in an acquittal on all charges after jurors deliberated for less than an hour. A federal gun possession trial in Brooklyn last month led to a guilty verdict in 30 minutes.

Communication between lawyers and their clients, who are supposed to sit six feet apart during trial, has been difficult. Federal courts have provided special phones that operate like walkie-talkies, although lawyers have said that the whispered conversations are picked up by microphones used to address the court.

“The whole technology seems like it was from the days of Alexander Graham Bell,” said Eric Creizman, a lawyer whose client was convicted of securities fraud last month after a federal trial in Manhattan.

Even with careful preparations, trials have been derailed by the pandemic.

On Long Island, a judge stopped a trial after two days of testimony in September when the defendant revealed that his wife had tested positive for the virus. He said he was unable to isolate from her inside their small house. The trial resumed last month, and a jury convicted him on several drug offenses.

One or two other trials that had been halted in March may have also resumed during the pandemic, state court officials said. 

“We are concerned for both victims and defendants that the wheels of justice continue to move,” said Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief assistant to the Manhattan district attorney. “Languishing court cases is not good for anybody.”

The delays have been frustrating for people like Halley Hopkins, who filed a police report over a year ago accusing her husband of beating and choking her until she was unconscious. Her husband has been out on bail while awaiting trial in Queens. Though a judge has ordered him not to contact her, she remains uneasy.

“My whole life is on hold,” Ms. Hopkins, 41, said. 

A lawyer representing Ms. Hopkins’s husband declined to comment.

A Brooklyn man charged with burglary said he was kept from entering a drug-treatment program for several months when courts slowed in the spring. Before the pandemic, his case would have been resolved sooner, his lawyers said, but because the state had suspended speedy trial rules for most of the pandemic, there was no urgency.

While waiting for trial in jail, he contracted the coronavirus in April.

“I wrote a letter to the D.A., begging him to please get me help,” he said in an interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear it could affect his case. After a year in jail, he was finally released and entered a treatment program in October. He is still awaiting a resolution in his case.

Some trials have stalled because witnesses are unwilling to travel.

Stephen M. Calk, founder of Federal Savings Bank in Chicago, has been eager to go to trial since he was charged with bribery last year. Prosecutors have accused him of giving loans to Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, in an effort to obtain an administration job.

“I want to do everything I can to clear my name as soon as possible,” Mr. Calk told the judge at a hearing in October.

But prosecutors said they were struggling to persuade witnesses from Illinois to travel to Manhattan to testify. 

Over Mr. Calk’s objections, the judge postponed the trial to February.





No.3 article:
Trump Has Discussed With Advisers Pardons for His 3 Eldest Children and Giuliani

Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is promoting baseless claims of widespread election fraud, talked about a pardon with President Trump as recently as last week.

President Trump has discussed with advisers whether to grant pre-emptive pardons to his children, to his son-in-law and to his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, and talked with Mr. Giuliani about pardoning him as recently as last week, according to two people briefed on the matter.

Mr. Trump has told others that he is concerned that a Biden Justice Department might seek retribution against the president by targeting the oldest three of his five children — Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump and Ivanka Trump — as well as Ms. Trump’s husband, Jared Kushner, a White House senior adviser.

Donald Trump Jr. had been under investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for contacts that the younger Mr. Trump had had with Russians offering damaging information on Hillary Clinton during the 2016 campaign, but he was never charged. Mr. Kushner provided false information to federal authorities about his contacts with foreigners for his security clearance, but was given one anyway by the president.

The nature of Mr. Trump’s concern about any potential criminal exposure of Eric Trump or Ivanka Trump is unclear, although an investigation by the Manhattan district attorney into the Trump Organization has expanded to include tax write-offs on millions of dollars in consulting fees by the company, some of which appear to have gone to Ms. Trump.

Presidential pardons, however, do not provide protection against state or local crimes.

Mr. Giuliani’s potential criminal exposure is also unclear, although he was under investigation as recently as this summer by federal prosecutors in Manhattan for his business dealings in Ukraine and his role in ousting the American ambassador there. The plot was at the heart of the impeachment of Mr. Trump.

The speculation about pardon activity at the White House is churning furiously, underscoring how much the Trump administration has been dominated by investigations and criminal prosecutions of people in the president’s orbit. Mr. Trump himself was singled out by federal prosecutors as “Individual 1” in a court filing in the case that sent Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, to prison.

The discussions between Mr. Trump and Mr. Giuliani occurred as the former New York mayor has become one of the loudest voices pushing baseless claims of widespread fraud in the 2020 election, which Mr. Trump still proclaims publicly that he won. Many of Mr. Trump’s longtime aides have refused to do his bidding to try to overturn an election that President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won by nearly seven million votes. But Mr. Giuliani has repeatedly thrust himself into the spotlight to cast doubt on the results, which has ingratiated him with the president.

ABC News reported earlier on Tuesday that Mr. Trump was considering pardoning family members.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment.

Mr. Giuliani did not respond to a message seeking comment, but after a version of this article was published online, he attacked it on Twitter and said it was false.

Christianné L. Allen, Mr. Giuliani’s spokeswoman, said Mr. Giuliani “cannot comment on any discussions that he has with his client.”

And Mr. Giuliani’s lawyer, Robert Costello, said, “He’s not concerned about this investigation because he didn’t do anything wrong, and that’s been our position from Day 1.”

The Fox News host and Trump ally Sean Hannity said on Monday that given the animosity from Democrats directed at Mr. Trump, the president should consider pardoning his entire family. “If Biden ever became president, I’d tell Trump pardon yourself and pardon your family,” Mr. Hannity told his viewers.

Mr. Trump is an avid consumer of Fox News, particularly Mr. Hannity’s show.

Such a broad pardon pre-empting any charge or conviction is highly unusual but does have precedent. In the most famous example, President Gerald R. Ford pardoned Richard M. Nixon for all of his actions as president. President George Washington pardoned plotters of the Whiskey Rebellion, shielding them from treason prosecutions. And President Jimmy Carter pardoned thousands of American men who illegally avoided the draft for the Vietnam War.

Mr. Trump has wielded his clemency powers liberally in cases that resonate with him personally or for people who have a direct line to him through friends or family, while thousands of other cases await his review.

A pardon for Mr. Giuliani is certain to prompt accusations that Mr. Trump has used his pardon power to obstruct investigations and insulate himself and his allies. Andrew A. Weissmann, a top prosecutor for Mr. Mueller, has said that Mr. Trump’s dangling of pardons for his allies impeded their work.

In July, the president commuted the sentence of his longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr., who had refused to cooperate with the special counsel’s investigators and was eventually convicted of seven felonies. Last week, Mr. Trump pardoned his former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn, who had backed out of his cooperation agreement with the special counsel’s office for “any and all possible offenses” beyond the charge he had faced of lying to federal investigators.

The Flynn pardon raised expectations that Mr. Trump would bestow clemency on other associates — like his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who refused to discuss matters from the 2016 election with prosecutors — in his final weeks in office.

Mr. Giuliani has asked Mr. Trump’s campaign to pay him $20,000 a day for his work on trying to overturn the election, a figure that would make him among the most highly paid lawyers in the world. The staggering sum has stirred opposition among Mr. Trump’s aides who worry that Mr. Giuliani has perpetuated the claims of election fraud in hopes of making as much money as possible.

Mr. Giuliani has expressed concern that any federal investigations of his conduct that appear to have been dormant under the Trump administration could be revived in a Biden administration, according to people who have spoken to him.

Legal experts say that if Mr. Trump wants to fully protect Mr. Giuliani from prosecution after he leaves office, the president would most likely have to detail in the language of the pardon what crimes he believed Mr. Giuliani had committed.

Federal prosecutors in Manhattan have since 2019 been investigating the role of Mr. Giuliani and two other associates in a wide-ranging pressure campaign directed at pushing the Ukrainian government to investigate Mr. Trump’s rivals, namely Mr. Biden’s son Hunter Biden.

The two Giuliani associates — Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman — were arrested in October 2019 as they prepared to board a flight from Washington to Frankfurt with one-way tickets. They were charged with violating campaign finance laws as part of a complex scheme to undermine the former American ambassador in Ukraine, Marie L. Yovanovitch, who Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Trump believed should have been doing more to pressure the Ukrainians.

Prosecutors in Manhattan continued to investigate Mr. Giuliani’s role in the scheme over the past year, focusing on whether he was, in pushing to oust Ms. Yovanovitch, essentially double dipping: working not only for Mr. Trump but also for Ukrainian officials who wanted the ambassador gone for their own reasons, according to people briefed on the matter.

It is a federal crime to try to influence the United States government at the request or direction of a foreign official without disclosing their involvement. Mr. Giuliani has said that he did nothing wrong and that he did not register as a foreign agent because he was acting on behalf of Mr. Trump, not any Ukrainians.

Even as Mr. Trump maintains that the election was stolen and files lawsuits aimed at delaying its certification, his White House is preparing for the final stages of his presidency. The end of any administration typically prompts a wave of pardons, particularly when a term has been engulfed in controversy like Mr. Trump’s, in which several people close to him became ensnared in federal investigations.

“The pardon power has been used by many presidents in politically self-serving ways, whether it was George H.W. Bush or Clinton,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a professor at Harvard Law School, citing how Mr. Bush pardoned six of his associates — including the former Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger — for their role in the Iran-contra affair.

“Politically, a pardon of Giuliani would be explosive,” Mr. Goldsmith added, “but pardoning pals has been done before.”

Under previous administrations, presidents have largely granted pardons after they have gone through a formal review process at the Justice Department, where lawyers examined the convictions, discussed the ramifications of a potential pardon with prosecutors and then provided the White House with recommendations on how to proceed. On several occasions, Mr. Trump has gone against the Justice Department’s recommendations and the advice of his own White House advisers, granting pardons to political allies and celebrities.

When presidents have deviated from that process, scandals have occasionally occurred, especially after pardons in the last days of an administration. On the final day of Bill Clinton’s presidency, he granted a pardon to Marc Rich, a wealthy financier and longtime Democratic donor who was considered a fugitive as he had fled the United States to avoid tax charges.

Prosecutors in Manhattan investigated whether the pardon had been part of a quid pro quo, but no one was ever charged. At the time, Mr. Giuliani, who had helped bring criminal charges against Mr. Rich years earlier as a federal prosecutor, was deeply critical of the move, calling it “a disgrace” and declaring it “a midnight pardon.”

No president has tried to grant someone a pardon for crimes they have not yet committed — essentially a prospective get-out-of-jail-free card — and legal experts say it is unlikely to hold any weight. In the case of Donald Trump Jr., Mr. Mueller’s investigation examined questions of whether his contacts during the 2016 election with WikiLeaks and Russians offering dirt on Mrs. Clinton amounted to campaign finance violations. Donald Trump Jr. was never interviewed by the special counsel’s office and was never charged.

In the case of Mr. Kushner, he omitted several significant contacts with foreigners when he filled out a form for his White House security clearance, including ones with the Russians offering damaging information on Mrs. Clinton during the campaign. Under federal law it is a crime to provide inaccurate or incomplete information on the background check documents for security clearances.

In 2018, the White House counsel and chief of staff recommended that Mr. Kushner not receive a Top Secret security clearance because of issues that had been discovered during his background check. Over the objections of Mr. Trump’s aides, the president unilaterally granted Mr. Kushner the clearance.





No.4 article:
Barr Acknowledges Justice Dept. Has Found No Widespread Voter Fraud

The attorney general’s comments were a rebuke of the president’s increasingly spurious claims about election fraud.

WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr acknowledged on Tuesday that the Justice Department has uncovered no voting fraud “on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election,” a striking repudiation of President Trump’s groundless claims that he was defrauded.

The statement from Mr. Barr affirming Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s win served as a particularly harsh blow to Mr. Trump’s efforts to overturn the results of the election. Mr. Barr has advanced Mr. Trump’s political agenda perhaps more than any other cabinet member, bringing the Justice Department as close to the White House as it has been since Watergate.

His comments came as other Republicans separated themselves on Tuesday from Mr. Trump’s charged complaints about the election. A Georgia elections official angrily denounced the violent threats and harassment directed at elections workers and urged the president to “stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence.”

“Someone’s going to get hurt,” the official, Gabriel Sterling, said at a news conference. “Someone’s going to get shot. Someone’s going to get killed.”

And Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has refused to recognize Mr. Trump’s election loss, moved closer to overtly accepting the reality that Mr. Biden would be in the White House next year as he discussed the prospects for more pandemic stimulus in 2021.

“After the first of the year, there is likely to be a discussion about some additional package of some size next year, depending upon what the new administration wants to pursue,” Mr. McConnell said on Capitol Hill.

Mr. Barr had been mostly silent since the election, but some Republicans privately pushed him to publicly rebut Mr. Trump, according to a person told of those conversations. His comments may have been prompted by Mr. Trump’s increasingly specious election claims; the president suggested on Sunday that the Justice Department and the F.B.I. may have played a role in an election fraud.

Mr. Barr took particular aim at a widely discredited conspiracy theory promoted by the president’s legal team involving machines manufactured by Dominion Voting Systems, a company that sells voting hardware.

“There’s been one assertion that would be systemic fraud, and that would be the claim that machines were programmed essentially to skew the election results. And the D.H.S. and D.O.J. have looked into that, and so far, we haven’t seen anything to substantiate that,” Mr. Barr said, referring to the Department of Homeland Security and his own department.

A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on whether Mr. Barr discussed his findings on voter fraud with the White House before he made his public comments on Tuesday.

Mr. Barr’s acknowledgment of the election results was an about-face from his posture during the campaign. But he spoke out only after the president spent weeks promoting baseless assertions about the election outcome and long after department lawyers assigned to monitor elections for signs of fraud told Mr. Barr that they had found no evidence of substantial irregularities.

And even as Mr. Barr distanced himself from the president’s election claims, the Justice Department also announced a move certain to please Mr. Trump: Mr. Barr has given additional protections to John H. Durham, the federal prosecutor whose examination of the Russia investigation Mr. Trump had embraced. The move makes it more difficult for the Biden administration to fire Mr. Durham without providing evidence of misconduct.

The president’s allies immediately pushed back on Mr. Barr’s election assessment. Trump campaign lawyers complained that the Justice Department investigations had been anemic.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, a lawyer for Mr. Trump who has been at the forefront of promoting his election conspiracy theories, said that his team had gathered evidence of illegal voting in six states, backed up by sworn witness statements, and that the Justice Department had failed to investigate what the team had uncovered. 

“As far as we know, not a single one has been interviewed by the D.O.J.,” Mr. Giuliani said in a statement. “The Justice Department also hasn’t audited any voting machines or used their subpoena powers to determine the truth.”

Mr. Barr had given prosecutors the authority to examine allegations by Mr. Trump’s allies of voter ineligibility in Nevada and improperly dated mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania. The results of those investigations have not been publicly disclosed, but Mr. Barr’s remarks suggested that any impropriety was too insignificant to change the election results.

“Most claims of fraud are very particularized to a particular set of circumstances or actors or conduct. They are not systemic allegations, and those have been run down; they are being run down,” he said. “Some have been broad and potentially cover a few thousand votes. They have been followed up on.”

The Trump campaign and its surrogates have filed dozens of lawsuits in battleground states that have offered an array of attacks on the election results: arguing that mail-in ballots were illegally used, that absentee ballots were improperly counted and that poll challengers were denied proper access to monitor vote counts.

Some of the lawsuits have echoed Mr. Giuliani’s talk of conspiracies that foreign powers like Venezuela worked with corrupt American officials to manipulate voting machines. Others made much smaller claims, contesting the validity of tiny batches of as few as 60 ballots.

But none, at least so far, have won Mr. Trump anything more significant than the ability to move his poll observers from 10 feet to six feet away from workers counting votes in Pennsylvania. The campaign and its allies have now lost nearly 40 cases across the country as judge after judge — including some appointed by Mr. Trump — discredited the efforts as lacking both legal merit and convincing proof.

Mr. Barr also suggested that lawsuits or audits by elections officials served as remedies for suspicions of election irregularities, not criminal inquiries. “There’s a growing tendency to use the criminal justice system as sort of a default fix-all, and people don’t like something, they want the Department of Justice to come in and ‘investigate,’” Mr. Barr said in the Associated Press interview.

Mr. Barr has potentially placed himself in a precarious position with Mr. Trump, who recently fired Christopher Krebs, the senior cybersecurity official responsible for securing the presidential election, who prominently disputed Mr. Trump’s false claims that the presidency was stolen.

“I guess he is the next one to be fired since he now, too, says there is no fraud,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, said of Mr. Barr. The attorney general traveled to the White House on Tuesday afternoon, prompting speculation about his future, but he was there to attend a previously scheduled meeting, a spokeswoman said.

In the months before the November election, Mr. Barr had been one of the loudest voices sounding alarms about widespread fraud, claiming repeatedly in speeches and interviews that the potential for it was high and that it posed a grave danger to the election. Mr. Barr’s claims were often false or exaggerated and were widely refuted.

Predicting in September that mail-in voting would lead to unprecedented voter fraud, he called his assertion “common sense.”

“I don’t have empirical evidence other than the fact that we’ve always had voting fraud,” Mr. Barr said at the time. “And there always will be people who attempt to do that.”

His comments unnerved Democrats and voting rights advocates as he simultaneously relaxed Justice Department guidelines that discouraged prosecutors from taking investigative steps around an election that could become public and undermine Americans’ confidence in the results.

In the weeks before the election, the Justice Department also made the highly unusual move of releasing details about voter fraud investigations, which fed Mr. Trump’s narrative warning of voting irregularities in an effort to erode voters’ faith in the outcome of the race.





No.5 article:
The World in a Vise: Sounding the Alarm on China, Then Running for Shelter

When Australia’s leader demanded an apology for a tweet by a Chinese official, his response reflected the insecurities facing many countries in dealing with China.

SYDNEY, Australia — For the past few years, Australia has positioned itself at the front of a global effort to stand up to China. It was the first country to ban Huawei’s 5G technology, to pass foreign interference laws aimed at curbing Chinese influence, and to call for an international inquiry into the source of the coronavirus.

Now, Australia is sounding an even louder alarm. Prime Minister Scott Morrison, already vexed by China’s blockade of Australian imports — wine, coal, barley and cotton — demanded on Monday that the Chinese government apologize for a lurid tweet showing an Australian soldier with a knife at the neck of an Afghan child. The world, he warned, was watching.

But even as he elevated a Twitter post to a four-alarm diplomatic fire, he also called for a reset with Beijing, reiterating that Australia’s end game was still “the happy coexistence of two partners.” In that somersault, Mr. Morrison inadvertently let the world hear Australia’s internal dialogue of doubt — one that echoes around the globe as China increasingly asserts its might.

The prime minister gave voice to the insecurities and anxieties that come with being caught between two superpowers. Those jitters are partly about the limited options in the face of China’s tightening vise. But they are also about an America in flux.

At a time when Australia’s favored nation status with the Trump White House is about to expire, there is widespread concern that a Biden administration will focus less on America’s Pacific partners and more on rebuilding ties in Europe. That has pushed Australia deeper into a position of pleading for help in corralling China even as it beats its chest for sovereignty.

“On one level, the prime minister’s reaction was completely reasonable. On another, it’s at the upper limit of what’s acceptable without making things worse,” said John Blaxland, a professor of international security at the Australian National University. “He’s got to tread a very fine line because Australia’s leverage is limited.”

The country’s entire history since settlement has been shaped by unquestioned dependence on an alliance with a distant and dominant power, first England, then the United States. The prospect of an end to that stability, with American decline or indifference and Chinese dominance, fills most Australians with dread.

David Brophy, a senior lecturer in modern Chinese history at the University of Sydney, said it had created a counterintuitive dynamic. China often condemns Australia for doing America’s bidding, when in fact, Australia is trying desperately to cajole the United States into deeper engagement.

“The American presence in Asia is more important for Australia than it is for America,” Mr. Brophy said. “When Australia sees any hint of withdrawal, as we saw at the beginning of the Trump administration, it stirs up this sense of panic. It’s not enough to wait for the U.S. to get back in the game; Australia has to show it can do more and will do more.”

Increasingly, that has meant tolerating economic pain and abandoning the approach Australia has long followed with China — say little and do what must be done. Mr. Morrison’s government and China’s propaganda machine have instead been trading blows and turns at the microphone.

Geoff Raby, a former Australian ambassador to China, described it as a self-perpetuating cycle of paranoid provocation.

“They are each confirming the other’s worst suspicions,” he said.

Whispered complaints are out, replaced by competing news conferences and laundry lists of grievances. Australia has launched two foreign interference investigations with high-profile raids. It now plans to file a lawsuit with the World Trade Organization over China’s blocking of barley imports — one of many products that China has rejected as tensions have soared.

Two weeks ago, in turn, a pair of Chinese Embassy officials summoned an Australian reporter to a meeting and delivered a set of 14 grievances. They included academic visa cancellations, “a crusade” against China’s policies in Hong Kong, a call for an independent investigation into the origins of Covid-19, a ban on Huawei in 2018, and the blocking of 10 Chinese foreign investment deals.

“If you make China the enemy, China will be the enemy,” one of the officials said.

Zhao Lijian, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (and the official who posted the doctored photo), called at the time for Australia to “reflect on this seriously, rather than shirking the blame and deflecting responsibility.”

That, of course, is exactly what the Australian government has demanded from China with the coronavirus inquiry, which Beijing treated like a dropped grenade.

Explosive exchanges and accusations of hypocrisy now seem to come in volleys.

The tweet from Mr. Zhao, a known provocateur, had an obvious goal: to deflect criticism of China’s human rights abuses by sensationalizing an investigation by the Australian military that found its troops had unlawfully killed 39 Afghan civilians and prisoners over an 11-year period.

Mr. Morrison could have ignored the provocation. Instead, he pounced, and after Mr. Morrison’s apology demand, the Chinese government paid little mind to his request for a reset and dialogue. The official response arrived a few hours later when a government spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, suggested that Australia seemed to be indifferent to the killings.

“The Australian side is reacting so strongly to my colleague’s tweet. Does this mean they think the cruel killing of Afghan lives is justified?” Ms. Hua said.

An editorial in the state-run Global Times added: “The Morrison administration is making Australia provocative and wanting a spanking.” And on Tuesday, China accused Australia of intentionally “misreading” the tweet to deflect criticism.

Beyond the juvenile threats lies a more serious and intractable disconnect.

In the eyes of China’s most nationalist ideologues, Australia is violating the most basic rule of China’s rise: If you get rich with our help, stay quiet and grateful.

Few countries have gained as much wealth from China’s growth as Australia, and since coming to power in 2012, Xi Jinping has made clear that he expects silence and harmony from all who benefit from the Chinese Communist Party’s prosperity.

“Never allow singing to a tune contrary to the party center,” he once wrote in comments that appeared on party and university websites in 2014. “Never allow eating the Communist Party’s food and then smashing the Communist Party’s cooking pots.”

In the case of Mr. Zhao’s tweet, Mr. Xi has said nothing — further highlighting the asymmetry of Mr. Morrison’s complaint about a spokesman’s social media post.

To some of Mr. Morrison’s critics, the photo looked like internet trolling that he should have ignored or responded to at a lower level.

“They seem to have intended to make Morrison angry, and to goad him into exactly the kind of emotional response that he has now given them,” said Hugh White, a former intelligence official who teaches strategic studies at the Australian National University. “And that is worrying. In any fight like this one, be very careful not to do what your adversary wants you to do.”

Whether Mr. Morrison gets any aid from the United States or elsewhere, Mr. White added, the episode has already made Australia and Mr. Morrison “look rattled and weak.”

That makes China look more powerful and intimidating.

“The folks in Beijing do not want us to like them,” Mr. White said. “They want us to understand their power and their willingness to use it. Our problem is that we are being rather slow to realize that their power is real.”





No.6 article:
In England, Rumbles of Discontent as Parliament Votes to Exit Lockdown

Lawmakers approved new coronavirus restriction rules, but members of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party showed growing opposition to the measures.

LONDON — Much of England will swap lockdown for less stringent coronavirus restrictions, after Parliament approved new rules on Tuesday despite a substantial revolt among lawmakers in Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party.

The rebellion, by lawmakers who want to go farther in easing the limits on public life, underscored the rising tide of discontent among Mr. Johnson’s own members of Parliament over his handling of the pandemic, exacerbated by fears that the curbs could lay waste to large swathes of the hospitality industry.

Caught between the competing demands of this vocal faction of his lawmakers, and those of his more cautious scientific advisers, Mr. Johnson opted to keep stringent measures in place, including restrictions on many pubs and restaurants.

From Wednesday there will be some relaxation from the lockdown in all areas, as all stores, gyms, and hairdressers will be allowed to reopen. Religious services and weddings can restart, and limited numbers of spectators will be allowed at some outdoor sporting events.

But England will return to a system under which coronavirus restrictions differ from place to place, with areas of the country divided into three “tiers” based on an assessment of the coronavirus risks in each one. That is similar to the framework in place earlier in the year, which failed to prevent a second wave of the pandemic or avert last month’s lockdown.

So this time — and to the anger of many Conservative lawmakers — almost all of England will be in the top two tiers, placing significant restrictions on the hospitality trade in areas where around 55 million people live. The governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland set their own coronavirus rules.

A large part of England, home to around 23 million people, will be in the strictest tier, where pubs and restaurants will be shut except for takeout service.

In regions placed in the middle tier, including London, pubs will only be able to serve alcohol to customers who order a “substantial meal” — a condition that the government has struggled to explain when asked which types of food qualify.

As well as tripping up ministers, the debate over such loopholes has underscored the extent to which the state is dictating the minutiae of daily life, something that makes libertarian Conservative lawmakers distinctly queasy.

On Tuesday, critics in Parliament included several mainstays of the Conservative establishment like Graham Brady, who chairs an influential group of lawmakers.

“If government is to take away fundamental liberties of the people whom we represent they must illustrate beyond question they are acting in a way that is both proportionate and absolutely necessary,” said Mr. Brady, before concluding that the government had “failed to make that compelling case.”

His comments came after Mr. Johnson sought to placate critics, arguing that with the arrival of the vaccine on the horizon, “there is an end in sight,” but adding: “we cannot afford to relax, especially during the cold months of winter.”

The outcome of Tuesday’s vote in Parliament, which Mr. Johnson won by 291 to 78 was never in doubt after a decision by the opposition Labour Party to abstain.

Presented with a take-it-or-leave-it offer, Labour’s leader, Keir Starmer, told his lawmakers not to vote, saying that he did not want to stop the only set of restrictions available and therefore would not vote against them. He also said he did not want to endorse measures he described as insufficient and likely to fail. Mr. Starmer, who has recently ramped up criticism of the government’s handling on the pandemic, also called for more financial support for those struggling from the economic fallout.

Surveys generally show the public supports tough measures to control the spread of the virus and prevent the health service being overwhelmed, and Mr. Johnson’s government is hardly unique in the dilemmas it faces.

After a new rise of infections in Wales, all pubs will be banned from serving alcohol, starting on Friday, with the hospitality sector restricted by a 6 p.m. curfew.

Yet the scale of the Conservative revolt served a warning to Mr. Johnson, denting the authority of a government whose majority in Parliament looks less than solid only a year after he won a landslide election victory.

More than 50 of the 364 Conservative members of Parliament voted against the new measures on Tuesday — the biggest rebellion against Mr. Johnson since the election. Last month, 34 Conservative lawmakers voted against the lockdown measures.

Many Conservative lawmakers had demanded an assessment of the economic impact of the new restrictions but were dissatisfied with a subsequent government document that they felt was largely a rehash of material already published.

Aside from those who object to the new rules on libertarian grounds, several Conservative lawmakers disputed decisions to place the areas they represent in tier three of the restrictions, with the most stringent curbs.

The next highest category, tier two, where pubs can reopen but can only serve alcohol alongside a substantial meal, effectively forces bars that do not offer food to close.

But those rules have also prompted a lively debate about whether pubs can serve drinks alongside some less sophisticated British staples, including a Scotch egg — a boiled egg wrapped in sausage meat, coated in bread crumbs and then deep-fried.

Questioned on this topic, one minister, George Eustice, said on Monday that the Scotch egg would qualify as a substantial meal. Then on Tuesday, his cabinet colleague Michael Gove referred to it as a starter — rather than a main course — only to appear to contradict himself in another interview and suggest that it passed the pub meal test.

The loophole for pub goers was seized on by the Sun newspaper, which predicted what many drinkers would order when pubs finally open in tier two areas on Wednesday.

“Ten pints of lager … and a Scotch egg please,” read its banner headline.





No.7 article:
‘Georgia Is Not New York’: Progressives Adapt Efforts for Senate Runoffs

The two Democrats running in Georgia don’t share the far-reaching policy goals of their party’s left flank, but progressives are still trying to help them — with modified messages.

Neither Jon Ossoff nor the Rev. Raphael Warnock has endorsed the Green New Deal. But that hasn’t stopped the Sunrise Movement, the activist climate group that champions the sweeping climate change plan, from mobilizing in force for the two Georgia Democrats in their high-stakes runoff races for Senate seats.

The group is aiming to help register 10,000 to 20,000 Georgians who will turn 18 by Jan. 5, the day of the elections. It has people on the ground canvassing and dropping off campaign literature. And while its appeals mention the threat from climate change, it does not present the issue as a litmus test.

“Right now, we’re focused on the bigger picture,” said Shanté Wolfe, who is leading the Sunrise Movement’s work in Georgia. “Our effort is in favor of the greater good.”

The furious efforts in Georgia by the Sunrise Movement and other progressive groups — on behalf of two candidates who do not share their most ambitious policy goals — reflect the urgency that is consuming the Democratic Party’s left flank. Two victories in Georgia would produce a 50-50 tie in the Senate, giving Democrats control of the chamber because Kamala Harris would cast tiebreaking votes as vice president.

Without Democratic control, progressive lawmakers, activists and their grass-roots supporters worry that they will not be able to achieve even a pared-down version of their policy wish list for the country.

But they also understand that for decades Georgia has been a Republican stronghold with a large number of conservative voters, and that their efforts there need to be modulated. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won the state, many Democrats point out, with a moderate agenda that tempered the rhetoric and policy goals of the left. Mr. Biden, Mr. Warnock and Mr. Ossoff do not support “Medicare for all,” another priority of the party’s left wing.

Ms. Wolfe said the Sunrise Movement had tried to adjust its messaging for a state like Georgia by “making sure that we localize the Green New Deal in a way that resonates with Southerners.” For instance, canvassers are emphasizing how climate change affects the air that Georgians breathe, she said.

Other groups are also pouring money and resources into the state.

The Progressive Change Campaign Committee has already raised $386,000 for the two Democratic candidates. MoveOn, a progressive group, hopes to mobilize many of its 250,000 members in Georgia, and more nationwide, to canvass and phone bank in the state. Our Revolution, the political organization that spun out of Bernie Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, is currently contacting its 50,000 member households in the state to encourage them to request mail ballots.

“We are moving heaven and earth and pointing all of our resources as much as we can to help us win those two seats in Georgia,” said Jamaal Bowman, a New York Democrat who will be sworn into the next Congress.

Mr. Bowman said he spoke recently with Stacey Abrams, who narrowly lost the Georgia governor’s race in 2018 and is widely credited with voter turnout initiatives that helped flip Georgia blue this year, to see how he could support her efforts. And he said that he and other progressives in the House — including “the Squad,” a now-growing group that began with four congresswomen of color — were strategizing about how to help in Georgia.

“Georgia is not New York. It’s not California. It has its own culture,” Mr. Bowman said. “But it’s a culture rooted in justice for all, and we just want to make sure we support that initiative as much as we can, as representatives from other parts of the country.”

Amid deepening ideological fault lines among Democrats over messaging and electoral strategy — divisions that have burst into the open as the party takes stock of its painful losses down the ballot — the two Senate runoff elections will also be a test case for whether progressives can balance their broad calls for change with the realities of campaigning in a once reliably Republican state. 

Defeating two Republican incumbents, Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, will be no easy task for Mr. Ossoff and Mr. Warnock. Still, the competitiveness of the races, and the progressive focus on Georgia, underscores the political evolution occurring in the state.

Mr. Biden was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the state since Bill Clinton in 1992. And though Georgia does not have a reputation now as a hotbed of liberalism, some organizers and strategists inside and outside Georgia contend that it is becoming increasingly receptive to left-leaning ideas.

While many of the Democrats who won in Georgia last month were more moderate, including Carolyn Bourdeaux, who flipped a longtime Republican House district in metropolitan Atlanta, several local progressive candidates won farther down the ballot. They include Nicole Love Hendrickson, who became the first Black person elected as commission chairwoman of Gwinnett County, in suburban Atlanta.

Progressives see Georgia not as a one-off endeavor in 2020 but as a top target of their efforts for years to come.

“Is Georgia a Tier 1 state? Is Georgia a progressive state? Are we building a new Georgia? Yes, yes and yes,” said Britney Whaley, a political strategist with the Working Families Party, a progressive group that has been operating in Georgia since 2018 and has endorsed Mr. Warnock.

Nse Ufot, the chief executive of the New Georgia Project, which was founded by Ms. Abrams and has registered hundreds of thousands of new voters, said there was still “an obsession with moving white moderate men back into the Democratic Party.” But that thinking was mistaken, she said, even — and perhaps especially — in Georgia.

“It just feels like people do not get, and do not understand, what it takes to win and what it takes to win in the South,” she said. “We can contribute to this progressive majority — it’s just that it can’t be race-blind. It can’t be race neutral.”

There are plenty of signs that suggest liberals still face an uphill battle in Georgia. Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator and progressive standard-bearer, lost Georgia’s Democratic presidential primary to Hillary Clinton by more than 40 percentage points in 2016. (Mr. Sanders had dropped out of the race by the time Georgia held its primary in June this year.)

Mr. Biden beat President Trump in Georgia by making significant gains among affluent, college-educated and older voters in the suburbs around Atlanta, according to a New York Times Upshot analysis of the results; at the same time, the Black share of the electorate fell to its lowest point since 2006.

Those findings indicate that Democrats must still depend on the support of traditionally conservative voters to win statewide — rather than turning out a progressive majority led by young voters and nonwhite voters.

Even if the Democrats win the two Georgia Senate seats, progressives will still face significant barriers to passing their policies. It is unlikely that all 50 Democratic senators would get behind a left-wing policy proposal like expanding the Supreme Court, or that Mr. Biden would support it.

Representative Ro Khanna of California, the first vice chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said the Georgia races were “about the here and now.”

“We understand the stakes, and every progressive group that I know of has made that a priority with the same passion and determination as winning back the presidency,” he said.

But he also said the horizon for the movement was long. Even if Democrats fail to win control of the Senate, he said, progressives should try to pass an agenda in the House that includes less transformative policy goals than Medicare for all — including raising the minimum wage, forgiving student loan debt and expanding access to Medicare.

“I don’t think that their outcome should determine the boldness of our agenda,” Mr. Khanna said, referring to the Georgia runoffs. “The mistake would be to pull back.”

For the party’s left wing, the potential limits on a progressive agenda have not dampened the resolve.

In a fund-raising email last month, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts hailed Mr. Biden’s success as proof that “the path to victory in Georgia is clearer than ever.”

Then she issued a call to arms: “Democrats can win these two Senate races too — and we must.”





No.8 article:
New York’s Streets Have Brought Relief. Imagine Them Post-Pandemic.

It took a pandemic, but New York City is seeing more clearly than ever that its roadways can do more than move cars and trucks.

Restaurants transformed parking spaces into outdoor dining rooms festooned with lights and plants.

Children reclaimed the city’s side streets, playing catch on the asphalt.

Peaceful protesters flooded the streets with cries for justice in the police killings of Black Americans.

In a year with so little solace, New York’s streetscape has brought steady relief. It’s just one example of the many opportunities before the city in the months and years ahead to reimagine how its residents can live, work, play and get around town.

One solid step would be making expansive outdoor dining a permanent fixture of New York life. But there are more urgent tasks — such as protecting pedestrians and cyclists from vehicles. After years of progress, pedestrian and cyclist deaths rose to 126 in 2019, from 105 in 2018, and are on track this year to be only slightly lower. Overall traffic fatalities are up to 218 this year, from 191 in 2019, according to city data. City officials said vehicle registrations are up, and the city has had more reckless driving during the pandemic.

Also vital is improving air quality in low-income communities that are plagued by high asthma rates, like the Bronx, where residents have died of Covid-19 at far higher rates than the city as a whole. “We have smog in people’s backyards,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, whose district includes large swaths of the Bronx. “If you drive 40 minutes upstate, it’s almost shocking what fresh air feels like. In some communities you just think it’s normal that the air is just kind of heavier.”

Righting this injustice means having fewer and more efficient vehicles on the road. The city’s plan to transition to electric buses by 2040 can happen sooner, and should begin in these neighborhoods. New York can also look toward building an electric fleet of sanitation trucks as that technology improves. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said the next mayor — Bill de Blasio’s term is up next year — should reassess any tax cuts to companies and industries that bring heavy pollution with them. The city can improve the air quality in these communities even further by bringing back and significantly expanding a borough-based composting system to reduce waste that is inevitably diverted through transfer stations in the South Bronx, a shift that can also bring jobs to New Yorkers who need them.

New York’s mayor and congressional representatives need to fight hard in Washington for the infrastructure dollars the city needs. That’s the only way the city can reinvest in its aging subway system, harden critical regional infrastructure and expand its bus network to areas of the city that are less accessible, like eastern Queens. Coaxing people out of their cars demands that these efforts succeed.

Other changes need to be made to the roadways themselves. The city should move faster to build a thoroughly interconnected network of protected bike lanes. It also needs pedestrian and cyclist islands at dangerous intersections. More dedicated bus lanes and car-free avenues, like 14th Street in Manhattan, may help.

A few small ideas: How about making New York’s notorious trash problem part of the solution? Instead of letting those stinky piles of refuse pile up at the curb, why not put the city’s trash into critter-proof enclosures placed between cyclists and cars? They could even have flower beds on top.

The next mayor should feel free to get creative.

Mitchell Moss, director of the Rudin Center for Transportation at New York University, said the key is to invest in public space in general. The city has some 1,700 parks and playgrounds, upon which New Yorkers have relied heavily during the pandemic. “We have to use our assets,” Mr. Moss said. He added that the city would be smart to focus more resources in the outer boroughs, which teemed with life even as large swaths of Manhattan emptied earlier this year. “The people who didn’t leave this city have found a way to make this city more livable,” he said.

With New York City facing a budget crisis, some changes will be difficult, or they may take longer than they should. Change is generally difficult in New York, home to a political class that tends toward calcification.

But amid unthinkable loss and suffering this year, lessons have been learned. Embracing those lessons is in some ways the greatest challenge facing New York, an old, proud city ready to be born anew.

Jordan Gale is a freelance photographer. He moved to New York in February, and has been documenting the city throughout the year.





No.9 article:
How to Make the Perfect Cookie Box

Eleven months out of the year, I make what would be considered an above average, but not excessive, number of cookies.

But come December, when I pretend my baking obsession is just an expression of seasonal glee, I give myself free rein. Around the holidays, I can legitimize a baking frenzy that, in June, would seem like the flour-dusted ravings of a gingerbread maniac.

While eating the cookies is part of the appeal, so is giving them away, packed by the dozen into tissue-paper-lined boxes. Off they go, to friends, neighbors, teachers, mail carriers — the list is as long as the shortbreads are buttery.

And, pandemic be darned, I plan to continue the tradition this holiday season. Even though I won’t throw a big latke party or Christmas Eve dinner, I can still deliver cookie boxes at a safe distance to my loved ones, a tangible way to spread joy when we need it more than ever.

To keep my yearly baking blowouts at least somewhat organized, I’ve kept a cookie log over the past two decades, noting substitutions, successes and the occasional cookie box failure. (Cardamom in the rugelach is a good idea; adding savory Cheddar cayenne crackers to the box is not.)

[For all eight of Melissa Clark’s cookie box recipes, see our collection.]

The log is also helpful for remembering which cookies I’ve made so I don’t repeat myself too often, and to preserve the recipes for future baking. My goal is always to create a visually stunning cookie box with a balance of flavors and textures that tastes even better than it looks. And over the years, I’ve figured out a way to do it that soothes, rather than adds to, my holiday stress — no piping, no arranging dragées with tweezers, no unearthing rulers or candy thermometers (though I do love a spritzing gun). Bakers should have as much fun making these cookies as their friends will have eating them.

If you’re feeling the urge to make cookie boxes for family and friends, here are my tips for putting them together.

I believe in offering a wide assortment of cookies in every box. There’s nothing better than discovering a hidden almond snowball beneath a gingerbread frog. Being enthusiastic, I strive for eight kinds, but three or four is enough to create the thrill.

Jam-filled cookies like rugelach and honey-roasted peanut thumbprints are sturdy and pretty, and the moisture in the jam keeps them soft for a few weeks. Plus, their chewy fruitiness adds another dimension of flavor and texture.

Recipes: Cherry Rugelach With Cardamom Sugar | Honey-Roasted Peanut Thumbprints

Put these on the top to dazzle when the lid comes off. Think vivid-hued gingerbread painted with royal icing and festooned with sprinkles, or sugar-topped vanilla bean spritz cookies with delicate browned edges that melt in your mouth. Flat, plain cookies like shortbread can rest on the bottom.

Recipes: Sparkly Gingerbread | Vanilla Bean Spritz Cookies

Either a buttery, nubby crunch like a cornmeal lime shortbread, or a nutty crunch, like toasted almond snowballs dusted with lots of powdered sugar, will round out the textures of the mix, making it even more fun to eat. Plus, crunchy cookies are perfect for dunking, which is a necessary cookie box pastime.

Recipes: Cornmeal Lime Shortbread Fans | Toasted Almond Snowballs

Whether sprinkled with sea salt, strewn with chopped candy canes, or — as I’m doing this year — crowned with nuggets of white chocolate that caramelize as they bake, brownies are some of the easiest cookies to make, and possibly the most beloved chocolate option. But truffles, chocolate sugar cookies or double chocolate cookies will also get you there. And if you can’t make up your mind, no one will be sad to find two different chocolate cookies cozied up in one box.

Recipe: Black and White Brownies

Bourbon balls, rum balls, brandy snaps, even mini fruitcakes are perfect for the holidays, and the alcohol helps preserve them, so they keep for weeks. Just warn your friends that some of the cookies in the box may not be kid-appropriate — which will also guarantee there will be something leftover for the adults.

Boozy cookies are my particular favorites to have on hand when all the flour has been wiped off the counters and the sparkly sugar has been mopped from the floor. That’s when I can relax with a bourbon and a bourbon ball, savoring the fruits of another excellent holiday cookie extravaganza — while already planning for the next one.

Recipe: Fudgy Bourbon Balls

Join Melissa Clark on Dec. 5 as she demonstrates her techniques for baking and mailing her favorite holiday cookies, followed by a panel with the writers and bakers Dorie Greenspan, Sohla El-Waylly and Samantha Seneviratne in which they share tips and answer viewer questions. R.S.V.P. here. 

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.10 article:
Goodbye, Blazers; Hello, ‘Coatigans.’ Women Adjust Attire to Work at Home.

In the Before Times, said Rebecca Rittenberg, a 28-year-old who works in advertising sales for Google in New York, one of her favorite parts about going to the office was “showing up in a funky, cool professional outfit.”

A smart pair of pants, colorful or patterned blouses, blazers, skirts, dresses, heeled boots and designer sneakers were all part of her wardrobe, which she used to express her personality and keep up with her stylish ad world colleagues.

Now, after eight months of working from home, and with Google saying workers won’t have to return in person until next summer at the earliest, a big swath of that apparel has been donated and replaced. Ms. Rittenberg’s new definition of “work clothes” includes cashmere cardigans and joggers, headbands, and other cozy garments that fall somewhere in the “healthy in-between” of pajamas and blazers.

“I looked at my stuff I used to wear to the office all the time and thought, ‘When am I ever going to touch this again?’” she said. “Our mind-sets have shifted a bit with this pandemic and the fact that we’ve all been working from home for so long. Once we are back in the office, which I do think will happen, it just seems like a pretty extreme jump to go back to wearing a blazer and pencil skirt and heels again.”

As many professional women have found themselves in an extended period of remote work, their notions of work wear have transformed, shaking up businesses that have sought to outfit them for the office. American office attire was already facing the effects of “casualization” — even Goldman Sachs loosened its dress code last year — but as the pandemic drags on, the shift is accelerating and may stick around for good.

Bloomingdale’s has watched customers increasingly seek out cashmere, flat shoes, pants with elastic waistbands and other comfy apparel, while brands like Theory have rushed to add more casual clothing to their lines, said Denise Magid, an executive vice president at Bloomingdale’s who oversees ready-to-wear apparel.

“Regardless of when people go back to the office, I think people have grown comfortable with what they’re wearing,” Ms. Magid said. “I just can’t see people giving away the feeling of comfort.”

The retail landscape is changing with the new needs of the remote worker. Bankruptcies this year included Brooks Brothers and the owner of Ann Taylor and Loft. Rent the Runway closed all of its stores and removed its unlimited subscription option. In Gap Inc.’s latest quarter, net sales soared 15 percent at Old Navy and 35 percent at Athleta while plummeting 34 percent at Banana Republic.

Gap named a new head of Banana Republic last week and said on an earnings call that the brand had been “working hard to update its product assortment” for an era of remote work, favoring more casual clothes over tailored garments and suiting. 

Professional women have long been a lucrative market. Retailers see them as customers who tend to have money to spend and are willing to pay for apparel that will help them feel confident in the workplace, fit into busy lifestyles or offer up the right look for a “desk to dinner” sort of day. The attire is often dry-clean only, stiffer and more structured than weekend clothes, and modest in neckline and hemline. Many of those products — and how they are marketed — have now changed.

Last fall, Banana Republic’s site and social media featured colorful heels and models wearing “quintessential Banana Republic with a modern twist — think cozy cable knits and Italian corduroy, double-breasted plaid blazers and moleskin jackets.” This season, its site includes looks for virtual interviews and a “work leisure” section, with soft ponte leggings, turtleneck sweater dresses, cheetah-print socks and “coatigans.”

Some women appear to be clearing out office attire from their closets through donations and resales. The RealReal said consignments of work dresses more than doubled between Aug. 1 and Oct. 15 compared with the same period last year, exceeding significant jumps in consignments of cocktail dresses and evening dresses. On Poshmark, listings of women’s blazers and suit jackets from July to Sept. 30 jumped 30 percent from a year earlier, while listings of women’s pencil skirts rose 32 percent.

Jackie Temkin, 33, had already started selling many of her more formal Washington, D.C., office clothes on Poshmark after graduating from business school in 2018 and establishing a design studio in Charlottesville, Va. But she said demand for such apparel had seemed to dry up since March.

“I feel that a lot of employers have learned you really can get a lot of stuff done at home and workplace norms from before are no longer applicable,” Ms. Temkin said. She added that her work wardrobe was already radically different from how she recalled her mother dressing for her job as a lawyer.

“She had dress suits and skirt suits and things like that, and that was their uniform every day,” Ms. Temkin said. She recalled her mother once using fake tanner on her legs in the summer to make it look as though she were wearing pantyhose. “It’s just such a huge shift,” she said.

M.M.LaFleur, a seller of stylish women’s workplace apparel that was founded in 2011, has worked to recover from the hit it has taken this year. The brand has cut back on suiting for the spring and leaned more heavily into the “power casual” category, which it introduced several years ago.

“It was actually inspired by our San Francisco tech customers, who were saying, ‘I can’t wear dresses or a suit to work because then people think I’m interviewing, but I’m also not going to wear a hoodie and sweatpants like the engineers because that is so not me,’” said Sarah LaFleur, the brand’s founder and chief executive. “That style has become more mainstream now, so a lot of what we have been doing is really designing to that woman.”

It includes cashmere sweaters, a “jardigan” jacket and “better than jean” pants. Ms. LaFleur said that while sales of Zoom-friendly tops had initially outpaced bottoms during the pandemic, there was a sudden uptick in pants in June.

She could relate. “After 100 days of being in sweatpants, I needed to feel like I was getting out of bed,” she said, adding that customers have gravitated to pants that look tailored but feel as comfortable as sweatpants.

The company has also rebranded some of its wares. Its crisp-looking “Colby pants,” once marketed in an “Origami Suiting” collection as wrinkle resistant and easy to fold for business trips, were renamed “Colby joggers” online, with new emphasis on their casual appeal and elastic waistband. Sales soared sevenfold. The brand was helped because it already carried machine-washable work wear, a product of Ms. LaFleur’s belief that dry cleaning is “a sexist industry” based on its prices for men’s and women’s clothing.

Kathryn Minshew, the 35-year-old founder of the Muse, a site for job seekers in their 20s and 30s, said she had become far less tolerant of portions of her wardrobe that she once wore to the office, including trousers and certain dresses.

“I didn’t have very much clothing that was incredibly uncomfortable, but I had a lot of clothing that was normal work wear uncomfortable,” she said. “It was a little bit structured, a little bit tight, it pulls a little bit when you move in certain ways. A lot of work dresses and work tops for women that are fitted, they’re fine, but they’re not the most comfortable things.”

She anticipated that “many women will keep a part of their closet for powerhouse outfits and special occasions.” But, she added, “I do believe it will get smaller over time the longer that the pandemic goes on and therefore the more that we collectively get used to this type of living and working.”

Ultimately, Ms. Minshew said, any longer-term shifts could help ease the pressure women feel to present themselves a certain way in the workplace.

Indeed, Ms. Rittenberg from Google said she realized that she was dressing for herself more than ever rather than for clients, her team or the office at large, which has been refreshing.

“The pandemic equals so much craze in our life,” she said. It stands to reason, she said, that people are “trying to make their clothes as comfortable, fuzzy and warm as possible so we don’t have an added layer of structure and chaos that we didn’t ask for.”





No.11 article:
To See and Be Seen: These Dancers Make Disability Visible

Heidi Latsky’s “On Display” and Kinetic Light’s “Descent” show the broadness and diversity of the field of disability dance.

It’s not polite to stare. Especially if you perceive the person you’re looking at as different in some way. But if you avert your eyes quickly, there’s no time for your perception of difference to change.

“On Display” disrupts this pattern. It’s a performance art exhibition, a group of people acting as if they were sculptures. They pose in stillness, with their eyes open, or move between poses very slowly, eyes closed. They do this for hours. There’s lots of time to look, to see and be seen.

By design, these bodies exhibit difference. “On Display” is a project of Heidi Latsky Dance, the kind of company called physically integrated, which means that its diverse array of dancers includes many who are disabled. The project began in 2015 as guerrilla art in Times Square commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

“In stillness, the dancers are beautiful, vulnerable,” Ms. Latsky said in a phone interview. “But there’s also a fierceness in their ability to be exposed. The longer they’re still, the more you can see.”

That first iteration went so well that Ms. Latsky remarked to a friend that she wished people could do it all over the world on a given day. The friend — Kelly Drummond Cawthon, the creative director of Second Echo, a Tasmanian ensemble that trains and employs artists with and without disabilities — responded with a date: Dec. 3, the United Nations’ International Day of Persons With Disabilities. Thus “On Display Global” was born.

Since then, it has expanded from New York and Australia to dozens of sites across the world. And this year, it’s going to be even larger — a 24-hour Zoom gathering on Thursday with performers from more than 30 countries, grouped by geography into segments that are a half-hour to two hours long. Join at 12 a.m. Eastern time, and it’s a window to the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery. Join later, and the virtual view might open onto apartments in Amsterdam or rooftops in Iran.

Also on Thursday (through Saturday), the disability arts ensemble Kinetic Light is streaming a film of its acclaimed work “Descent” on the website of the University of Minnesota, Northrop. In aim and approach, “Descent” differs greatly from “On Display.” And that means that the two projects, taken together, can throw a little light on the variety of disability dance today.

“The field is broad and complicated,” Alice Sheppard, Kinetic Light’s artistic director, said in a recent interview. “No one work should be taken as representative of the whole. As we would expect of any other group, there are different subcultures, different interpretations.”

“When I’m dancing in ‘On Display,&#x27; I’m giving the spectators an entree to gawk,” said Quemuel Arroyo, who joined Heidi Latsky Dance in 2015. “I allow them to see me, but the real me, to see me as I want to be seen.”

For Mr. Arroyo, that means as a dancer, a performer, “a person with abilities despite my disability.” He broke his spine in a mountain biking accident 13 years ago and has used a wheelchair ever since. An athlete — a rock climber, sailor, scuba diver — he likens the experience of being in “On Display” to sky-diving.

“It’s scary and it’s uncomfortable,” he said. “You think, ‘What the hell am I doing, letting these people look at me?’ But the other part of my mind is thinking, ‘Isn’t this awesome? Here I am, tearing apart misconceptions about what a person with disabilities can offer.’”

“It shows how we’re not very different from one another,” he continued. “It doesn’t matter that I’m Dominican, that I’m in a wheelchair. It’s my humanity that people see.”

Donald Lee, another company member, said that “On Display” is about “quieting and emptying and getting to the core of your being.” It’s also about entering into the unknown. “You’re sculpted by time and the environment like a Calder mobile,” he said. “You become the art, a self-portrait.”

When Mr. Lee, a bilateral amputee, first saw photos of himself in “On Display,” he was shocked. “I had never looked at my stumps,” he said. “I had never seen myself that way before, as a work of art.”

Mr. Lee believes that people who watch “On Display” can experience similar revelations. “When they see me, they see something in themselves,” he said.

Both Mr. Arroyo and Mr. Lee stress the importance of integration and lament how their nondisabled colleagues are often treated as invisible by audience members and the media. “The whole idea of ‘On Display’ is that we want everybody to be seen,” Mr. Lee said. “You’re not seeing a disabled person. You’re seeing our society. You’re seeing yourself.”

Aspects of this year’s event will be different, of course. The shared gaze isn’t the same over Zoom. Everyone will be muted. Because of the pandemic, many if not most performers will be alone, at home in their private spaces. That’s a new sort of intimacy and exposure. (The 10 dancers from Nalitari, a troupe in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, are gathering, distanced, in their company studio. They don’t have internet connections at home.)

Joining for the first time is a group from Beirut. Some of these participants became physically disabled very recently, in an explosion that rocked the city in August. And as the group’s organizer, Shirine Jurdi, explained in a video call — a call interrupted by one of Lebanon’s regular power outages — participating in the event also has benefits for those experiencing other challenges and trauma, as many in Beirut are. She said a virtual practice session with Ms. Latsky relaxed her: “It was the first night since the explosion that I slept.”

Even in virtual form, the project’s ethos of inclusiveness remains constant. “It’s not just people with disabilities,” Ms. Latsky said. “It’s a meditative space where the world can come together.” Viewers have the option of turning their own cameras off or on.

Ms. Sheppard began her dance career in physically integrated companies. That, she said, is still the only way for a disabled dancer to get training. But what she does with Kinetic Light, she emphasized, is different from the physically integrated model. It’s rooted in the conversations, politics and perspectives of people in the disability community, in inside jokes and states of being.

“I’m not some amazing person doing all this work,” she said. “Over here, in the culture, people have practices and knowledge and history that are way beyond the question of ability or non-ability, the language of ‘despite disability.’ This work is how people are. It’s just that it hasn’t fully registered in the nondisabled world.”

Almost all of “Descent” — from the choreography and performance to the design of the lighting, set, sound and custom-made wheelchairs to the film editing and audio description app — is the work of disabled artists. “And that changes the work,” Ms. Sheppard said. “It allows you to ask different questions about who is centered.”

Take the set. While access ramps are often ugly or merely functional, this ramp is reimagined for the aesthetic and sensual pleasure of wheelchair users. Ms. Sheppard and Laurel Lawson, while suggesting a love story between Venus and Andromeda and borrowing poses from Rodin sculptures, ride its curves with roller-derby force and ice-dance grace.

Or consider the audio version for blind audience members. It’s less a description of a visual experience than a separate sonic one, a companion work of art. “Sighted folks, less expert in ways of listening, often find it overwhelming,” Ms. Sheppard noted.

“Rather than access being retroactive accommodation, we’re thinking about access from the very beginning,” Ms. Sheppard said. “When you invite someone to a show, you want them to experience it, not somebody else’s description of it. We aren’t there yet, but we’re working toward an equitable aesthetic experience.”

“Access is not a checklist,” she continued. “It’s a relationship, a promise. It’s creative, generative, so it’s always growing.”





No.12 article:
Pantyhose and Trash Bags: How Music Programs Are Surviving in the Pandemic

In 13 years of playing flute, Gabriella Alvarez never imagined playing with a clear plastic trash bag around her instrument. Kevin Vigil never foresaw his fellow tuba players wrapping pantyhose around their instrument bells.

And neither expected to watch their marching band at New Mexico State University play through cloth face masks, separated by six-foot loops of water pipe, with bags filled with hand sanitizer and disinfectant strapped around their waists.

But this is band practice in a pandemic.

The two students, both seniors, are grateful to have practice at all. In March, the coronavirus shut down their band along with much of the country, painfully demonstrating that the pandemic would leave no part of their education untouched. It would take five months for them to regain the precious ability to play together again.

“In the middle of this summer, I started playing my instrument alone and sat there crying because I was just so upset,” Ms. Alvarez, 22, said. “Making music with other people is part of why I do it.”

In dozens of interviews, students and educators described similar travails — and similar adaptations — in music programs across the country. In many districts, schools have paused their music programs or moved them online out of concerns that aerosol transmission of the coronavirus during band or chorus practices would turn them into superspreader events.

Those bands and orchestras that have moved their programs online often found that ordinary video chat platforms are inadequate because of audio lag. And students have said there is simply no substitute for in-person practices, performances and instruction. Even in small group or private lesson via webcam, the details of proper posture, pitch and rhythm are lost, they said.

Ms. Alvarez, who is studying music performance, lost the one-on-one guidance she needed to prepare for auditions with professional orchestras. Mr. Vigil’s first student teaching position, critical for the degree in music education he is seeking, was canceled. Rather than risk entering a job market ravaged by the virus, both chose to postpone graduation.

Unable to introduce music to children during their formative years, teachers fear a lasting drop in participation that could wipe out much of the next generation of musicians.

“If children and even college students can’t participate in music, it’s going to create such a void and it’s going to reverberate for a long time,” said Mark J. Spede, president of the College Band Directors National Association.

Instead of ensemble music, some programs have been teaching music history or theory, or having students submit videos of themselves playing their instruments that are incorporated into collages that make it seem as if they are performing together. But creating such collages requires resources that many schools cannot afford.

At North Kansas City High School in Missouri, where the governor has slashed the education budget, the band director Carrie Epperson has only half of last year’s funds, and she is still waiting on bell covers her school district promised to send to wind instrumentalists. Nevertheless, mask wearing and strict social distancing seem to have worked: no band members have tested positive for the coronavirus.

Brenna Ohrmundt is the band director for a small, low-income district in rural Wisconsin, where coronavirus cases have skyrocketed in recent weeks. When schools shuttered in March, many students did not have instruments at home. When they returned to classrooms this fall, they still were not allowed to play together.

“What I’m afraid of is, students are going to say, ‘This is not what I signed up for,’” Ms. Ohrmundt said.

Yet, at a time when students could be discouraged from continuing to study music, educators are finding innovative ways for them to play together safely.

Mr. Spede, who is also director of bands at Clemson University, recognized early on that educators did not know which music activities might be safe. He initiated a study in which researchers at the University of Colorado and the University of Maryland have been measuring the spread of aerosols when people sing, dance or play instruments.

“My biggest fear was that people, administrators, whoever were going to have a knee-jerk reaction and say that can’t possibly be safe, to play music in person,” Mr. Spede said. “What we’re trying to do with the study is, literally, save music.”

Preliminary results from the study show that some simple rules can help prevent the virus from spreading in music groups: mask wearing, even if that entails cutting a hole in it to play an instrument; covering the bell of brass instruments, such as trumpets, with nylon (pantyhose work); and practicing outdoors where possible, or in properly ventilated areas.

“Even that information gives people hope right now, which we desperately need,” said Rebecca Phillips, president of the National Band Association and the director of bands at Colorado State University.

Ms. Alvarez cried tears of joy and relief on the day in August when New Mexico State’s marching band reunited.

Steven Smyth, the university’s associate director of bands, worked all summer with faculty and students to put into place safety measures. Practice is now always outdoors. To enforce social distancing, Mr. Smyth designed six-foot “hula hoops” made of water pipes that encircle each musician. He recruited a flute player who is studying engineering to customize masks with slits that snap shut magnetically for the woodwind players.

Nylon bell covers were ordered for brass players. And, following another recommendation from the study, brass players must empty “spit valves,” a tap that drains condensation from inside the instrument, onto absorptive puppy pee pads.

“There was a lot of negativity going around,” Ms. Alvarez said. “But once those masks came out, a lot of people started saying, ‘Oh, we’re coming back. This is happening.’”

Mr. Smyth said this week that the marching band had not had a student test positive for the coronavirus. Nationally, the College Band Directors National Association reports that no infections among college band students have been attributed to band activities, Mr. Spede said.

“I feel a little bit safer just knowing that there are a lot of people fighting to keep the arts alive,” Mr. Vigil said.

Other schools have used similarly creative measures. Villanova University ordered goggles for their marching band after researchers in China found fewer virus cases among people with glasses, suggesting that eye protection could reduce spread of the virus. At West Chester University, plexiglass walls separate instructors from students in private lessons.

The Northern Virginia Community College campus in Annandale, Va., is home to a thriving symphony orchestra, open to students and members of the community. Despite having fewer resources and a smaller music department than most universities, it has the support of Reunion Music Society, a local nonprofit group that helped it reach record enrollment this year.

“This orchestra would not exist without community involvement,” said Ralph Brooker, president of Reunion Music Society and principal cellist in the orchestra.

This fall, the conductor, Christopher Johnston, has been organizing about 50 active orchestra members, who include older musicians, into small groups. Some rehearse six feet apart in carports and church parking lots, but most use JamKazam, a video chat platform that allows musicians to see and hear each other in real time.

The technology is imperfect. At a jazz group meeting, JamKazam kept booting Mr. Johnston off the call. The musicians turned to Zoom, where audio lag caused the individual parts of “My Funny Valentine” to trip drunkenly over each other. The song was barely recognizable, but the musicians grinned in their little onscreen boxes — the thrill of playing together had not been dampened.

“There is therapy in getting together with other musicians.” Mr. Johnston said. “It’s helping us cope with all of the negative byproducts of this time, one of which is loneliness.”

Safety measures have gone far to reassure students and educators. Results from a survey distributed this fall show that participation in school and community bands has held steady since last year, according to James Weaver, director of performing arts with the National Federation of State High School Associations. Though about 200 of the more than 2,000 band programs surveyed are currently “frozen,” only four education-based bands were canceled outright.

Musicians at every level say that those who were passionate about a career in music before the pandemic are only more motivated now. Ms. Alvarez plans to get a master’s degree in music performance after she graduates. Mr. Vigil, who aspires to teach music at the college level, has leaned into his leadership role with the marching band.

In Wisconsin, Ms. Ohrmundt spent weeks hand-sewing masks, soliciting donations of bell covers and scrounging up pillowcases that woodwind players could wrap around their instruments — all in hopes of gathering her high school band in the gym for its first practice in months. But a surge in the virus has postponed in-person activities into next year.

In Missouri, Nevaeh Diaz, who graduated from North Kansas City High School in May, is now studying music education at Missouri State University.

In playing the drums in high school, Ms. Diaz had found a healthy outlet for her anxiety and depression. And during the pandemic, she leaned even more on her band director, Ms. Epperson, who personally delivered one of the school’s expensive marimbas to Ms. Diaz’s home for a virtual scholarship audition.

Now she looks at Ms. Epperson as a model for the high school band director she aims to become.

“I’m not here for the money, I’m here to change a life,” Ms. Diaz said. “If I can be the teacher to the student that Epp was for me, then I will do that.”





No.13 article:
Georgina Mace, Who Shaped List of Endangered Species, Dies at 67

She rewrote the global Red List, which describes which species are in trouble, and warned that the world must restore its ecological balance or pay a steep price.

When Georgina Mace was thinking about taking on a new challenge — to improve a system for determining which species around the world were at risk of going extinct — “my boss at the time advised me not to touch it,” she said in 2016, because the task “could end up being a lot of work for no purpose at all.”

Luckily for the planet, she disagreed.

Dr. Mace, one of the world’s most prominent conservation biologists, went on to provide a firm scientific foundation for a list of endangered species that had for many years been compiled by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Called the Red List, it helps governments and environmental groups decide how to focus their efforts.

The Red List was initially “a haphazard affair” when it was created in 1964, said Simon Stuart, director of strategic conservation for Synchronicity Earth, an environmental charity, and a former official of the International Union for Conservation of Nature. There were no solid criteria for determining which animals should or should not be listed. Rather, “politics and personalities played a big role in decisions,” he said in a phone interview, and the list tended toward so-called “charismatic” species, like the great apes.

In the early 1990s, Dr. Mace, then working for the Zoological Society of London, began the long process of developing the criteria for a more scientifically disciplined list. The challenge: to develop a practical method rigorous enough to be convincing but simple enough to be rapidly applicable to thousands of species.

“Her genius was to find that balance,” said H. Reşit Akçakaya, a professor in the department of ecology and evolution at Stony Brook University on Long Island.

Dr. Mace died on Sept. 19 in hospice care in Oxford, England. She was 67. Her death, which was not widely reported in the mainstream press, was caused by breast cancer, her brother Dr. Peter Mace said.

Humans are causing species of animals and plants to decline at an accelerating rate, with as many as one million now at risk of extinction — a prospect that threatens to disrupt ecosystems that people around the world depend on for survival. The causes are numerous and complex; they include deforestation and other forms of habitat disruption, hunting and overfishing, transport of invasive species, and climate change.

In giving the Red List its more scientific underpinnings, Dr. Mace used a methodology based on the science of population dynamics and on evidence of species decline. Extinction risk, it turned out, could be measured from a small number of ecological characteristics, including a species’ evolutionary history and its rate of population growth or loss.

Her system has proved not only remarkably effective and durable but also flexible enough to incorporate climate change as an extinction threat. The list has grown to include more than 120,000 species of animals, plants and fungi; some 32,000 are currently listed as endangered.

Dr. Mace’s methods were considered radical at first. Dr. Stuart recalled that in the mid-1990s, representatives of government agencies regulating fisheries argued that it was wrong to list commercially viable fish like bluefin tuna and North Atlantic cod as endangered when they were seemingly still plentiful. In his view they were at risk because they were being overfished.

“I was feeling intimidated,” Dr. Stuart said. “But Georgina remained calm and answered all points with accuracy and self assurance, and disarmed her opponents.” The listing stayed.

In a 2016 interview with the BBC, Dr. Mace said, “People still criticize the criteria, but everybody accepts that there’s a universal system.”

Nathalie Pettorelli, a senior scientist with the Zoological Society of London, said of Dr. Mace, “She was never the one that shouted, but she was always the one that would be listened to.”

Beneath that quiet demeanor was a crackling wit. Dr. Stuart recalled a scientific meeting when he asked Dr. Mace politely — perhaps too politely — to take on more duties.

“Simon, you slimy toad,” she responded, smiling. He recalled the moment as “one of my greatest honors,” adding, “and, of course, she went on and did it.”

Georgina Mary Mace was born in the Lewisham borough of South London on July 12, 1953, to Dr. Bill Mace, a rheumatologist, and Josephine (Bruce) Mace, a nurse and medical illustrator.

She received her undergraduate degree in zoology from the University of Liverpool in 1975 and her Ph.D. in biology from the University of Sussex in 1979. After completing postdoctoral work at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, she returned to Britain went to work for the Zoological Society of London, eventually rising to director of science. She held a position at Imperial College London from 2006 to 2012, when she joined University College London.

A fellow of the Royal Society, she was made a dame of the British Empire in 2016.

Dr. Mace married Rod Evans, who survives her, in 1985. In addition to him and her brother, she is survived by three children, Ben, Emma and Kate; one grandchild; and another brother, Edward.

Dr. Mace championed restoration of biological diversity and was a major contributor to a project called the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, which laid out the value of a healthy natural planet for the world’s people and its economies.

In a tribute on the website of the British Ecological Society, Professors Jon Bridle and Kate Jones of the Center for Biodiversity &amp; Environment Research at University College London wrote that Dr. Mace’s work had “helped to reveal the ecological emergency that we face, and that we have less than a decade to prevent.”

“Perhaps her most remarkable achievement,” they added, “was the way she could calmly convince an audience of this fact, while expressing an unwavering optimism that we still have time to forge a more creative interaction with the rest of nature, one that benefits more than a wealthy minority, and one that can last more than just a few more decades.”

Dr. Mace continued to work even after she learned she had cancer. “She never mentioned her illness to others unless she absolutely had to,” her brother Peter, a physician, said. “She didn’t want to be categorized by it. She wanted to get on with her life, to get on with her job, which she enjoyed hugely.”

To her, he said, the disease “was an irrelevance, a nuisance.”

Shortly before her death, the journal Nature published an article co-written by Dr. Mace suggesting that “bending the curve” of species loss could still be addressed, and nature’s balance restored, through an ambitious international effort.

Dr. Mace acknowledged in a 2009 interview with The Guardian that “it is hard to be optimistic — we are not yet even embarking on doing the right things for the planet.” Still, she added, “All the evidence to date is that when societies put their mind to solving a problem, they can generally do it.”





No.14 article:
Our Democracy’s Near-Death Experience

Now is no time for complacency. The next Congress must shore up our institutions.

It appears that our democracy dodged a bullet — or, more precisely, multiple concerted efforts by the president of the United States to torpedo its very foundations.

While President Trump rages relentlessly about election “fraud,” many Republican leaders continue to parrot false denials of the validity of President-elect Joe Biden’s clear victory. Yet, so far, our democracy has withstood the greatest stress test of our lifetimes.

Mr. Trump and his political allies have been employing nearly every weapon at their disposal to try to retain the White House, notwithstanding the will of the people.

First, the Trump campaign labored (largely in vain) to concoct bogus conspiracy theories to discredit Mr. Biden by falsely smearing his son Hunter. To do so, Mr. Trump and his associates solicited foreign assistance from Ukraine and China and relied on Russian agents to disseminate disinformation.

Second, Trump supporters worked assiduously to suppress the vote by denigrating the legitimacy of mail-in ballots during a pandemic, limiting access to ballot drop-boxes and polling stations, flooding social media with messaging to dampen minority voter turnout, blasting robocalls to deceive voters about where and when to vote and manipulating the postal system to delay ballot delivery.

Third, some of Mr. Trump’s most ardent supporters intimidated voters at the polls. Heeding calls to “stand by” and “go into the polls and watch very carefully,” they deployed, sometimes armed, in Black and brown communities under the guise of ensuring no fraudulent votes were cast.

Fourth, in the run-up to Election Day, Mr. Trump dispatched an army of litigants to enlist the courts in curtailing access to the polls. Since the election, his legal team has tried repeatedly to halt ballot counting and toss out legitimately cast votes that most likely favored Mr. Biden. Ultimately, Mr. Trump summoned Michigan’s Republican leaders to the White House, apparently in an attempt to coax the state’s Legislature into unilaterally appointing Trump electors.

Despite these machinations, the worst fears about this election failed to materialize. Defying the combined challenges of the pandemic, a chaotic primary season, foreign interference and presidential sabotage, the 2020 election proved to be one of the cleanest and, according to senior U.S. officials, the “most secure” in our nation’s history. The American people voted in unprecedented numbers, risking their health and foiling efforts in many states to make voting as difficult as possible. African-Americans, especially, braved countless barriers to casting their ballots.

There is no proof, nor even credible evidence, of significant voting irregularities, much less fraud. Republican and Democratic state and local officials largely adhered to their legal responsibilities, conducting the tabulation and certification processes honestly and transparently. Federal officials, sometimes collaborating with the private sector, effectively minimized the impact of Russian electoral interference.

The mainstream media duly prepared the public for a protracted counting process, refrained from rushing to call the outcomes in key states and resisted amplifying false allegations of fraud, thereby helping to temper public anxiety.

There has been no significant election-related violence. Supporters of Mr. Biden celebrated joyously, while supporters of Mr. Trump protested a week later without major incident.

Countries around the world have accepted the result, almost uniformly congratulating Mr. Biden on his decisive victory, with many expressing eagerness to renew relations with the United States.

For now, our democracy has held.

Still, the lesson we must learn is not a reassuring one: A determined autocrat in the White House poses a grave threat to our democratic institutions and can severely undermine faith in our elections, particularly when backed by partisans in Congress.

Perhaps only when the stars are optimally aligned — when voters turn out in huge numbers, when the outcome is not close, when state and local officials and the courts adhere to the rule of law, when foreign interference is thwarted, when the media behaves responsibly and when people remain peaceful — can our democracy endure its greatest tests.

Mr. Trump will leave office on Jan. 20, whether he acknowledges defeat or not. Yet, if his Republican enablers in Congress retain a Senate majority, they will not hesitate to reprise the politics of power at any cost, even by again subverting the democratic process.

So, bolstering our democracy depends in large part on the people of Georgia voting out their incumbent senators on Jan. 5. If the Senate flips to Democratic control, Congress will be able to apply the lessons of our democracy’s near-death experience.

It would enact the For the People Act to combat corruption, strengthen ethics rules and improve voter access as well as the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to restore the protections of the 1965 legislation. Congress would pass the Protecting Our Democracy Act to constrain the power of future presidents who deem themselves above the law and finally adopt long-stalled legislation to shore up our election infrastructure against adversaries, foreign or domestic.

Now is no time for self-congratulation or complacency. We must act with the unique urgency and courage of those who know they are living on borrowed time.





No.15 article:
Betty Jones, Founding Member of Limón Troupe, Dies at 94

She created the Desdemona role in José Limón’s best-known dance, “The Moor’s Pavane,” and became a respected teacher.

Betty Jones, a dancer known for memorable performances as an original member of José Limón’s famed company and later a respected dance teacher, died on Nov. 17 at her home in Honolulu. She was 94.

Her husband, Fritz Ludin, announced her death.

Ms. Jones was 23 and relatively new to modern dance, in August 1949, when she originated the role of the Desdemona character, known as the Moor’s Wife, in Mr. Limón’s take on “Othello,” which he called “The Moor’s Pavane.” The work, using only four dancers, caused a sensation when it premiered at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn. John Martin, writing in The New York Times, called it “a completely stunning work.”

Ms. Jones, he wrote, “is an incredibly lovely Desdemona,” dancing opposite Mr. Limón as the Moor, the Othello character. The piece, Mr. Limón’s best-known work, became a staple for the young company, and Ms. Jones performed it all over the world.

As a teacher at the Juilliard School and, for 40 years, at the American Dance Festival (which relocated to North Carolina in 1978), Ms. Jones imparted the techniques developed by Mr. Limón — who thought of the body as an orchestra and emphasized movement of its individual parts to create a harmonious whole — and enhanced them with her own.

“You just don’t imitate movement,” she told The Herald-Sun of Durham, N.C., in 2000, speaking of any dancer who might seek to recreate her “Pavane” performance. “It needs to come from inside. The human element. You understand what the body is saying when you’re doing it.”

Betty May Jones was born on June 11, 1926, in Meadville, Pa. Her father, Dr. Hiram A. Jones, was director of health and physical education for the New York Department of Education. Her her mother, Elizabeth (Smith) Jones, managed food service at the Jacob’s Pillow dance center in the Berkshires of Massachusetts in the 1940s and was later booking manager for Dances We Dance, a company that Ms. Jones and Mr. Ludin founded in 1964.

Ms. Jones grew up in Delmar, N.Y., near Albany, and after graduating from high school studied dance in Albany and then, beginning in 1941, at Jacob’s Pillow, where she appeared in several ballets. Near the end of World War II she danced with a United Service Organizations production of “Oklahoma!,” performing for troops in New Guinea, the Philippines and elsewhere.

In 1946, when Mr. Limón first approached her about joining the dance troupe he was forming, she had been thinking of a career more in keeping with her “Oklahoma!” experience.

“I had planned to get a night job in a show and go to Columbia University,” she told Américas magazine, a publication of the Organization of American States, in 1997. “Anyway, I said that I wasn’t interested, and in the fall I got into ‘Bloomer Girl,’ with choreography by Agnes de Mille.” That musical had made Broadway in 1944 and was touring, but Ms. Jones soon found that the road-musical life “wasn’t interesting to me at all.”

“So I went back and studied with José,” she said.

Mr. Limón’s fledgling company began drawing notice in 1947. Then, two years later, he created “The Moor’s Pavane.”

Mr. Limón, who died in 1972, was often said to have created the role of the Moor’s Wife for Ms. Jones. She wasn’t so sure.

“He had had several kind of false starts with different people,” she told Américas, “and I think perhaps he got the idea that I inspired the Desdemona role after he saw me do it. Eventually, José said, ‘I did Desdemona for you’ and that it was my dance. But that was news to me, and it certainly wasn’t my dance when he started.”

In any case, the work became an enduring part of American dance history, performed not only by Mr. Limón’s company but also by many others. Ms. Jones also originated roles in other important Limón works, including “There Is a Time” (1956) and “Missa Brevis” (1958).

She danced with Mr. Limón’s company into the late 1960s. In 1964, for a performance at the American Dance Festival, Mr. Limón paid her an unusual compliment, or so a review by Allen Hughes in The Times made it seem.

“Because Mr. Limón was suffering from a knee ailment, his solos were danced by Betty Jones,” Mr. Hughes wrote. “She did them very well, but it was rather strange to see a woman do movements Mr. Limón has previously reserved for himself.”

After forming Dances We Dance, Ms. Jones and Mr. Ludin, a fellow Limón dancer, toured extensively under the dance touring program of the National Endowment for the Arts. The couple, who married in 1979, settled in Hawaii and created the Jones-Ludin Dance Center, a presenting organization.

Mr. Ludin is Ms. Jones’s only immediate survivor.

Of the many times Ms. Jones performed “Pavane,” she told Américas, one in particular stuck in her mind. It was in Paris in 1960.

“Coincidentally, the Comédie-Française was doing ‘Othello,’” she recalled, “and when the actors came to see us, they said, ‘You were able to say in 20 minutes what we say in three hours and a half.’”





No.16 article:
Salesforce to Acquire Slack for $27.7 Billion

The move caps an acquisitive streak by Salesforce and ends Slack’s run as an independent publicly traded company.

SAN FRANCISCO — Salesforce said on Tuesday that it would buy the workplace software company Slack for $27.7 billion in cash and stock, the latest in a wave of deals as the coronavirus pandemic boosts demand for tools that enable people to work remotely.

If completed, the acquisition will end Slack’s brief run as an independent publicly traded company — it went public in mid-2019 — and cap an acquisitive streak by Salesforce with its largest deal since it was founded 21 years ago.

The deal is the biggest bet among a recent spate of acquisitions made by tech companies to capitalize on the shift to remote work. Adobe said last month that it planned to acquire the work force management software company Workfront for $1.5 billion. In July, Atlassian, which sells tools for developers and project management, said it would buy the enterprise services business Mindville for an undisclosed amount.

Other firms focused on workplace collaboration products, including Airtable, Asana, Box, DocuSign, Dropbox and Smartsheet, may also be potential targets as highly valued software companies look to roll up the fragmented market for collaboration tools.

The Salesforce deal for Slack shows how competitive the software market has become, said Logan Purk, a senior analyst with financial advisory firm Edward Jones. Without a “game-changing product” and a lot of capital, he said, “you’re going to get swallowed up or you’re going to fail.”

Shareholders will get $26.79 in cash and 0.0776 shares of Salesforce stock in exchange for each share of Slack, according to Tuesday’s deal announcement. Salesforce said it planned to incorporate Slack’s communication software into every aspect of its cloud software offerings.

Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce, was effusive about the combination, calling it “a match made in heaven.” In a conference call, he said that Stewart Butterfield, Slack’s chief executive, and Bret Taylor, Salesforce’s president, had presented him with the deal.

Slack’s trajectory reminded him of Salesforce’s, Mr. Benioff said, and he marveled at the possibilities of combining the two companies’ data and tools. “My eyes lit up,” he said. “This is our ultimate vision.”

Mr. Taylor said the pandemic had fundamentally shifted consumer behavior and the way people work. Buying Slack would help Salesforce’s customers make the digital transformation, he said. Roughly 90 percent of Slack’s enterprise customers also use Salesforce.

Mr. Butterfield will continue leading Slack, which will become an operating unit of Salesforce.

Slack, which was founded in 2010 by Mr. Butterfield, grew quickly and previously attracted — and rejected — takeover offers from the likes of Google, Microsoft and Amazon. Its valuation was about $19.5 billion when it went public last year, but its shares later sank.

Demand for Slack’s products, which allow people to communicate and collaborate with one another, has increased as people work from home during the pandemic. While the company said in September that revenue rose 49 percent to $216 million in the three months ending in July and that the pandemic had created a “significant increase in demand and usage of Slack,” it also said it did not expect that rise to continue. Layoffs at some of its customers have hurt its business, the company said.

On Tuesday, Slack reported that revenue grew 39 percent in the three months ending with October.

At the same time, Slack has faced increasing competitive pressure from Microsoft. Teams, Microsoft’s collaboration product, reported 115 million daily users in October, up 50 percent from April. Slack has not provided an update on the 12 million daily users it reported a year ago.

In July, Slack filed a complaint against Microsoft with the European Commission, claiming Microsoft had unfairly bundled Teams with its suite of Microsoft Office work products. Microsoft has offered the software alongside Office since Teams was released in 2017.

“When you’re a scrappy start-up going against an 800-pound gorilla that’s one of the most well-capitalized companies in existence, it’s tough to compete,” Mr. Purk said of Slack. “This is more or less saying: ‘We can’t compete with Microsoft Teams anymore. We need more firepower.’”

This year, Slack’s shares were up roughly 25 percent, though they remained below the level of the company’s public market debut, before news of a deal with Salesforce broke last week. Since the news, Slack’s value has risen to more than $25 billion.

Salesforce, which provides marketing and sales software, among other products, has been highly acquisitive as it looks to grow. Under Mr. Benioff, Salesforce has bought at least 60 companies, including 27 in the last five years, according to S&amp;P Capital IQ.

Salesforce stock has climbed nearly 40 percent this year, valuing the company at $220 billion. On Tuesday, it said its revenue rose 20 percent to $5.24 billion in the three months ending with October.

In February, Salesforce paid $1.3 billion for Vlocity, a mobile software provider. Last year, it bought Tableau, a data analytics provider, for $15.3 billion; in 2018, it bought MuleSoft, a data integration company, for $6.5 billion; and in 2016, it bought Demandware, an e-commerce software maker, for $2.8 billion. It also invested $250 million in the data warehousing company Snowflake just before it went public in September.

Salesforce has had its own work collaboration product, called Chatter, since 2010. Chatter has had “limited traction,” according to a Goldman Sachs report last week that touted the “strategic merit” of Salesforce buying Slack.

In August, Mr. Benioff told analysts that Salesforce was not seeking acquisitions, implying that valuations were too high. “We’re not in a good M&amp;A environment,” he said, referring to mergers and acquisitions. “I just don’t see it.”

He added: “Maybe things could change.&quot;

In September, Mark Hawkins, Salesforce’s chief financial officer, told analysts that the company would continue to be “opportunistic” with respect to deals.

On Tuesday, Mr. Butterfield tweeted that Slack would remain “an independent and open platform” and said its mission had not changed.

Bank of America served as financial adviser to Salesforce, while Qatalyst Partners and Goldman Sachs advised Slack.





No.17 article:
Republican Resistance to Tanden Illustrates Trouble Ahead for Biden

The swift and bitter pushback to President-elect Joe Biden’s choice to lead his budget office left some wondering if the incoming administration recognizes the depth of polarization it is confronting on Capitol Hill.

WASHINGTON — The fierce and pre-emptive Republican pushback against President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s choice of Neera Tanden this week to head the White House budget office underscored the difficulties the incoming administration will face in maneuvering its nominees through a polarized Senate.

In the 11 years since Mr. Biden served in the chamber, partisanship has intensified, and nominations — once an area dominated by courtesy, comity and a presumption of accommodation — have become just another brutal battlefield.

Republicans will not be eager to accede to Mr. Biden’s choices if they can find reason for opposition. And disparaging comments about Republicans on Twitter from Ms. Tanden, a longtime Democratic policy adviser and head of a liberal think tank, were enough for many Republicans to threaten the nomination well before it was made official on Tuesday.

“Trumpism has infected the entire Republican caucus,” said James P. Manley, a former longtime top Senate Democratic aide, who urged the incoming administration to brace for intense opposition from Republicans led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. “I am not sure everyone has figured out yet what is going on here, but I hope they will soon, and prepare for what is coming.”

Should Democrats win two Senate seats in runoff elections to be held on Jan. 5 in Georgia, the party would control the agenda and make approval of Mr. Biden’s nominees much easier. But if Democrats fail, Republicans will have the power to decide the fate of Mr. Biden’s executive and judicial branch picks.

The reality of a Democratic White House and a Republican Senate will take some adjusting to on Capitol Hill after four years of Republicans working hand-in-hand with President Trump on nominations.

Republicans said they were stunned by the selection of Ms. Tanden, whom many knew mainly as a hostile social media presence, to head the Office of Management and Budget. Even though many Republicans have refused to recognize Mr. Biden as the winner of the election, they said they were surprised that his team had not checked in with them on how they might react to her nomination to an agency that lawmakers in both parties see as critical when it comes to advancing congressional priorities.

“That was just an unforced error,” Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on Tuesday. He said that moving forward in future cases without weighing Republican sentiment was “a roll of the dice” that could cause unnecessary embarrassment to a nominee or to Mr. Biden’s White House.

Initially, Republicans — who had refused to hold hearings for President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee in 2016 — suggested that they might not even take up Ms. Tanden’s nomination were it sent to the Senate. But Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who is poised to be the top Republican on one of the two committees that would oversee hearings for Ms. Tanden, said he believed she should receive one even if he was skeptical about her chances of confirmation.

“That’s our responsibility,” said Mr. Portman, who oversaw the budget office under President George W. Bush. “But it doesn’t mean she’ll get the votes.”

The handling of the announcement of Ms. Tanden’s nomination left some in both parties wondering whether Mr. Biden’s team was misreading the environment on Capitol Hill, where voting against an administration’s nominees has become essentially the default position for senators in the party out of power in recent years.

But people close to the transition team said opposition to Ms. Tanden’s nomination from some Republicans was no surprise to the president-elect or his team, nor was it evidence that Mr. Biden, who served almost four decades in the Senate, was naïve about what it would take to win confirmation of his choices. One person familiar with the deliberations said they expected as much from Republicans already angling to run for president in four years.

Advisers said Mr. Biden was cleareyed about the need to use some of his political capital to fight for Ms. Tanden’s nomination, citing her years of policymaking experience and a compelling personal story as reasons to fight to get her confirmed.

They noted that the reaction from Republicans to Mr. Biden’s other nominees has been more muted, with some Republicans suggesting they would be willing to give the president-elect deference in terms of who he wants in his cabinet. One person close to the nomination process said that Mr. Biden and his team had, in fact, been reaching out to Republican lawmakers in recent weeks.

Transition officials said the crisis situation in the nation makes quick confirmation imperative.

“The country is facing multiple crises, from a pandemic that is killing over 10,000 Americans a week to a recession that is continuing to push thousands out of the work force,” said Andrew Bates, a transition spokesman. “The American people cannot afford partisan obstruction of qualified and experienced women who are nominees.”

Democrats scoffed at the criticisms surrounding Ms. Tanden’s selection, particularly over her Twitter feed — given that most Senate Republicans have diligently spent four years evading queries about the array of policy announcements, racist commentary and inflammatory attacks on their own colleagues from Mr. Trump on Twitter.

“After spending four years pretending that they didn’t see the latest insane tweet from President Trump, Senate Republicans seem to have found a newfound interest in the Twitter feeds of President-elect Biden’s cabinet selection,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said on the Senate floor. “A few critical tweets about substantive policy positions have caused Senate Republicans to label Ms. Tanden’s nomination ‘radioactive.’ Spare us the hyperbole.”

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, said he believed that Mr. Biden and his team should reach out to Capitol Hill about the looming nominations. He added that he had been in touch with some of the intended nominees about scheduling private, one-on-one meetings. (On Tuesday, Mr. Schumer’s office circulated photographs of him in a video conference with Mr. Biden’s choices for secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, and director of national intelligence, Avril D. Haines.)

“That’s probably the most important first thing because there’s nothing like making your case for yourself,” Mr. Kaine said. “Four years ago, President Trump put some nominees up — if they said things in tweets or whatever that we didn’t like, we’d ask them tough questions about that, so she will expect the same.”

Democrats also said they were astounded by calls from Republicans for extensive disclosures of business dealings from Mr. Biden’s potential picks after the record compiled by Mr. Trump.

“This is just stunning, even by the double standards of Washington,” said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who labeled the Trump administration “the Babe Ruth of darkness.”

“The Trump administration has stonewalled on so many things — starting with the president’s taxes — and then they come in and the first thing they’re doing is saying, ‘Oh, my goodness, there’s no transparency in the Biden administration,’” he added.

Mr. Manley, the former Senate aide, urged Democrats to stand behind the new administration’s nominees or face an onslaught of obstruction from emboldened Republicans.

“If Republicans have objections to her policy views, they should give her a hearing and grill her,” he said. “But the idea that they are prepared to block her nomination because she was mean to them on Twitter is ridiculous, and no Democrat should fall for it.”





No.18 article:
Hugh Grant and David E. Kelley Discuss the ‘Undoing’ Finale

Kelley, who created the murder mystery, and the star Grant also tie up some loose ends.

This interview includes spoilers for Sunday’s finale of “The Undoing.”

Sunday night’s finale of HBO’s “The Undoing” finally wrapped up its modest mystery (Who murdered Elena Alves?), tickled us one last time with Nicole Kidman’s fab winter coats and seized the attention of the internet. (“Based on Twitter I’ve deduced that a fancy coat played by Hugh Grant killed a baby,” one writer quipped on Twitter.)

Grant himself planned to avoid social media after the show’s conclusion, he said on Monday morning, “but then I took a quick look and two hours later, I’m still scrolling.”

“There are plenty of people who are telling me how old I look, and they’re not wrong,” he added. “But the fact that they liked the finale is huge.”

If “Undoing” didn’t quite reach the “Who Shot J.R.?” or “Who killed Laura Palmer?” level of fevered fascination, the six-week limited series did qualify as event television in the pandemic era, something to obsess about while the world was on pause. Socially-distanced viewers with time to kill gathered around the social media water cooler to lust after the resplendent clothes and spin increasingly implausible theories.

Grant’s Dr. Jonathan Fraser was the main suspect, but was that too easy an answer? What about the son, Henry (Noah Jupe)? Or the father, Franklin (Donald Sutherland)? Not even the police detective (Edgar Ramírez) was completely above suspicion. Celebrity fans like Kerry Washington, Ava DuVernay, Kourtney Kardashian and Carole Radziwill joined the de facto national jury, while Kidman and Ramírez encouraged guesswork.

But after a red herring buffet, the final twist served up the person originally positioned as the obvious suspect; Jonathan Fraser turned out to be — yes — a killer. Jonathan murdered his mistress, Elena, partly because she wanted to befriend his wife, Grace (Kidman), and partly because he was just a narcissistic sociopath who happened to have a sculpting hammer at hand. Could it really be that simple?

“One of our goals was to have the audience experience him as Grace did,” the showrunner David E. Kelley said. “Our starting point was to give you the truth of Jonathan, and then dare you to discard that truth along the way.”

The timing of the show, he added, fits the national mood. “The ferocity and the willingness of people to believe in a narrative when the facts are telling you otherwise?” Kelley said. “We’re all a little too familiar with that.”

In separate phone interviews, Grant (from England) and Kelley (from California) discussed how they shaped the finale, including the pivotal murder scene flashback. These are edited excerpts from the conversations.

Part of the show plays with our longtime perception of Hugh Grant and what we might think of as typical Hugh Grant roles. “The Undoing” weaponizes that charm against us.

HUGH GRANT Honestly, I wanted to get away from those characters. I’m more comfortable if I’m playing a character that’s far away from me than some version of myself. This was subject to some debate because I could tell that [the director Susanne Bier] wanted me to do just what you said and bring some of the old Hugh to this. I think that was quite clever of her. She thought: “What fun to have this guy. People will say, ‘Not the guy from “Notting Hill”! Not the guy from “Love Actually”! He can’t swing a hammer 14 times into someone’s face.’”

DAVID E. KELLEY We put this wonderful, charming man in front of you, and the show pointed to him, and it’s a testament to Hugh’s ability and Susanne Bier’s direction that the audience held tight to the “what if?” of it all: “Maybe he’s innocent.”

GRANT I think Jonathan is one of those narcissists who simply cannot believe that anything negative can happen to them. It cannot have happened because bad things do not happen to the great Jonathan Fraser. I mean, some might say Trump knows intellectually that he lost the election, but when he’s arguing that it was fixed, he believes every word of it. That was the fun of the character.

I read up on the differences between a narcissistic personality disorder, psychopaths, and sociopaths, and I can’t even remember the differences now. You can get your head quite scrambled by all that stuff, and you’ve got five and a half episodes of trying not to give the game away. You can’t do some flicker of quiet anxiety across his face. In the margins of my script, I referred to him as two characters. One I called J.B., which was John Boy, which is the name I made up for this spoiled man, and then there was I.J., Innocent Jonathan, which was an act.

Jonathan’s mask falls when his wife testifies against him, in an interesting twist to get around spousal privilege.

KELLEY We wanted the audience to believe that when Grace took the stand, she could still be corrupted by her own biases. Part of the title of “The Undoing” refers to the undoing of her marriage, her family and her life, but ultimately it also refers to her salvation. Her husband’s attorney had put on a masterful defense, and she was going to orchestrate the undoing of that defense. There is no rule that wives and husbands can’t testify against each other, but spousal privilege can be waived if the defense calls her to the stand. And nothing she testified went to privileged communications. We wanted to be accurate, to be able to justify the mechanics, but we were not intent on explaining them all.

Do you see the show as commentary about how the wealthy navigate the legal system?

KELLEY We really did want to suggest the power that goes with Franklin’s influence. Power and money accomplish results that are not available to ordinary people. And that did offer us a nice helicopter scene!

Were any lines ad-libbed in the finale?

GRANT When I make Henry sing, that was a song that my family used to sing in the car on holidays by the seaside. Effectively, that is an improvisation.

Not the strange bit about clams?

GRANT Clams is very David E. Kelley. There is a fish theme running through all his series. He lives somewhere in Northern California with Michelle Pfeiffer and spends all day out on a boat catching and stroking and loving fish. I occasionally would email David about lines, but he’s never in the office. He was always out fishing, and he had to confess to his fish habit.

KELLEY Is Hugh suggesting I was playing hooky from my job? [Laughs.] I wouldn’t say I have a fish theme! Fishing just comes up but not in any overriding thematic way. It’s probably unconscious wishful thinking on my part that sometimes when I’m at my desk, I secretly wish I were on a riverbank.

How did the murder, finally revealed in flashback, change in the telling?

GRANT It was kind of ambiguous at first.

KELLEY From the original concept, Jonathan was always guilty. That didn’t change. But the severity of culpability did. Originally, Jonathan snapped — one swing and suddenly she was dead. And Hugh really did not want it to be gray. He wanted Jonathan to be a monster. I looked him in the eye and I said: “Really? Because we can go down that route.” Most actors want to push you the other way: “I’m willing to behead seven people, but can I at least be sympathetic?” Hugh had no such compunction. He really wanted to go for it. He urged us to make him a monster.

GRANT It’s more fun if he’s definitely a killer. And then Susanne Bier wanted to flesh out the murder scene. That was never in the script. When we cut away to the actual killing, that was something she and I put together because David was off fishing.

KELLEY The murder itself was always part of the architecture. It was scripted, but it was not scripted with a huge amount of detail. That was for Susanne and Hugh to figure out. It can be folly to marry yourself to the scripted words because this is such a heated moment.

GRANT I can’t stress enough, this is David’s script. I’m just throwing a few currants on top. We had a long exchange of emails, and then we had to make Matilda [the actress Matilda De Angelis, who plays Elena] comfortable with the rubbish I’d written. We were just trying to find out what tipped Jonathan over the edge. We came up with a thing where she says that Henry and Miguel could be friends, she and Grace could be friends, they could all meet up and have hot chocolate or something. And that’s what caused Jonathan to snap, like a dog in a car when someone approaches. I wrote in my notes that it wasn’t his first violent episode. There had been a couple that had been hushed up, I think.

We went into a rehearsal room with a hammer, and we just experimented. It could not have been more awkward because it was the first week of shooting, and this poor actress, the first thing she has to do in America is kiss an old man and then be beaten to death: “Kiss me. Smash me on the head with a mallet.” I felt really bad for her. And I just didn’t know how the car ride with my son intercut with brutal sex and murder would go down. It was nail-biting!

Let’s address a few loose ends. What did Jonathan do with the $500,000 loan? A small chunk was used to pay for Miguel’s tuition, but what about the rest?

GRANT I think he might have been in quite a lot of debt. I wonder if Fernando [Ismael Cruz Córdova], once he found out that I was having an affair with his wife and that the baby was mine, if the loan was used as hush money.

Jonathan’s a doctor, yet he never seems to use condoms. Shouldn’t he know better?

KELLEY I don’t know! [Laughs]

GRANT I asked myself that question, too. Why do Grace and I have only Henry? I wondered if there had been a problem. And I think in one draft of the script, there was a mention of some drug that helps you conceive, and you’d see it in the medicine cabinet. One of the appeals of Elena was that she was sort of fecund in a way that maybe Grace wasn’t.

Why didn’t Jonathan dispose of the murder weapon in a body of water? Why leave it on his family’s property?

GRANT Do you remember a moment on the beach when Grace looks up, and she sees a figure in the distance? I told myself that she’d seen Jonathan, and so he quickly got rid of the hammer in the fireplace instead of doing something better with it. What a moron.





No.19 article:
Bixi, From the Lido Team, Opens in Harlem

A brasserie-style destination in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a takeout-and-delivery-only outpost of Nice Day, and more restaurant news.

Serena Bass, the caterer and chef who, for many years, has turned out the food of Italy at Lido, a brick-walled corner spot in Harlem, now looks to Asia with Bixi. It’s her newest venture with Susannah Koteen, who is an owner of both restaurants, and it’s a few doors south of Lido, making it an easy commute. Ms. Bass, who will continue to oversee both kitchens as executive chef, is working with the chef de cuisine, Franco Ayala, to offer pan-Asian plates like Japanese yam tempura, short rib fried dumplings with scallions, tandoori chicken (or tofu for vegetarians), pork belly banh mi, five-spice baby back ribs and, for dessert, tempura bananas. She is also responsible for the restaurant’s stunning décor, with a room done in deep coral and accented with teal velvet. Socially distant seating is limited to about 12 for now, with another 10 or so outdoors. There will be a backyard garden in the spring. 

This brasserie-style restaurant in a repurposed limestone bank building is serving a menu that leans toward luxury with lobster ravioli, dry-aged crown of duck for two, and côte de boeuf, also for two. Less imposing are prawns with sauce gribiche, and heritage pork with cabbage and cherry peppers. The space, with an open kitchen, is designed by Glen Coben, and the chef Christopher Cipollone, formerly of Piora in the West Village, is in partnership with John Winterman, formerly of Bâtard. Unlike many of the restaurants opening these days, which prefer to be considered neighborhood spots, this one is not shy about wanting to be a destination. (Opening by Friday)

This is a second pivot for Junzi Kitchen, after its successful start with Nice Day, an American-Chinese concept in Greenwich Village. In the Bryant Park location where Junzi Kitchen has an experimental lab, this branch of Nice Day will serve only takeout and delivery, no on-premises service. 

This Israeli restaurant group has opened another outlet for its mostly Israeli-style fare. It replaces Belcampo, a restaurant and butcher in the Hudson Yards building that is dedicated to shopping and dining. 

This chef and restaurateur will be conducting an online class on latkes on the eve of Hanukkah. It will be on 100 Pleats, a virtual cooking platform that he helped start that offers lessons from many well-known chefs. Each class includes an advance list of ingredients and equipment so students can be prepared to follow along. 

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.20 article:
Quotation of the Day: Biden Urges a ‘Robust’ Stimulus as Risks Mount

“The risk of overdoing it is less than the risk of underdoing it.”

Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, telling the Senate Banking Committee that the pace of economic improvement has moderated and calling for action to help blunt the impact of the pandemic.





No.21 article:
Surging Virus Exposes California’s Weak Spot: A Lack of Hospital Beds and Staff

Many of the state’s hospitals have maintained lower numbers of beds in part to limit the length of patient stays and lower costs. But that approach is now being tested.

SAN FRANCISCO — For all its size and economic might, California has long had few hospital beds relative to its population, a shortfall that state officials now say may prove catastrophic.

California is experiencing its largest surge in coronavirus cases with an average of nearly 15,000 new cases a day, an increase of 50 percent from the previous record over the summer.

So even though the state has some of the country’s most restrictive measures to prevent the spread of the virus, an influx of people with severe cases of Covid-19 may force overwhelmed hospitals to turn patients away by Christmas, Gov. Gavin Newsom warned this week.

[Sign up for California Today, our daily newsletter from the Golden State.]

A dearth of hospital beds has been a worldwide problem throughout the pandemic, but California, with a population of 40 million, has a particularly acute shortage. The wealthiest state in the wealthiest country has 1.8 hospital beds per 1,000 people, a level that exceeds only two states, Washington and Oregon, according to 2018 data compiled by the Kaiser Family Foundation. California has one-third the number of beds per capita as Poland.

Many hospitals in California have maintained lower numbers of beds in part to limit the length of patient stays and lower costs. But that approach is now being tested.

In addition to beds, a shortage of nursing staff will make handling the surge of virus cases “extraordinarily difficult for us in California,” said Carmela Coyle, the head of the California Hospital Association, which represents 400 hospitals across the state.

“This pandemic is a story of shortage, whether it is shortages of personal protective equipment, shortages of testing supplies, shortages of the trained staff needed to deal with these patients,” Ms. Coyle said. “It’s what has made this pandemic unique and different from other disasters.”

Also unlike other catastrophes, California will not be able to rely on other states for assistance. Mutual aid has been a cornerstone in its planning for disasters, requesting, for example, thousands of firefighters from neighboring states to help in dousing the mega-fires of recent years.

But with so many parts of the country struggling with the coronavirus at the same time, there are few traveling nurses available or nearby hospital beds to spare.

“You have to think of this as a natural disaster, like an earthquake — there’s a lot of need for hospitalization,” said Dr. George Rutherford, a professor of epidemiology at the University of California, San Francisco. “But the difference here is that it’s happening across the country. We can’t send people to Reno, Phoenix or Tucson. We’re stuck.”

The state government says it has 11 surge facilities, or alternative setups, including mothballed medical buildings and at least one sports arena, ready if hospitals become overloaded.

Beyond California, hospitals have been scrambling in recent weeks to handle a new rush of patients, particularly in parts of the Sun Belt and New England that had largely avoided coronavirus spikes in the spring and summer. The country is likely to hit a record 100,000 hospitalizations this week.

As hospitals exceed or get close to exceeding their capacity for coronavirus patients, state and local officials have been opening hospitals in parking lots or unoccupied buildings.

In Rhode Island, where infections have rapidly increased in recent weeks, a field hospital opened on Monday in the state’s second-largest city, Cranston. At a cost of $8 million, a former call center for Citizens Bank was converted into a 335-bed field hospital. In New Mexico, a vacant medical center in Albuquerque was being used for recovering coronavirus patients. “We are seeing the worst rates that we’ve seen since the pandemic hit,” Mayor Tim Keller said in a recent interview.

Nancy Foster, the American Hospital Association’s vice president for quality and patient safety policy, said hospital systems that are busy during the pandemic have not yet fully examined how they could have been better prepared. But she said the lack of hospital beds in many states reflected pre-Covid times.

“In an era when you’re focused on reducing the cost of health care, having excess capacity — that you’re heating and lighting and cleaning and all of that stuff — is just antithetical to your efforts to be as lean as possible, to be as cost-efficient as possible,” Ms. Foster said. “So we’re going to have some critical thinking around what’s that right balance between keeping costs low and being prepared in case a disaster happens.”

The number of hospital beds in California has declined over time partly because of a trend toward more outpatient care, said Kristof Stremikis, an expert on the state’s hospital system at the California Health Care Foundation. But more acute than the shortage of beds, Mr. Stremikis says, are staffing shortages, especially in regions with high concentrations of Black, Latino and Native American patients.

“The system is blinking red when it comes to the work force,” Mr. Stremikis said. “It’s nurses, doctors, allied health professionals — we don’t have enough of many different types of clinicians in California and they’re not in the right places. It’s a huge issue.”

Mr. Newsom has said California would draw from a registry of retired or nonpracticing health care workers and deploy them to hospitals.

But Ms. Coyle, the head of the California Hospital Association, says she does not think volunteers can bridge the gap.

“We are down to a very, very small fraction who are willing to serve,” she said. “Those volunteers were not trained at a level to be as helpful in a hospital setting.”

At the county level, health officers are counting down the days until their hospitals are full. On Sunday, California became the first state to record more than 100,000 cases in a week, according to a New York Times database. The state government estimates that about 12 percent of cases end up in a hospital.

Dr. Sara Cody, the chief health officer for Santa Clara County, which includes a large slice of Silicon Valley, projects that hospitals in the county will reach capacity by mid-December.

“This is the most difficult phase of the pandemic so far,” Dr. Cody said. “Everyone is tired.”

She is expecting a spike in cases from Thanksgiving gatherings, which could accelerate the timeline, she said.

Few states have been as aggressive in combating the pandemic as California, which now has a stockpile of a half-billion face masks. Los Angeles last week announced a ban on gatherings with other households. In Santa Clara County, hotels are now only reserved for essential travel and a ban on contact sports is forcing the San Francisco 49ers to play home games in Arizona.

“We have done everything that we can do as local leaders and health officials,” said Dr. Cody, who led the effort in March to put in place the country’s first shelter-in-place order. “We have worked as hard as we can work. We have tried everything that we know how to do. But without bold action at the state or federal level we are not going to be able to slow this down. We are not an island.”

Across California a weary populace wondered about the effectiveness of the state’s measures.

In Los Angeles, local officials were under fire after hundreds of tests scheduled for Tuesday at Union Station were canceled because of a film shoot, a remake of the 1990s romantic comedy “She’s All That.” People who had scheduled tests were informed of the cancellation on Monday afternoon, and it was not until after midnight that Mayor Eric Garcetti announced the tests were back on.

The filming was still taking place on Tuesday morning as Wendy Ambriz swabbed her mouth at the station’s testing kiosk.

Ms. Ambriz did not think the county’s restriction of outdoor dining, which went into effect last week, was necessary, noting that kitchen staffs are fastidious about cleanliness. But she did not blame government officials for the coronavirus spiraling out of control in Southern California.

“People don’t really follow directions,” she said.

That assessment appears to hold true for some of the state’s officials.

Sheila Kuehl, who sits on the county board of supervisors, was spotted at an Italian restaurant in Santa Monica hours after publicly calling outdoor dining “a most dangerous situation” and voting to ban it. In a statement on Monday, Ms. Kuehl’s office noted that the ban had not yet gone into effect when the dinner occurred. Her meal recalled another moment of apparent hypocrisy, a meal attended by Mr. Newsom and a gaggle of lobbyists at the luxurious French Laundry restaurant in Napa Valley just as the governor was advising residents to avoid meeting with large groups.

Outside the Broad Street Oyster Company in Malibu last week, picnic tables were cordoned off and the restaurant was not seating customers. But that did not stop people from eating there — they just ducked under the tape.





No.22 article:
‘It Has to Stop’: Georgia Election Official Lashes Trump

Gabriel Sterling, a voting system official in Georgia, harshly criticized the president for failing to condemn threats of violence against people overseeing the election in his state.

ATLANTA — In one of the most striking rebukes to President Trump since he launched his baseless attacks on the American electoral process, a top-ranking Georgia election official lashed out at the president on Tuesday for failing to condemn threats of violence against people overseeing the voting system in his state.

“It has to stop,” Gabriel Sterling, a Republican and Georgia’s voting system implementation manager, said at an afternoon news conference at the state Capitol, his voice shaking with emotion. “Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions or this language.”

He added: “This is elections. This is the backbone of democracy, and all of you who have not said a damn word are complicit in this. It’s too much.”

Mr. Sterling’s outburst of anger and frustration came amid a sustained assault on Georgia’s election process by Mr. Trump as he seeks to reverse his loss to his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mr. Sterling, who previously said he had received threats himself, said that threats had also been made against the wife of his superior, Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state.

“Mr. President, it looks like you likely lost the state of Georgia,” Mr. Sterling said. He added that the president needed to “step up” and say, “Stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence. Someone is going to get hurt, someone is going to get shot, someone is going to get killed. And it’s not right.”

Mr. Sterling also called on the state’s two Republican senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, to condemn the rhetoric that he said was getting dangerously out of hand. The two senators, both Trump loyalists, have called for Mr. Raffensperger to resign.

As Mr. Trump hurls false claims of fraud in Georgia, a number of lawsuits filed by conservatives in state and federal courts are seeking to decertify the results. The second of two recounts requested by the Trump campaign is in progress and is expected to wind up Wednesday. And the Georgia Republican Party has descended into a state of virtual civil war as some of its most powerful players maneuver and malign their rivals, seeking advantage, or at least survival.

In the meantime, Mr. Trump continues to lash out at Gov. Brian Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger, both staunch Republicans and Trump supporters, over the fact that he lost Georgia, saying they have not sufficiently rooted out fraud.

As late as Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump made the latest in a series of unsubstantiated claims about the Georgia election, writing on Twitter that the state had been “scammed” and urging Mr. Kemp to “call off&quot; the election.

Some of Mr. Trump’s supporters have taken to the streets and the Capitol building in downtown Atlanta, where the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones of Infowars recently joined them. In other cases, Trump supporters have harassed or threatened Mr. Sterling, Mr. Raffensperger and others.

In a statement Tuesday evening, Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, said: “The campaign is focused on ensuring that all legal votes are counted and all illegal votes are not. No one should engage in threats or violence, and if that has happened, we condemn that fully.”

Amid all of this, Mr. Sterling, a detail-oriented former city councilman from the Atlanta suburb of Sandy Springs, has taken on a prominent role in the state as it conducted its recounts. Along with Mr. Raffensperger, he has often been the main speaker in numerous news conferences in which he has explained the complexities of Georgia’s election and recount systems and has argued that the results, which currently show Mr. Biden winning by about 12,700 votes, are trustworthy.

Ari Schaffer, press secretary for the secretary of state’s office, did not answer directly when asked Tuesday whether Mr. Raffensperger had given Mr. Sterling his blessing to speak out so forcefully against the president. But he noted that the deputy secretary of state, Jordan Fuchs, had been standing near Mr. Sterling when he made his statements.

“Gabriel has my support,” Ms. Fuchs said independently in a text message.

Late Tuesday, representatives for Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue said they condemned violence of any kind but also said they would not apologize for seeking accountability and accuracy in the state’s elections. 

In the second of two news conferences called by the secretary of state’s office on Tuesday, Mr. Sterling, speaking loudly, emotionally and deliberately, said that people had intruded on Mr. Raffensperger’s personal property. He said that Mr. Raffensperger’s wife “is getting sexualized threats through her cellphone.” He mentioned that he had police protection outside his own house, a topic he had also broached in a Nov. 21 tweet.

“So this is fun … multiple attempted hacks of my emails, police protection around my home, the threats,” Mr. Sterling wrote then. “But all is well … following the law, following the process … doing our jobs.”

On Tuesday, Mr. Sterling also made references to reports that Joe diGenova, a lawyer for the Trump campaign, had said that Chris Krebs — a former federal cybersecurity official who vouched that the election was clean — should be shot. (Mr. diGenova later said his remarks had been “made in jest.”)

But Mr. Sterling said that “the straw that broke the camel’s back” had involved a threat against a 20-year-old contractor for a voting system company in Gwinnett County. He said the young worker had been targeted by someone who hung a noose and declared that the worker should be “hung for treason,” simply for doing a routine element of his job. Mr. Sterling did not provide any other details.

“I can’t begin to explain the level of anger I have right now over this,” he said. “And every American, every Georgian, Republican and Democrat alike, should have that same level of anger.”

Details of the noose incident Mr. Sterling cited could not be corroborated Tuesday. Cpl. Ryan Winderweedle, a spokesman for the Gwinnett County Police Department, said that he did not have any information about such an incident but noted that it could have occurred beyond that department’s jurisdiction.

Joe Sorenson, a spokesman for the county government, said in an email that “citizen monitors” had “harassed” some county technology workers who were doing work that was unrelated to the elections but that involved going in and out of a storage area in the same building as the county elections office.





No.23 article:
Escape the Boredom Trap

No one likes it when their kid is bored out of her skull. But tedium can be an opportunity, too.

Thanks to this pandemic, I am now the proud (and not-so-proud) owner of the following things: a boomerang, a hula hoop, a water balloon pump, a hippity hop jumping ball, a punching bag, a remote control helicopter, a drum set, a rope tree swing, a 50-pack of rocket balloons, two fishing rods, assorted fishing tackle and the toys from roughly 37 Kinder Surprise eggs.

I am not a shopping addict; I am the mom of a 6-year-old. And 6-year-olds get bored fast.

“Before Covid-19, our days were usually built around scheduled activity after scheduled activity,” said Parker Huston, a pediatric psychologist at Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. “Now that we can’t do those things, kids and parents are struggling.”

As arbiters of family schedules, parents are often tasked with “curing” their kids’ boredom. And this can lead to self judgment, said John Eastwood, an associate professor of clinical psychology at York University in Toronto, who leads a team of researchers at the Boredom Lab (which has the slogan: “exploring the unengaged mind”). “People think, ‘If my kids are bored, it means I’m an awful parent.’”

But boredom is neither good nor bad, said James Danckert, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada, and co-author of the book, “Out of My Skull: The Psychology of Boredom,” which he wrote with Dr. Eastwood.

“In-the-moment feelings of boredom are uncomfortable,” said Dr. Danckert. But it’s how you — or your child — choose to act on those feelings that can determine the outcome.

Once thought of as a mild form of depression, boredom is now recognized as a distinct mental state. “People minimize it, but it’s really a complex, nuanced thing,” said Dr. Eastwood.

In their book, Dr. Danckert and Dr. Eastwood described boredom as a signal, much like hunger. When you’re hungry, you crave food. When you’re bored, you crave an experience that’s different from the one you’re currently having.

Of course, any parent who’s ever left their child alone for 15 minutes and returned to discover they’ve used a Sharpie on the cat knows that the “solution” for boredom may not always be the one we want.

In a new series of studies published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, for instance, researchers found that inducing boredom in adults increased the likelihood of engaging in certain sadistic behaviors, like grinding worms in a coffee grinder (though no worms were actually harmed) or docking another person’s pay. This behavior hasn’t been studied in children specifically, but any parent could see how it could apply (sibling-on-sibling sadism, anyone?).

Older research also indicates that we’re strongly motivated to avoid boredom, even if it means self-inflicting pain. In one study, published in the journal Science in 2014, 18 college students were invited to sit alone with their thoughts for 15 minutes in the presence of a device that delivered electric shocks. Nearly half (more men than women) chose to shock themselves for no reason other than something to do. (These findings were later replicated in a slightly larger study of 69 college students in 2016.)

Everyone feels bored from time to time, but experts estimate that around 10 to 15 percent of people tend to experience it more frequently and more intensely than others. While research in this area is still developing, this propensity for being easily bored has been loosely linked with a range of negative outcomes, including increased risk-taking, binge drinking and aggression. Preliminary research borne out of the pandemic has even found that boredom-prone people are less likely to social distance or wear masks.

And people with more run-of-the-mill tedium, or what researchers call “state boredom,” has been linked to poor academic performance and even may play a role in overeating.

Of course, academics have only been paying close attention to the field of boredom in the last few decades, and none of these studies prove that boredom alone causes these behaviors. But it does imply that some people, particularly those with poor self-regulation skills, might respond to boredom in negative ways.

In a study co-authored by Dr. Danckert and published in the journal Cognition and Emotion in 2020, 228 undergraduate students were put in a room with a partially built Lego set, internet-connected tablets, and puzzles, but were instructed not to use any of them. The group reported higher boredom compared with those who sat in a room with nothing in it.

“That has implications for how we’re dealing with the pandemic,” Dr. Danckert said. Knowing that you could do something, but can’t, can heighten feelings of boredom.

When your kid complains of being bored, take the request seriously and guide them to appropriate outlets.

The best boredom coping strategy might involve simply reframing how you view a boring task or situation, said Dr. Danckert. Thinking about quarantining as a Robinson Crusoe-style adventure, rather than an annoyance that makes fun things off limits, can help kids deal.

It might be tempting to supply your child with more structured activities — shuffling them from virtual classrooms to basketball to piano practice — but according to Dr. Huston, you should do the opposite.

Try to build unstructured time into every day with no devices, no screens and no parental engagement. Digital devices have their place, experts said, but relying on them too heavily won’t help kids develop the ability to entertain themselves in the long term.

As father of two kids, ages 4 and 7, Dr. Huston said that he likes to start with an activity prompt — What can we make out of these old toilet paper rolls? — and let the kids take it from there.

“You might have to start off small, like 5-minute increments,” he said. “Then reward or really praise them for successful independent play.” Though he acknowledged that, “Initially, you have to be prepared to deal with some frustration.”

For older kids, it can be more helpful to find things they really want to be engaged with on a more consistent basis. “Teens want to do things that are in line with who they’re developing into as adults,” he said, like art or computer programming.

At any age, “the goal is to force kids to use the resources they have to entertain themselves and be stimulated and happy,” Dr. Huston said. Once they can do that, they’ll be fully equipped to deal with their own kids whining at them about being bored some day.





No.24 article:
Ray Davies on 50 Years of ‘Lola’

Two years before an official Gay Pride rally arrived in the United Kingdom, the Kinks released one of pop’s first big hits with an L.G.B.T. theme.

In 1970, homosexual acts were still outlawed in parts of the United Kingdom and would remain so for more than a decade. Yet two years before the nation even had its first official Gay Pride rally, the quintessentially British songwriter Ray Davies of the Kinks wrote “Lola,” a song that embraced a full spectrum of gender nonconformity. “Girls will be boys/and boys will be girls,” he sang, before emphasizing “it’s a mixed-up, muddled-up, shook-up world/except for Lola.”

The song shot to No. 2 on the British singles chart, hit the Top 10 in the United States and went all the way to No. 1 in five other countries. The response even took its author by surprise. “I didn’t think the song would be so ahead of its time,” Davies said. “But time has proven it so.”

To emphasize the single’s pivotal role, and to celebrate its 50th anniversary, Davies has assembled a sprawling boxed set that adds remixes and outtakes to the album that contained it, “Lola Versus Powerman and the Moneygoround, Part One.” The LP, a witty and scathing sendup of the music industry’s exploitation of artists, turned around the fortunes of the commercially flagging Kinks, making so deep an impression on a then 12-year-old Wes Anderson that when he grew up to become a director, he used three songs from it for his 2007 film “The Darjeeling Limited.”

“I planned scenes in our movie around ‘This Time Tomorrow’ and ‘Strangers’ specifically,” Anderson wrote in an email. “Sublime songs by a band of brothers, which sort of relates to the movie. Then I made another scene, just in order to do a trilogy out of it” with “Powerman,” he added.

In a video call from his home studio in the Highgate area of North London, Davies spoke with his usual wry candor. He has been living there since the pandemic began — though “living is a loose term,” Davies said. “It’s more like being in prison.”

But he acknowledged that lockdown has given him time to assemble the boxed set and begin writing a new play based on the Powerman characters, a work that could serve as a half-century-removed “Part Two” to the original.

The creation of “Lola Versus Powerman” came at an especially fraught time in Kinks history. They hadn’t had a major hit in four years, a situation exacerbated by the band being banned from touring America. Davies cites their refusal to sign papers to satisfy the unions as one reason. Another had to do with an incident on the TV show “Hullabaloo.”

After the camera cut away to a few other guests, it arrived on the Kinks, revealing the drummer Mick Avory and Davies dancing cheek-to-cheek. “Everything we could do to annoy people, we did at the time,” Davies said with a laugh. “Nowadays that would be acceptable. Not then.”

Despite the consequence to the band’s career, “the highest accolade is to be banned from America,” he added.

The band’s break from touring the U.S. gave Davies the chance to soar creatively, leading to his first concept albums, “The Kinks Are the Village Green Preservation Society” and “Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire).” But with “Lola” he aimed squarely at the charts. For a fresh sound, Davies sought an instrument that would stand out on the radio. He found it in a National resonator guitar, a brand of dobro that has the hard, tinny sound of a banjo. “My dad was a banjo player,” Davies said. “He said, ‘If you want a hit record, you have to get a banjo on it.’ The National guitar was the next best thing.”

Next, he searched for an irresistible chorus hook, then road-tested it at home. “I had a 1-year-old child at the time,” Davies said. “She was crawling around singing ‘la la, la la Lola.’ I thought, ‘If she can join in and sing, Kinks fans can do it.’”

As for the song’s bold subject matter, many stories have been told over the years about its inspiration. Davies said it came from an encounter at a nightspot in Paris the group frequented called the Castille Club: “One of our crew at the time met this beautiful blonde and he took her back to the hotel. In the morning, he saw the stubble growing on her chin. So, he got a surprise!”

Davies said his empathy for Lola stems from growing up with six older sisters. “We used to dress up and have parties at home,” he said. “Men dressed as women. My dad, who is the most macho man you could imagine, used to put on a wig occasionally and dance around and make a fool of himself, which I encouraged. It’s part of the musical hall culture we have over here. It’s more accepted in London.”

Davies’ portrayal of Lola, he said, reflects his general approach to character. “When I write songs, I put myself in the part,” he explained. “In ‘Sunny Afternoon’ I wanted to know who this broken-down aristocrat was, and I became him. In Lola’s journey, I did a bit of research with drag queens.” He added, “I admire anyone who can get up and be what they want to be.”

He believes the lyrics to the song “passed” among less open listeners because “people only hear a third of the lyrics when they’re playing a song before they make up their mind they like it. They’ll just listen to the catchy parts.”

The subject matter also sailed over the heads of the BBC censors, who only balked at the lyrical mention of Coca-Cola, which violated its rule about commercial insertions. In reaction, Davies subbed in “cherry cola” on an alternate version.

While gay references had cropped up in pop songs before, “‘Lola’ was the first big hit with an L.G.B.T. theme,” said JD Doyle, a music historian who ran the authoritative radio show “Queer Music Heritage.” “‘Lola’ made history.”

According to Davies, “Lola” encouraged other songwriters to explore related territory. “Before he passed away, Lou Reed told me that ‘Lola’ was a big influence on him,” he said. “It was reassuring to him when he did ‘Walk on the Wild Side.’”

Later in the ’70s, Davies wrote “Out of the Wardrobe,” about a straight man who likes to cross dress, which first upsets his wife before she comes to enjoy it. Likewise, the narrator in the Kinks’ “On the Outside” encourages the lead character to accept their identity, which Davies now describes as transgender. “It’s somebody going through a tremendous emotional trauma about having to be somebody they know they’re not,” he said.

Lola was one of the few likable characters on “Powerman.” Much of the rest of the album — which also features two striking songs penned by Davies’ brother, Dave — was inspired by an onerous record deal that made it difficult for the Kinks to earn money. “It’s an old story of artists getting signed to impossible contracts,” Davies said. “I took it personally.”

Ironically, the success of the single and album propelled the Kinks to a new contract and a fresh future. But one song they recorded for the album, “Anytime,” was left off because Davies felt it was “too commercial for its own good.” (The song has a sound and sentiment similar to the Beatles’ “Hey Jude.”)

The boxed set features a new version of the track, expanded by a fresh monologue delivered by a mysterious female character addressing a world of isolation and loneliness that reflects life during the pandemic. It’s a subject that has hit Davies particularly hard since one of his older sisters died of the coronavirus earlier this year. “We weren’t able to go to the funeral,” he said.

For the boxed set, he conducted a series of interviews with his brother, Dave, with a broader purpose in mind: to spark a reunion of the Kinks, who haven’t been together for 23 years. “I’d like to work with Dave again — if he’ll work with me,” Davies said. “Hopefully this will inspire him to trust me more.”

For now, there’s the new play he’s creating that pushes the “Lola Versus Powerman” story forward. “The continuity of my work, and the Kinks’ work, is very important to me,” Davies said. “I write everything with the big picture in mind.”





No.25 article:
Reinventing Workers for the Post-Covid Economy

Especially in service industries, old jobs may not be coming back. Training programs are aiming to provide skills for more resilient occupations.

Rob Siminoski has been in the theater, in one way or another, since he graduated from college. But after 10 years at the Universal Studios theme park in California, he is only No. 13 on the stage-managing roster. Even if the park, closed since March, reopens some attractions — the WaterWorld stunt show, say, or the Nighttime Lights at Hogwarts Castle — he is unlikely to be among the first to get the call.

His luck is that his union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, offers an apprenticeship program for on-set movie electricians. It takes five years, and Mr. Siminoski, 33, is going to have to brush up his high school algebra to get in. Still, it offers a good balance of risk and reward.

“Everyone needs electricity,” he said. “You pull down six figures.”

The nation’s economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic will hinge to some extent on how quickly show managers can become electricians, whether taxi drivers can become plumbers, and how many cooks can manage software for a bank.

The labor market has recovered 12 million of the 22 million jobs lost from February to April. But many positions may not return any time soon, even when a vaccine is deployed.

This is likely to prove especially problematic for millions of low-paid workers in service industries like retailing, hospitality, building maintenance and transportation, which may be permanently impaired or fundamentally transformed. What will janitors do if fewer people work in offices? What will waiters do if the urban restaurant ecosystem never recovers its density?

Their prognosis is bleak. Marcela Escobari, an economist at the Brookings Institution, warns that even if the economy adds jobs as the coronavirus risk fades, “the rebound won’t help the people that have been hurt the most.”

Looking back over 16 years of data, Ms. Escobari finds that workers in the occupations most heavily hit since the spring will have a difficult time reinventing themselves. Taxi drivers, dancers and front-desk clerks have poor track records moving to jobs as, say, registered nurses, pipe layers or instrumentation technicians.

“Many of today’s unemployed workers may find it harder than in the past to find new jobs and advance through the labor market,” Ms. Escobari wrote.

Covid is abruptly taking out a swath of jobs that were thought to be comparatively resilient, in services that require personal contact with customers. And the jolt has landed squarely on workers with little or no education beyond high school, toiling in the low-wage service economy.

“The damage to the economy and particularly to workers will probably be longer lasting than we think it is going to be,” said Peter Beard, senior vice president for regional work force development at the Greater Houston Partnership, an economic development group.

What’s more, he said, Covid will intensify underlying dynamics that were already transforming the workplace. Automation, for one, will most likely accelerate as employers seek to protect their businesses from future pandemics.

The challenge is not insurmountable. Stephanie Brown, who spent 11 years in the Air Force, found her footing relatively quickly after losing her job as a cook at a hotel in Rochester, Mich., in March. She took advantage of a training program offered by Salesforce, the big software platform for businesses, and got a full-time job in October as a Salesforce administrator for the New York software company Pymetrics from her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Yet despite scattered success stories, moving millions of workers into new occupations remains an enormous challenge.

Jared Sooper is also looking for a change after losing his job last March managing a restaurant in the North Park neighborhood of San Diego. Fleeing San Diego’s rents, he and his fiancée packed their things in a U-Haul trailer and relocated to a converted storage space under the deck of her parents’ house near Providence, R.I.

Once there, Mr. Sooper, 37, learned of an initiative financed by the state government to train workers displaced by the pandemic and connect them to job opportunities. In November, he finished a five-week program run by Local 51 of the union for the plumbing and pipe fitting trades to become a welder.

“2020 seems to be turning around,” Mr. Sooper said. “I’m feeling pretty confident. If they don’t take me for this one, there are others I can apply to.” Still, he couldn’t immediately find a union job as a welder, so for the time being he took a job doing body work for a company that makes eco-friendly bus frames.

Derrius Gosha, 30, had been in Los Angeles for only a few months when the pandemic ended his job on the sales floor of Bath and Body Works in February. He is now back at home in Birmingham, Ala., living with his mother and grandmother. John Restrepo, 25, furloughed in March from his job as a server at Tony’s Town Square Restaurant in Disney’s Magic Kingdom in Orlando, Fla., is sticking it out in an apartment with his two roommates. Barbara Xocoyotl, 57, furloughed in March from her cleaning job at the Omni hotel in New Haven, Conn., had to give up her apartment and is living with a daughter in New York.

All are waiting for the economy to restore the jobs they have known. “If there are no retail jobs, I could work at a warehouse, and I’m OK on a conveyor belt,” Mr. Gosha said. “The only thing I wouldn’t want to do is put on a hard hat and go dig a ditch.” After weeks of hunting, he landed a seasonal position in the lawn and garden section at Lowe’s.

Often, the old jobs just don’t return at all. As he searches for an opening at CVS, or Walgreens, or another restaurant in town, Mr. Restrepo pins his hope on a deal that his UNITE HERE union local struck with Disney to offer the workers it let go a first crack at jobs once business returns, and retrain them for other Disney jobs if their old positions are terminated. “Thinking optimistically, by the summer of 2022, the majority of us will be able to go back,” he said.

Ms. Xocoyotl has a doomsday plan in case the old jobs don’t return: to return to her hometown in central Mexico to be close to her mother. “I’ve been looking for a job, but nobody calls me back, nobody tells me anything,” she said. At her age, she added, “people don’t even ask what one is good for anymore.”

Training has always been a challenge for policymakers, and the pandemic complicates matching new skills with jobs. Austin Urick, 31, went back to school after he lost his job last year selling equipment for the oil and gas industry. He enrolled at San Jacinto College near Houston to learn instrumentation and electrical systems. He expects to graduate this month, certified to calibrate and replace gauges and pumps used by oil and gas companies.

The industry, however, has suffered during the pandemic. While he has some good leads, his job hunt hasn’t yielded any offers. “It is worrisome,” Mr. Urick said. “But my Plan B is not just oil and gas.” The instrumentation degree can be taken in different directions. “I can work in an elevator company or in a hospital, anywhere that has gauges,” he added. “I can go down the street to Budweiser.”

Harris County, where much of Houston sits, lost about 160,000 jobs in the year through September. Using emergency money approved by Congress in the CARES Act, it has enlisted community colleges and nonprofit groups to develop training programs to move 3,000 workers whose jobs were hit by the pandemic into more resilient occupations: plumbing or accounting, nursing or coding.

“Work force development was a major priority when I came into the office,” said Adrian Garcia, a county commissioner whose district is among the poorest there. “Now, with the pandemic in our midst, it is critical.” With the training program filling up, he is counting on the county to find money to expand it.

And yet at scale, it will be a considerable challenge to assist workers in the transition to a new economy in which many jobs are gone for good and those available often require proficiency in sophisticated digital tools.

“We need a New Deal for skills,” said Amit Sevak, president of Revature, a company that hires workers, trains them to use digital tools and helps place them in jobs. “President Roosevelt deployed the massive number of workers unemployed in the Great Depression on projects that created many of the dams and roads and bridges we have. We need something like that.”

Rhode Island is using stimulus money from the CARES Act to fund a training initiative that provides additional support for workers — like child care and transportation assistance — and gets commitments from employers to hire trainees. Gov. Gina Raimondo thinks the pandemic offers an opportunity for something similar on a national level.

But she acknowledges that this is a heavy lift. “This stuff is easy to say and really hard to do,” she said. “We’re talking about transitioning a whole economy, and transitions are hard.”

Mr. Siminoski, for one, is hoping that his transition from theme park stage manager to movie electrician pays off. But while he’s waiting, he still has to put food on the table. So for the immediate future he’s thinking about going to driving school to get a truck driver’s license. “It’s expensive — about $1,600,” he said. “But I think training takes less than a month, and it seems you can get a job right away.”





No.26 article:
Dear Joe, It’s Not About Iran’s Nukes Anymore

Biden wants to reinstate the nuclear deal, but first he must confront the new Middle East.

With the assassination presumably by Israel of Iran’s top nuclear warhead designer, the Middle East is promising to complicate Joe Biden’s job from Day 1. President-elect Biden knows the region well, but if I had one piece of advice for him, it would be this: This is not the Middle East you left four years ago.

The best way for Biden to appreciate the new Middle East is to study what happened in the early hours of Sept. 14, 2019 — when the Iranian Air Force launched 20 drones and precision-guided cruise missiles at Abqaiq, one of Saudi Arabia’s most important oil fields and processing centers, causing huge damage. It was a seminal event.

The Iranian drones and cruise missiles flew so low and with such stealth that neither their takeoff nor their impending attack was detected in time by Saudi or U.S. radar. Israeli military analysts, who were stunned by the capabilities the Iranians displayed, argued that this surprise attack was the Middle East’s “Pearl Harbor.”

They were right. The Middle East was reshaped by this Iranian precision missile strike, by President Trump’s response and by the response of Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to Trump’s response.

A lot of people missed it, so let’s go to the videotape.

First, how did Trump react? He did nothing. He did not launch a retaliatory strike on behalf of Saudi Arabia — even though Iran, unprovoked, had attacked the heart of Saudi Arabia’s oil infrastructure.

A few weeks later Trump did send 3,000 U.S. troops and some antimissile batteries to Saudi Arabia to bolster its defense — but with this message on Oct. 11, 2019: “We are sending troops and other things to the Middle East to help Saudi Arabia. But — are you ready? Saudi Arabia, at my request, has agreed to pay us for everything we’re doing. That’s a first.”

It sure was a first. I’m not here to criticize Trump, though. He was reflecting a deep change in the American public. His message: Dear Saudis, America is now the world’s biggest oil producer; we’re getting out of the Middle East; happy to sell you as many weapons as you can pay cash for; but don’t count on us to fight your battles. You want U.S. troops? Show me the money.

That clear shift in American posture gave birth to the first new element that Biden will confront in this new Middle East — the peace agreements between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, and between Israel and Bahrain — and a whole new level of secret security cooperation between Israel and Saudi Arabia, which will likely flower into more formal relations soon. (Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel reportedly visited Saudi Arabia last week.)

In effect, Trump forced Israel and the key Sunni Arab states to become less reliant on the United States and to think about how they must cooperate among themselves over new threats — like Iran — rather than fighting over old causes — like Palestine. This may enable America to secure its interests in the region with much less blood and treasure of its own. It could be Trump’s most significant foreign policy achievement.

But an important result is that as Biden considers reopening negotiations to revive the Iran nuclear deal — which Trump abandoned in 2018 — he can expect to find Israel, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates operating as a loose anti-Iran coalition. This will almost certainly complicate things for Biden, owing to the second huge fallout from the Iranian attack on Abqaiq: the impact it had on Israel.

After Trump scrapped the nuclear deal, Iran abandoned its commitments to restrict its enrichment of uranium that could be used for a nuclear bomb. But since Biden’s election, Iran has said it will “automatically” return to its nuclear commitments if Biden lifts the crippling sanctions imposed by Trump. Only after those sanctions are lifted, said Iran, might it discuss regional issues, like curbs on its precision missile exports and capabilities.

This is where the problems will start for Biden. Yes, Israel and the Sunni Arab states want to make sure that Iran can never develop a nuclear weapon. But some Israeli military experts will tell you today that the prospect of Iran having a nuke is not what keeps them up at night — because they don’t see Tehran using it. That would be suicide, and Iran’s clerical leaders are not suicidal.

They are, though, homicidal.

And Iran’s new preferred weapons for homicide are the precision-guided missiles that it used on Saudi Arabia and that it keeps trying to export to its proxies in Lebanon, Yemen, Syria and Iraq, which pose an immediate homicidal threat to Israel, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq and U.S. forces in the region. (Iran has a network of factories manufacturing its own precision-guided missiles.)

If Biden tries to just resume the Iran nuclear deal as it was — and gives up the leverage of extreme economic sanctions on Iran, before reaching some understanding on its exporting of precision-guided missiles — I suspect that he’ll meet a lot of resistance from Israel, the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia.

Why? It’s all in the word “precision.” In the 2006 war in Lebanon, Iran’s proxy militia, Hezbollah, had to fire some 20 dumb, unguided, surface-to-surface rockets of limited range in the hope of damaging a single Israeli target. With precision-guided missiles manufactured in Iran, Hezbollah — in theory — needs to fire just one rocket each at 20 different targets in Israel with a high probability of damaging them all. We’re talking about Israel’s nuclear plant, airport, ports, power plants, high-tech factories and military bases.

That is why Israel has been fighting a shadow war with Iran for the past five years to prevent Tehran from reaching its goal of virtually encircling Israel with proxies in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Gaza, all armed with precision-guided missiles. The Saudis have been trying to do the same versus Iran’s proxies in Yemen, who have fired on its airports. These missiles are so much more lethal.

“Think of the difference in versatility between dumb phones and smartphones,” observed Karim Sadjadpour, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment. “For the past two decades we have been consumed by preventing Iran’s big weapon, but it is the thousands of small smart weapons Iran has been proliferating that have become the real and immediate threat to its neighbors.”

That is why Israel and its Gulf Arab allies are not going to want to see the United States give up its leverage on Iran to curb its nuclear program before it also uses that leverage — all those oil sanctions — to secure some commitment by Iran to end its exporting of these missiles.

And that is going to be very, very difficult to negotiate.

So, if you were planning a party to celebrate the restoration of the Iran-U.S. nuclear deal soon after Biden’s inauguration, keep the champagne in the fridge. It’s complicated.





No.27 article:
Bank Robbers in Brazil Terrorize a Sleepy City, Overpowering Police

An organized gang struck the southern city of Criciúma with guns and explosives, robbing a bank and briefly taking hostages. Hours later, Brazilians reported another gang robbery over 2,000 miles away.

RIO DE JANEIRO — The assailants arrived in the sleepy city in southern Brazil just before midnight ready for battle: They wore head coverings and body armor, and were armed with powerful rifles and loads of explosives.

Over nearly two hours, the gunmen held the city of Criciúma hostage, shattering the nighttime calm with explosions and volleys of gunfire. They used people as human shields while they detonated explosives at a bank, sending a plume of bills flying into the air, and shot at an overwhelmed police force.

“It was a surreal scene,” said Clésio Salvaro, the mayor of the city of about 220,000, said in a televised interview Tuesday morning. “The city was left in a state of panic.”

The audacious attack on Criciúma was the latest in Brazil to target a relatively small city with poor defenses, where security analysts say they have good odds of overpowering and dodging security forces that deal mainly with petty crime. Criminals have carried out a handful of similar attacks in such places this year, rather than in the metropolises where large, well-equipped police forces have experience battling violent crime and powerful gangs.

Early on Wednesday, Brazilians reported online that heavy gunfire had erupted in the town of Cametá, which is more than 2,000 miles north of Criciúma and is in the northern state of Pará. Social media users said that a gang of men was staging another bank robbery, and the public security secretariat of Pará confirmed on Twitter that it had been notified of a robbery in progress.

Videos posted online showed people cowering near buildings as volleys of gunshots could be heard. Photos also appeared to show people being taken away in pickup trucks.

“An assault is taking place right now in the city,” Renan Brites Peixoto, a reporter for GloboNews, said on Twitter. GloboNews reported that some barracks of the Military Police in Pará had also been attacked.

Helder Barbalho, the governor of Pará, said on Twitter that he had been in contact with the security authorities over an “episode” in Cametá, and that he would work to “ensure that peace is resumed as soon as possible.” He did not elaborate. The siege later appeared to end less than two hours later.

Samira Bueno, the executive director at the Brazilian Forum of Public Safety, noted that the Criciúma attack was one in a string of brazen assaults on banks in recent years that appear to be ripped from “the scene of a movie.”

They stand out even in a country with some of the highest crime and homicide rates in the world, where bank robberies are hardly uncommon. In recent years, gangs have attempted to dig their way to millions through tunnels, detonated dynamite to rob banks and have blown up cash machines.

In this latest assault, analysts said a team of roughly 30 gunmen arrived in a convoy of 10 vehicles from outside the state, Santa Catarina, and had planned the operation meticulously. Officials have not said how much money they made off with.

Ms. Bueno said it was striking how police officials were unable to stop the attack.

“It’s curious to see how unprepared the security forces were to deal with this incident,” she said. “Clearly it was the work of a group that is highly organized and specialized.”

Elected officials looked weary and shellshocked when they addressed reporters Tuesday morning at a news conference.

“The operation was successful for the criminals, that’s the truth,” Santa Catarina governor Carlos Moisés da Silva said. 

Police officials in Santa Catarina said the gunmen opened fire outside the 9th battalion of the military police, which oversees security in the city, before heading downtown and taking aim at the local branch of the Bank of Brazil.

The gunfire left a security guard and a police officer wounded. Police officials said the officer underwent surgery and described his condition on Tuesday morning as “serious.”

“The criminals clearly planned, prepared and invested beforehand,” Anselmo Cruz, a police supervisor, told reporters Tuesday morning. “This points to a group that came from outside. We don’t have criminals with this profile in Santa Catarina.”

There are several drug trafficking gangs in Brazil that have carried out sophisticated robberies, but the authorities did not point to any of them as suspects.

Several residents of Criciúma who were shaken from their sleep by the blasts and bursts of gunfire managed to record snippets of the attack from windows and balconies using cellphones.

Some photos and videos showed men sitting in a file along a street. Local news reports described them as a human shield that prevented police vehicles from reaching the bank.

Daniel Freitas, a congressman who lives near the bank that was attacked, said he assumed the bursts that awoke him and his family were fireworks.

“What happened was unprecedented for people from Criciúma and Santa Catarina,” he said. “The shooting was unrelenting. It was constant gunfire and bombs.”

Bruno Adriano Della, a 20-year-old resident, said he had been woken up by gunfire.

“The whole city was in shock, and with gunshots everywhere. Nobody knew what to do,” he said. “We were just praying that it would end.”

He said the assault reminded him of scenes from the film Money Heist, the Spanish crime drama that follows robbers carrying out elaborate heists.

Video footage widely shared on social media showed people grabbing what appeared to be cash off the streets in the aftermath of the attack.

“It was pretty terrifying,” said Gustavo Inacio, 21, adding that the assault had been concentrated in the central parts of the city. “I couldn’t sleep out of fear that they would come to the other neighborhoods.”

Law enforcement officials said investigators from across Santa Catarina, neighboring states and the federal government had been mobilized to search for the gunmen.

“All the police forces in the state of Santa Catarina are working jointly to track down information and identify the perpetrators of this crime,” Paulo Koerich, the chief of the civil police in the state, said in a statement. “We will not tolerate these criminal actions in the state of Santa Catarina.”





No.28 article:
Long-Term-Care Residents and Health Workers Should Get Vaccine First, C.D.C. Panel Says

The C.D.C. director will decide by Wednesday whether to accept the recommendation. States aren’t required to follow it, but most are expected to.

WASHINGTON — An independent panel advising the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention voted Tuesday to recommend that residents and employees of nursing homes and similar facilities be the first people in the United States to receive coronavirus vaccines, along with health care workers who are especially at risk of being exposed to the virus.

The panel, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, voted 13 to 1 during an emergency meeting to make the recommendation. The director of the C.D.C., Dr. Robert R. Redfield, is expected to decide by Wednesday whether to accept it as the agency’s formal guidance to states as they prepare to start giving people the shots as soon as two weeks from now.

“We are acting none too soon,” said Dr. Beth Bell, a panel member and global health expert at the University of Washington, noting that Covid-19 would kill about 120 Americans during the meeting alone.

States are not required to follow the panel’s recommendations, but they usually do. The final decision will rest with governors, who are consulting with their top health officials as they complete distribution plans.

The new recommendation is the first of several expected from the panel over the coming weeks, as vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna go through the federal approval process, on the thorny question of which Americans should be at the front of the long line to get vaccinated while supply is still scarce. The panel described it as an interim recommendation that could change as more is learned about how well the vaccines work in different age groups and how well the manufacturers keep up with demand.

The roughly three million people living in long-term care and those who care for them are a relatively clear target; 39 percent of deaths from the coronavirus have occurred in such facilities, according to an analysis by The New York Times. But states and health systems will ultimately have to decide which of the nation’s 21 million health care workers should qualify to receive the first doses, as there won’t be enough at first for everyone.

Pfizer and Moderna have estimated that they will have enough to vaccinate, at most, 22.5 million Americans by year’s end, with the required two doses, a few weeks apart. The C.D.C. will apportion the supply among the states, with the initial allocation proportional to the size of each state’s adult population.

The only member of the committee to vote against the recommendation was Dr. Helen Talbot, an infectious-disease specialist at Vanderbilt University, who expressed discomfort with putting long-term-care residents in the first priority group because the vaccines’ safety had not been studied in that particular population. “We enter this realm of ‘we hope it works and we hope it’s safe,’ and that concerns me on many levels,” she said before the vote.

But most panel members who offered opinions said they thought the high death rate among that group made it imperative to include it.

Dr. José Romero, the chairman of the panel, said that he felt strongly that its process had adhered to its core principles: “maximizing benefit and minimizing harm,” promoting justice and addressing health inequities. Dr. Beth Bell, the co-chair, acknowledged that all of the members would have liked more data from clinical trials but said that because of the pandemic emergency, “we need to act.”

The panel, whose 14 voting members have expertise in vaccinology, immunology, virology, public health and other relevant fields, has hinted that the next priority group it will recommend for vaccination — “Phase 1b” — will be so-called essential workers, a huge group numbering more than 85 million. A division of the Department of Homeland Security has come up with a list of workers states should consider counting in that group; it includes teachers and others who work in schools, emergency responders, police officers, grocery workers, corrections officers, public transit workers and others whose jobs make it hard or impossible to work from home.

After essential workers, the committee is leaning toward recommending vaccination of adults with medical conditions that put them at high risk of coronavirus infection, such as diabetes or obesity, and everyone over 65. But some states might diverge to an extent, possibly choosing, for example, to vaccinate residents over 75 and then some types of essential workers.

All other adults would follow the initial groups. The vaccine has not yet been thoroughly studied in children, so people under 18 would not be eligible yet.

For at least a month or two, there will not be nearly enough vaccine to cover everyone in the initial groups. Dr. Moncef Slaoui, who leads the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed, said Tuesday morning in an interview with The Washington Post that Pfizer and Moderna would be able to provide an additional 60 to 70 million doses in January “if all goes well.” Since each person gets two shots, that would only be enough for 55 million people at most through the end of January — about 22 percent of the nation’s roughly 255 million adults.

Production will continue to increase in February and March, Dr. Slaoui said, with the hope that two new vaccines, from AstraZeneca and Johnson &amp; Johnson, will gain F.D.A. approval.

“So very quickly, we start having more than 150 million doses a month in March, April, May,” he added. He and other federal officials have said that the general public is likely to be able to be vaccinated by May or June.

The C.D.C. panel was originally not supposed to vote on its recommendations until after the F.D.A. had approved a vaccine. But it bumped up the timing to give states more guidance as they complete their distribution plans, which must be submitted to the C.D.C. on Friday.

On Tuesday, the group specifically suggested that within the long-term-care population, residents of nursing homes, who tend to be the most frail and susceptible to Covid, should get the first vaccines in the event that there aren’t enough, along with staff members who have not had the virus within the last 90 days.

Within the much larger category of health care workers, the panel said that health systems should consider prioritizing those who have direct contact with patients and their families and those who handle infectious materials. Dr. Nancy Messonnier, who leads the C.D.C.’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, told the panel that based on her recent conversations with state health officials, most states and large cities “believe they can vaccinate all of their health care workers within three weeks.”

But whether they reach that goal depends on how much vaccine they get, and how quickly. Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky told reporters on Monday that his state had more than 200,000 health care workers but would receive only 38,000 doses in its first shipment and that it might not get another for two weeks.

Long-term-care facilities include nursing homes, with about 1.3 million residents; assisted-living facilities, with 800,000 residents; and residential care facilities, which tend to be small and cater to specific populations. The federal government has contracted with CVS and Walgreens to deliver vaccines to most such facilities nationwide, with teams of pharmacists making three visits to each to ensure that every staff member and resident gets both an initial shot and a booster shot several weeks later.

Several members of the panel urged that small community doctors’ offices not be left off the initial priority list. “Transmission dynamics suggest providers who care for patients earlier in their course of illness may be at higher risk,” said Dr. Jeffrey Duchin, a member of the panel who is in charge of public health in Seattle and King County, Wash.

Dr. Grace Lee, a panel member and a pediatrics professor at Stanford, said special attention should be paid to health care workers in lower-paying positions, such as nursing assistants, food workers and janitors, who may fear for their job security if they push to secure a spot toward the front of the vaccination line.

“I am very mindful of the equity concerns,” Dr. Lee said.





No.29 article:
Corrections: Dec. 2, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2020.

An article on Saturday about a ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit that rejected a request by President Trump’s legal team to block Pennsylvania’s certification of its vote misidentified the Chicago mayor referenced by Rudolph W. Giuliani. It was Richard J. Daley, who served as mayor from 1955 to 1976, not Richard M. Daley, his son, who served as mayor from 1989 to 2011.

A picture caption with an article on Nov. 24 about Canada’s attempt to keep schools open during a second lockdown misstated Scarborough’s relationship with Toronto. It is a section of Toronto. It is not outside it.

Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about the decision  in many European countries to keep schools open during the pandemic referred imprecisely to the number of new coronavirus cases in France in November. The country as of Nov. 30 had seen a daily average of more than 80 new cases per 100,000 people over the previous seven days, not on average in early November.

An article on Saturday about poor security in the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea misstated the length of the DMZ. It is about 155 miles long, not 255.

An entry in the Listings pages on Friday about classical concerts to stream this month misstated the Brooklyn venue that has presented the trumpeter and composer Nate Wooley’s “For/With” series in recent years. It is Issue Project Room, not Roulette.

An article on Monday about the music in Steve McQueen’s “Small Axe” anthology misstated the first name of a musician. He is Augustus Pablo, not August.

An obituary on Friday about the actress Dena Dietrich misidentified the advertising agency that created the Chiffon Margarine commercials in which she portrayed Mother Nature. It was Cunningham &amp; Walsh, not D’Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles.

An obituary on Oct. 8 about Lyon Gardiner Tyler Jr., a grandson of John Tyler, the 10th president of the United States, referred incorrectly to President Tyler’s role in the annexation of Texas. While he supported annexation, and signed a congressional resolution agreeing that Texas could become a state under certain conditions, he was not “the president who annexed Texas.” Texas was annexed during the administration of Tyler’s successor, James K. Polk. This correction was delayed for research.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.30 article:
Their Pandemic Safety Plan Starts With a ‘Decontamination Station’





No.31 article:
In Nagorno-Karabakh Peace Deal, Putin Applied a Deft New Touch

The iron-fisted tactics used against Georgia and Ukraine seem to have fallen out of favor, replaced by a more subtle blend of soft power and an implicit military threat.

STEPANAKERT, Nagorno-Karabakh — As a dilapidated old van pulled up at a hillside checkpoint, an Azerbaijani soldier inside scrubbed furiously at his fogged-up window, then cast a glowering look at an Armenian standing just a few feet away.

Just days before, they were on opposite sides of a bitter war. But now the Russian peacekeeper next to them was in charge. He waved the van through toward Azerbaijani-held territory to the right. The Armenians traveled on to Armenian-controlled land to the left.

The vicious war between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the disputed mountain enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh has settled into a tense truce enforced by heavily armed Russian troops. For Russia, long a provocateur in the broader Caucasus region, the peacemaker role is a switch — a new test and opportunity for a country struggling to maintain its influence in the former Soviet lands.

“They say that things will be OK,” said Svetlana Movsesyan, 67, an ethnic Armenian who remained in the Nagorno-Karabakh capital of Stepanakert, even after narrowly escaping an Azerbaijani strike on the market where she sells dried fruits and honey. “I believe in Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin.”

It was Mr. Putin, the Russian president, who by all accounts stopped the war that killed thousands this fall in the fiercest fighting the southern Caucasus has seen this century. But he did so by departing from the iron-fisted playbook Russia has used in other regional conflicts in the post-Soviet period, when it intervened militarily in Georgia and Ukraine while invading and annexing Crimea.

Those tactics, which helped turn those countries into implacable adversaries, seem to have fallen out of fashion in the Kremlin, which analysts say is increasingly applying a more subtle blend of soft and hard power.

The Kremlin’s lighter touch has been visible in the recent Belarus uprising, where Russia refrained from intervening directly and offered only lukewarm support for President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, whose violence against protesters was infuriating the population.

In the negotiations to end the recent war, Mr. Putin leaned on the threat of Russia’s military power, forcing concessions from both sides in the conflict but gaining a grudging measure of trust in the rival camps. Russia has a mutual-defense alliance with Armenia, but Mr. Putin insisted it did not apply to Nagorno-Karabakh. He has maintained close personal ties to President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan.

The strategy seems to have paid immediate dividends, providing the Kremlin with a military foothold in the region and welding Armenia firmly into Russia’s sphere of influence, without alienating Azerbaijan.

“This is an opportunity to play the role of peacekeeper in the classical sense,” said Andrei Kortunov, the director general of the Russian International Affairs Council, a research organization close to the Russian government. “I want to hope that we are seeing a learning process and a change in the Russian strategy in the post-Soviet space.”

With Russian support, Armenia had won control of Nagorno-Karabakh, a region of Azerbaijan inhabited by ethnic Armenians, after a yearslong war in the early 1990s that was precipitated by the breakup of the Soviet Union. Armenian forces also captured surrounding districts, expelling more than half a million Azerbaijanis.

After a quarter-century of diplomatic failures, Azerbaijan began an offensive on Sept. 27 to retake the area by force, making rapid gains thanks in part to its sophisticated, Israeli- and Turkish-made drones.

In early November, Azerbaijani troops wrested the mountaintop citadel of Shusha from Armenian control, scaling the wooded slopes and fighting hand-to-hand in close combat through the streets. By Nov. 9, they were pummeling Armenian soldiers along the road to nearby Stepanakert, home to a peacetime population of some 50,000 ethnic Armenians, and an even bigger battle appeared imminent.

Then Mr. Putin, who earlier had tried to broker a cease-fire, stepped in. Azerbaijan that night accidentally shot down a Russian helicopter, potentially giving Moscow a reason to intervene. The Russian president delivered an ultimatum to Mr. Aliyev of Azerbaijan, according to several people briefed on the matter in the country’s capital, Baku: If Azerbaijan did not cease its operations after capturing Shusha, the Russian military would intervene.

The same night, a missile of unknown provenance hit an open area in Baku, without causing any injuries, according to Azerbaijani sources. Some suspected it was a signal from Russia that it was prepared to get involved and had the capacity to inflict significant damage.

Hours later, Mr. Putin announced a peace deal, and Mr. Aliyev went on television to announce that all military operations would stop. Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia said he had no choice but to go along, facing the prospect of even more bloodshed on the battlefield.

Mr. Aliyev cast the deal as a victory, with all but a sliver of what was Armenian-controlled territory in Nagorno-Karabakh being returned to Azerbaijan. But he, too, had to compromise: Nearly 2,000 Russian troops, operating as peacekeepers, would now be stationed on Azerbaijani territory. It was a strategic boon for Russia, giving Moscow a military foothold just north of Iran, but also a risk because it put Russian troops in the middle of one of the world’s most intractable ethnic conflicts.

“I don’t know how it will end this time, because there is no good example of Russian peacekeepers in the Caucasus,” said Azad Isazade, who served in Azerbaijan’s Defense Ministry during the 1990s. “I am worried how it will end.”

Seared in almost every Azerbaijani’s memory are the bloody events of 1990, when Soviet tanks rolled over demonstrators in Baku’s central square. Russian troops have since intervened repeatedly in troubled corners of the Caucasus, often under the moniker of peacekeepers but acting more like an invading army. Now Russia will be pivotal to the future of Nagorno-Karabakh, with the region’s long-term status still unclear.

“Russia doesn’t want to leave this alone. They like this frozen state,” said Farid Shafiyev, a former diplomat and director of the government-financed Center for Analysis of International Relations in Baku. “They are going to meddle.”

But the deal with Mr. Putin appears to have suited Mr. Aliyev — only in part because Azerbaijani forces were already strung out and faced a tougher, wintertime fight ahead while bearing the added burden of managing a hostile ethnic Armenian population, one analyst said.

“I don’t think Aliyev needed much persuading,” Thomas de Waal, a senior fellow with Carnegie Europe, said. “He values his relationship with Russia.”

For Armenians, many of whom had looked to build closer ties to the West in recent years, the war was a harsh reminder that Russia remains critical to their security. Because Azerbaijan’s main ally, Turkey, posed what many Armenians considered to be an existential threat, Armenians have come back “to our default position: the reflexive perception of Russia as the savior,” said Richard Giragosian, a political analyst based in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia.

It was Russia that offered refuge to and fought with Armenians against Ottoman Turkey during the Armenian Genocide that began in 1915.

“Armenia is now ever more firmly locked within the Russian orbit, with limited options and even less room to maneuver,” Mr. Giragosian said. “The future security of Nagorno-Karabakh now depends on Russian peacekeepers, which gives Moscow the leverage they lacked.”

The Nov. 9 peace deal says nothing about the territory’s long-term status, and ethnic Armenians who trickled back to their homes in buses overseen by Russian peacekeepers said they could not imagine life in the region without Russia’s protection.

Down the road from the Stepanakert military college now housing the Russian command, Vladik Khachatryan, 67, an ethnic Armenian, said there was a rumor going around Stepanakert that gave him hope for the future.

“Soon, we will get Russian passports,” he said. “We won’t be able to survive without Russia.”

Across from the Stepanakert market, in Room 6 of Nver Mikaelyan’s hotel, a maroon bloodstain still covered the bedsheets more than a week after the war’s end. The boxers and towels of the room’s last guests hung on the headboards, pierced by shrapnel from the Azerbaijani bomb that hit in October.

Echoing other ethnic Armenians in the area, Mr. Mikaelyan said he saw one clear path to a sustainable peace: Nagorno-Karabakh becoming part of Russia. The idea seems far-fetched, but it has been floated by political figures in Russia and Nagorno-Karabakh over the years, though not by Mr. Putin.

“What else is to be done?” Mr. Mikaelyan asked, after taking another look at the blown-out hotel room door, the TV ripped off the wall, the trails of blood still stuck to the third floor. “The European Union is doing nothing. The Americans are doing nothing.”





No.32 article:
Perform Abysmally, Defend Yourself Vehemently: The Adam Gase Way

Gase’s head coaching career has been a tour de force of blame deflection and expectation tempering. His time with the Jets is no different.

Adam Gase’s ongoing employment as the Jets head coach adheres to a questionable principle: If you can’t be good at your job, be so thoroughly, defiantly terrible at it that your superiors think that you must be doing something right.

The 0-11 Jets rank dead last in the N.F.L. in points and total yards. Football Outsiders calculates a 32.6 percent chance that they will finish the season 0-16. Sam Darnold, the would-be franchise quarterback Gase was hired to develop, has regressed so badly that he appears unsalvageable. The only reason to watch the 2020 Jets is to experience the shameful thrill of rubbernecking a turnpike pileup. Yet Gase retains his job, even though Bill O’Brien and Matt Patricia, his peers in coaching ineptitude, have already been fired this season by the Houston Texans and Detroit Lions, respectively.

The Jets’ 20-3 loss to the Miami Dolphins last week was punctuated by a farcical postgame controversy. Gase turned play-calling duties over to longtime assistant Dowell Loggains in late October, and Loggains appeared to be growing into the role when the Jets scored 55 combined points in narrow losses to the New England Patriots and Los Angeles Chargers. But on Sunday, Gase again wielded the headset and play sheet, the crown and scepter of play-calling power, and the Jets were held to 10 or fewer points for the sixth time this season.

It looked as though Gase had seized back authority from his semi-impressive subordinate the way Michael Scott of “The Office” might do if Dwight Schrute led Dunder Mufflin to two profitable weeks of paper sales. Yet Gase spun a curious tale in his postgame news conference that Loggains selected plays and relayed them to Darnold through Gase, with the head coach taking over on third downs and in two-minute situations. “It’s not hard. This is not hard,” Gase insisted.

Perhaps Gase really has innovated an atypical and stunningly impractical new play-calling procedure. His postgame explanation seemed as if he were trying to Jedi mind-trick observers into doubting the obvious.

Gase’s entire head coaching career, dating back to his three seasons with the Miami Dolphins, has been a tour de force of blame deflection and expectation tempering. He has appeared to alienate star players until they were branded as underachievers or malcontents. His organizational philosophy seems to hinge upon scapegoating departed coaches or executives (like former Jets general manager Mike Maccagnan, who ran the team from 2015 to 2019 and deserves plenty of blame), creating buffers to insulate him from accountability (the Jets’ current general manager, Joe Douglas, appears to fit this bill) and retaining assistants who are no threat to his authority (Loggains, until last week).

On the field, Gase’s game plans hew strictly to Zeno’s Paradoxes: The offense always strives to gain half the distance needed for a first down, even if it means calling an 18-inch pass on 3rd-and-1. It’s a system which was only successful when Gase coordinated Peyton Manning’s Denver Broncos offense in 2013 and 2014. Like O’Brien (who coached Tom Brady during the late-middle of his career) and Patricia (who in 2017 helped a Patriots team that always wins the Super Bowl to almost win the Super Bowl), Gase successfully parlayed a brief brush with a Hall of Famer into a head coaching career. But Gase has proved more adept than the others this season at sidestepping consequences.

Gase thrives within an atmosphere of Jets fatalism: teams are so bad this year that they have no choice but to wait for next year, yet they cannot expect to compete next year because they were so bad this year. Perhaps that’s what both the Jets and the Dolphins saw in him: After 20 years of Patriots dominance, A.F.C. East teams have been conditioned to institutionalized hopelessness.

Consider how the Jets recoiled from their modest success in 2019. Most teams would have built upon going 6-2 in their final eight games of the season by upgrading the roster. Gase found reasons to jettison wide receiver Robby Anderson, safety Jamal Adams and (earlier this season) running back Le’Veon Bell, three of the team’s only proven veterans/trade assets.

As a result, the 2020 Jets were custom-built to fail, making it easier to justify weekly humiliations and Darnold’s stagnation. Gase may not actually be trying to fail, but it’s difficult to pinpoint what someone would do differently if they were.

The greatest testament to Gase’s near-willful ineptitude is not the Jets’ current failure but the success he has left in his wake. Ryan Tannehill, whose career flatlined under Gase in Miami, is now a Pro Bowl quarterback for the 8-3 Tennessee Titans. Adams leads the 8-3 Seattle Seahawks in sacks. Anderson ranks fourth in the N.F.L. with 75 receptions for the Carolina Panthers. Bell is a contented role player for the mighty Kansas City Chiefs. And many of Gase’s former extended-stay doghouse residents are having productive seasons for the 7-4 Dolphins.

Perhaps that means that there is hope for Darnold, and that the Jets can slingshot toward relevance once Gase is (inevitably?) gone. 

If life tends to get better in the post-Gase era, the Jets should consider hastening its arrival.





No.33 article:
Louisville Is Clamoring for Police Reform. Can an Interim Chief Deliver?

Yvette Gentry won’t be in the job long, but her city is hoping for swift progress after a series of scandals and police shootings.

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — By anybody’s estimation, Yvette Gentry inherited a mess.

It was Oct. 1 when Chief Gentry, 50, was sworn in as the interim chief of the Louisville Metro Police Department. Trust between police officers and the city’s Black and Latino residents was more frayed than it had been in decades.

Chief Gentry’s job, on its face, was simply to serve as police chief until the city could find someone to fill the role permanently. But it was commonly understood within City Hall and the Police Department — and among the protesters who had demonstrated outside for months — that residents wanted more.

“The expectation is on me to hold officers accountable,” she said in a recent interview.

A series of scandals has engulfed the Louisville police force in recent years: In 2017, an investigation by the Kentucky Center for Investigative Reporting found that the department had secretly been working with federal immigration officers to deport undocumented residents. In 2018, a teenager was handcuffed and frisked and had his car searched during a 25-minute traffic stop that resulted in a viral video. In 2019, two officers were sentenced for their involvement in a sexual abuse scandal that occurred when they served on a youth mentorship program; a third was recently indicted.

“We want to live in a place where we are not scared that somebody is going to kill us or take us to jail just because of how we look,” said Karina Barillas, the executive director of La Casita Center, a group that advocates for the city’s Latino residents.

There is a sense that fair treatment is not a guarantee, Ms. Barillas said. With frustration already smoldering, the highly publicized death of Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old Black woman who was killed during a botched police raid on her apartment in March, acted like gasoline.

So the city turned to Chief Gentry, a decorated police officer who led two Louisville nonprofit organizations after retiring as deputy chief in 2015.

“She is uniquely situated, perhaps more so than anybody in the city of Louisville right now, to really be a vessel for reconciliation,” said Jessica Green, a city councilwoman and chair of the council’s Public Safety Committee.

Chief Gentry’s reputation precedes her in almost every crowd. City Council members who disagree with her on policy nonetheless speak highly of her honesty and her loyalty to the city. Even many activists who regularly protest the police temper their criticism when asked directly about Chief Gentry.

But the divide between police officers and many residents has grown so wide that reconciliation can seem like a dream. Protesters want stronger accountability measures for officers who break the rules. Many City Council members agree. Even some police officers acknowledge that the department needs reform.

“We lost every credibility,” said Yolanda Baker, a retired police officer who returned to serve as Chief Gentry’s administrative assistant.

Still, Chief Gentry, who is Black, has given residents some hope. She speaks plainly about the department’s problems and those of the city at large. During a recent conference with business executives, she accused city leaders and the business community of failing to provide opportunities for Black residents.

“Why would it take people coming into some of the precious communities that you have preserved so well, busting out windows and busting out doors, to get people’s attention?” she asked, referring to protests that sometimes led to property destruction in the summer and fall.

“They can fire me tomorrow, they can fire me the next day, I don’t care,” she said. “I have no fear in what I have to do.”

The city found itself needing an interim chief after a popular restaurant owner was shot and killed in June as police officers and National Guardsmen attempted to disperse protesters. The mayor fired the previous chief after learning that officers at the scene did not have their body cameras turned on.

It is not entirely clear what Chief Gentry will be able to accomplish during her remaining time as interim chief — a period that could last several more months. She has said she is not interested in the permanent appointment.

She started her short-term role by tearing down plywood boards that covered the windows of the downtown police station to protect the building from racial justice demonstrators — a gesture that the department would again open its doors to the outside world.

She met with some of the protesters. And she set other goals: educate the public on when, and when not, to call the police; instill in officers a mission to build relationships with the communities they patrol; foster more diversity within the police force; and secure a major pay raise for starting officers.

She has made some progress, but a fatal police shooting on Nov. 22 cast doubt on her ability to usher in the transparency that people were hoping for.

Body camera footage of the shooting, which happened during a traffic stop, was released on Monday — more than a week after it happened.

The Police Department had a policy to release body camera footage within 24 hours. But this summer, facing backlash after Ms. Taylor’s death, the department handed over the investigation of police shootings to the Kentucky State Police. While the new policy was meant to improve accountability, critics argued that it effectively eroded transparency.

“Whoever had the brilliant idea to entrust the public’s right to know with K.S.P. was seriously misinformed,” said Amye Bensenhaver, a retired assistant attorney general in Kentucky who specialized in open records cases.

Chief Gentry said she would prefer that a regional task force of law enforcement agencies handle these cases. She added that while some so-called reforms can seem like a good idea, they often do not mesh with reality.

“Everybody’s goal right now is to get us better, to get past the pain and heal our city,” she said, but “I’m not going to be doing stuff hastily to make people happy.”

Some demonstrators, she noted, have called for a ban on the use of chokeholds by the police. But, she said, the restraint can give officers an alternative to using their guns in life-threatening situations.

“If somebody has one of my four sons in a situation where they’re not in their right mind, Lord help them, please don’t shoot my son if you can do something else,” she said.

Chief Gentry began her career in law enforcement as a dispatch operator, answering 911 calls and directing officers to emergencies. By the late 1990s she was a sworn Louisville police officer, assigned to patrol the Park Hill housing project.

In the summer of 1999, a heat wave descended on the city, leaving many Park Hill residents sweltering in apartments without air-conditioning.

Seeing their need, Chief Gentry raised enough money to buy dozens of air-conditioning units. Along with other officers, she installed them. It would not be an exaggeration to say her project possibly saved lives; more than 250 people in the Midwest died from the heat that summer.

“Policing is a privileged opportunity to just really dig deep into how you help people,” Chief Gentry said. “Very few people get the privilege to actually peek behind the curtains, so it’s what you do with that information, you know, what are you going to do with it now that you see it?”

Over the next two decades, Chief Gentry moved up the ranks, becoming deputy chief in 2011 and retiring from the force in January 2015.

Then, this summer, she was asked to return. Some friends told her not to. Her husband was skeptical as well, worrying for her health — Chief Gentry was declared free of breast cancer in 2016.

During her swearing-in ceremony, Mayor Greg Fischer described the uneasiness in Louisville as “a challenging time unlike anything any of us have ever seen.”

One night in October, at the suburban home of the state’s attorney general, Daniel Cameron, about four dozen demonstrators gathered to protest his office’s investigation into Ms. Taylor’s death. Police officers were there too: They formed a line and began to march, urging the crowd to get off the street. Reluctantly, the protesters moved back, in a scene that has become typical in 2020.

Asked about Chief Gentry’s ability to improve conditions in Louisville, the demonstrators expressed disagreement. Travis Nagdy, 21, said he would wait and see, though he was skeptical that she could solve the problems that led to the protests in the first place. About a month later, on Nov. 23, Mr. Nagdy was shot and killed in Louisville. The police have made no arrests in the case.

Delaney Haley, who helped organize the protest at Mr. Cameron’s house, said she was happy to see a Black woman at the helm but doubted that she would bring the systematic changes many residents wanted.

“We definitely want to be hopeful,” she said, “but we’ve seen these chiefs come in and out and not much change is made.”





No.34 article:
New ‘BTS Law’ Is Passed in South Korea. An Army of Fans Rejoices.

The oldest member of BTS was saved at the last minute from having to join the military under the country’s conscription system.

SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Seok-jin, the oldest member of the global K-pop phenomenon​ BTS​, turns 28 on Friday. On Tuesday, South Korea’s Parliament gave him an early birthday present.

Mr. Kim’s birthday could have marked the end of his current career as a K-pop star. Until now, all able-bodied South Korean men have been required to enlist in the military for about 20 months once they turn 28, if not sooner.

South Korea’s National Assembly, enamored of BTS’s global success, came to Mr. Kim’s rescue by passing a revision of the country’s Military Service Act​. The revised law lets top K-pop stars like Mr. Kim postpone their ​military ​service until they turn 30. Mr. Kim, who goes by his stage name Jin, will now be able to perform for two more years at what could be the height of his career. ​

The news instantly electrified BTS fans, who call themselves the Army.

“What a day to be alive,” one follower wrote on Twitter.

Under the revised law, K-pop entertainers who have received government medals for helping spread or elevate the country’s ​cultural influence around the world can apply for deferment of their military service. All seven members of BTS meet that requirement. They were awarded the medal in 2018.

The announcement of the so-called BTS law is a long sought-after victory for fans of male K-pop stars. Under South Korea’s conscription system, military duty has been billed as a sacred rite of passage for all young men. The government has allowed some exceptions, but its criteria have come under scrutiny in recent years.

For decades, top athletes, like Olympians or Asian Games medal-winners, have been excused from military service on the grounds that they enhance national prestige. Draft exemptions are also granted to classical and folk musicians who win certain awards. K-pop fans have argued it is unfair that world-class K-pop stars are denied that privilege, even though K-pop has become a global phenomenon.

When members of well-known boy bands report for boot camp, crowds of female fans from across Asia often gather to bid them farewell.

Lawmakers introduced a bill for revising the Military Service Act in September, after BTS became the first-ever South Korean group to top the United States Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with the song “Dynamite.”

“It’s a sacred duty to defend our country, but that doesn’t mean that everyone has to carry a weapon,” Noh Woong-rae, a senior lawmaker in the governing​ Democratic Party, ​said in an October statement supporting special treatment for BTS.

​In South Korea, more than 200,000 young men each year​ have to interrupt their studies or careers to join the military. Conscription is seen as crucial to the country’s defense against North Korea, and South Korea cannot afford too many exemptions.

After decades of low birthrates, the country will soon lack enough young men to maintain its conscripted military at 620,000 members, defense officials say.

In October, the Military Manpower Administration, which oversees the draft, said that although it would not exempt top K-pop stars from military service, it would let them at least postpone ​it.





No.35 article:
Are You Ready for Some (Wednesday) Football?

After multiple delays, the Ravens and the Steelers appear set for the N.F.L.’s second Wednesday game since one in 1948. It is an unusual day for football, but games on that day have been fairly notable.

If the N.F.L. schedules a game for a Wednesday, it is a safe bet that something went wrong. From a presidential speech to Pennsylvania’s restrictive blue laws to a velodrome flooded with mud, the league tends to move its contests to that day of the week only as a last resort.

That is certainly the case for Wednesday’s game between the Baltimore Ravens and the undefeated Pittsburgh Steelers, which was originally scheduled for a prime time spot on Thanksgiving. The game was later moved to Sunday afternoon because of a coronavirus outbreak among the Ravens, then pushed to Tuesday night when the outbreak spread to affect over 20 people and finally ended up on Wednesday.

A look back at Wednesday games throughout N.F.L. history reveals the league may not play on the day very often, but Wednesdays have provided more than their fair share of indelible memories.

With President Barack Obama scheduled to speak on the Thursday of the Democratic National Convention in 2012, the N.F.L.’s traditional season opener was moved one day earlier. The defending-champion Giants hosted Tony Romo and the Dallas Cowboys and promptly had much of the enthusiasm for the previous season’s triumph fade away with a 24-17 loss to their division rivals.

“It takes a bite out of humble pie,” Coach Tom Coughlin said of the loss.

The humbling continued as the Giants went 9-7 that season and missed the playoffs, though they did manage the somewhat unusual distinction of playing on four different days of the week that year. In addition to their 13 Sunday Games, the Giants played games on a Monday, a Wednesday and a Thursday.

As part of a spread out start to the 1948 season, the Los Angeles Rams played the Detroit Lions on Sept. 22. It was the league’s first Wednesday game since 1940, when it was a more common occurrence, and its last one until 2012.

Far more significant than the day of the week was a uniform innovation that came courtesy of Los Angeles halfback Fred Gehrke. Thanks to Gehrke, who had been an art major in college, the Rams became the first N.F.L. team to play a regular season game with logos on their helmets.

Gehrke hated the plain brown leather helmets of the era, so he painted one blue and added the team’s now-familiar yellow horns. The Rams’ owner, Dan Reeves, liked the design and Gehrke spent the summer decorating 75 helmets for use in the 1948 season, collecting a $1 fee for each helmet he painted.

Gehrke would eventually become general manager of the Denver Broncos, but he was well aware of where he made his mark.

“I spent the better part of my life in football, and I’ll be best remembered for some work I did with a paintbrush, but that’s OK,” Gehrke told Sports Illustrated in 1994. “I’ve been called the da Vinci of football helmets, and that’s not all bad.”

Helmet design is not the only football innovation to make its debut on a Wednesday, as the N.F.L. also played its first night game on a Wednesday, way back in 1929.

In the early days of the league, the Providence Steam Roller played their home games at the Cycledrome, a bicycle racing stadium in Rhode Island. A game against the Chicago Cardinals was unplayable because of heavy rains, but in a chaotic financial environment brought about by the recent stock market crash, the team’s players were unwilling to skip a week of pay. So the Steam Roller brass arranged a makeup game for Wednesday, Nov. 6, at Kinsley Park, a minor-league baseball stadium that had recently installed lights.

The Providence Journal recorded a crowd of 6,000 for the game in which the ball was painted white, giving it “the appearance of a large egg” in hopes that players would see it better. The matchup, part of a stretch of four games in six days for Providence, resulted in a 16-0 loss for the Steam Roller, but it was a financial success.

Seeing that the future would include more night games, the financially struggling Steam Roller were not done innovating. At least one Providence player, Tony Latone, had a clause written into his 1930 contract that called for him to receive only 60 percent of his regular pay for night games. According to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, the team claimed the savings would go toward light maintenance.

While Wednesdays are an unusual day for an N.F.L. game, they are somewhat familiar territory for the Steelers, or at least they were in the early days of the franchise.

The Pittsburgh Pirates, as the team was originally known, began play in 1933 and because of the restrictive blue laws in Pennsylvania, they were not initially allowed to play home games on Sundays. As a result, the first four games in Steelers history were played on Wednesdays.

Heavy political lobbying — largely intended to lift a financial burden on the far more popular baseball teams of the state — had the rules eased considerably, opening the door for Sunday football. But Pittsburgh did not abandon Wednesdays entirely, with the team appearing in 10 of the N.F.L.’s 13 Wednesday games from 1933 to 1936, going 4-6.

Despite that extended run of Wednesday play, the Steelers do not hold the record for games played on Wednesdays. The Detroit Lions, who are somewhat synonymous with playing on Thanksgiving, also hold the record for Wednesday games, playing in 13 of them from 1930 to 1948, first as the Portsmouth Spartans and later under their current name.





No.36 article:
How a Mysterious Monolith Vanished Overnight (It Wasn’t Aliens)

A photographer said four men dismantled the mysterious shiny object that has captivated the country. Two Utah residents said they took part in the removal. 

It was, by most standards, a short stay. The pop-up metal monolith that became the focus of international attention after it was spotted in a remote section of the Utah desert on Nov. 18 was dismantled just 10 days later.  On Tuesday a local outdoorsman with a penchant for stunts claimed credit on social media for the sculpture’s removal.  

The office of the San Juan County Sheriff at first announced that it was declining to investigate the case in the absence of complaints about missing property. To underscore that point, it uploaded a “Most Wanted” poster on its website, or rather a jokey version of one in which the faces of suspects were replaced by nine big-eyed aliens. But by the end of Monday, the sheriff’s office had reversed its position and announced that it was planning a joint investigation with the Bureau of Land Management, a federal agency.

It was left to an adventure photographer, Ross Bernards, to disclose evidence on Instagram. Mr. Bernards, 34, of Edwards, Colo., was visiting the monolith on Friday night when, he said, four men arrived as if out of nowhere to dismantle the sculpture. Mr. Bernards had driven six hours for the chance to ogle the sculpture and to take dramatic photographs of it. Using upscale Lume Cube lights attached to a drone, he produced a series of glowy, moonlit pictures in which the monolith glistens against the red cliffs and the deep blue of the night sky.

Suddenly, around 8:40 p.m., he said, the men arrived, their voices echoing in the canyon. Working in twosomes, with an unmistakable sense of purpose, they gave the monolith hard shoves, and it started to tilt toward the ground. Then they pushed it in the opposite direction, trying to uproot it.

“This is why you don’t leave trash in the desert,” one of them said, suggesting that he viewed the monolith as an eyesore, a pollutant to the landscape, according to Mr. Bernards.

The sculpture popped out and landed on the ground with a bang. Then the men broke it apart and ferried it off in a wheelbarrow.

“As they walked off with the pieces, one of them said, ‘Leave no trace,’” Mr. Bernards recalled in a telephone interview.

He did not photograph the men who took down the sculpture, saying he “didn’t want to start a confrontation by bringing out my camera and putting it in their face — especially since I agreed with what they were doing.” 

But a friend who accompanied him on the trip, Michael James Newlands, 38, of Denver, took a few quick photographs with his cellphone.

“It must have been 10 or 15 minutes at most for them to knock over the monolith and pull it out,” he told The New York Times. “We didn’t know who they were, and we were not going to do anything to stop them.” He added, “They just came in there to execute and they were like, ‘This is our mission.’”

The photos are blurry, but they fascinate, nonetheless. Here are images of several men working beneath the cover of darkness, wearing gloves but not face masks, standing above the fallen monolith. We can see its exposed insides. It turns out to be a hollow structure with an armature made from plywood.

The photographs are the only known images of the culprits who removed the sculpture; they may not have been the same people who installed it in the first place. 

On Tuesday, Andy L. Lewis, a professional sportsman in nearby Moab, Utah,  took credit for the sculpture’s removal with his group, posting a video on his Facebook page. Mr. Lewis is a 34-year-old slackline performer who specializes in high-altitude stunts and brought his sport to Madonna’s 2012 Super Bowl halftime show. 

His video consists of a short, shadowy clip, barely half a minute long, that shows the monolith lying in a wheelbarrow, as someone quickly rolls it out of the park. “The safe word is run,” one man says, as his headlamp illuminates the fallen sculpture.

His friend, Sylvan Christensen, who said he had taken part in the dismantling of the sculpture, sent a statement to The New York Times on Tuesday evening explaining that the group took it upon themselves to destroy the sculpture to protect the area — not only from the incursion of a silvery sculpture but also from the gawkers who had begun descending to see it. “This land wasn’t physically prepared for the population shift,” they wrote, adding that the public needs to be educated about proper land use and management.

But Mr. Lewis has not always been so supportive of the challenges faced by the Bureau of Land Management. He pleaded guilty in federal court in Utah in 2014 to lying to rangers at Arches National Park. He was accused of hindering their investigation into BASE jumping, a sport that Mr. Lewis practices. At the time, the Bureau of Land Management was trying to prohibit such aerial sports, which can damage the home of owls, bighorn sheep and other animals that inhabit the desert. Mr. Lewis was fined $965 and was put on 18-months probation, during which time he was prohibited from entering a national park. 

 Asked if they were focusing on any suspects,  Alan Freestone, chief deputy with the San Juan County Sheriff’s Office, said on Tuesday, “I know they have some leads, and that’s all we are saying right now.”

Artists had been casually speculating that whoever put the sculpture up probably had taken it down once it was discovered, as if aspiring to be anonymous artist-activists, the Banksy of the desert.

But art-world speculation had not yielded too many facts. Initially, the monolith was linked to John McCracken, a California-born artist who died in 2011 and harbored a taste for science fiction. David Zwirner, the New York art dealer who represents the artist’s estate and first identified the monolith as an authentic McCracken, stepped forward on Monday to tell The Times that he had studied photographs of it and no longer had any idea who had made it.

Almine Rech, who represents the artist at her galleries in Paris and Brussels, also contacted a reporter to deny that the desert monolith was a McCracken. 

And news stories spread of a copycat monolith sighting in the hills of Romania.

All of this leaves us not an iota closer to solving the mystery of who created the Utah sculpture. 

On the plus side, the monolith that captivated the country over the past week, then disappeared as quickly as it entered public consciousness, continues to provide a pleasant sensation of uncertainty. Would it lose its aura and power if we knew who had created it?

Susan Beachy contributed research.

Advertisement





No.37 article:
Do We Need Football in America This Badly?

The N.F.L.’s efforts to keep the season going are reaching heights of absurdity as the pandemic worsens. It’s time to pause.

Yes, we need joyful distractions in times of trouble. And yes, the N.F.L. has long served that need more than any other American sport.

But it’s not worth it at this cost.

Not with players, coaches and staff across the league getting infected with the coronavirus by the dozens.

Not as the virus spirals out of control across the country, causing Dr. Anthony Fauci to predict that “December, January and early February are going to be terribly painful months.”

All sports are trying to plow through this worsening stage of the pandemic, arguing their economics are so dire that there is no other option. College basketball limps along, chasing the financial windfall of March Madness. The N.B.A. is planning to start another season this month, and the N.H.L. is scheduled to begin in January. Baseball remains committed to opening next spring.

But football is different. It has far larger teams and the games have never been played in the kind of tightly controlled “bubble” environments that basketball and hockey used at the end of last season to keep the outbreaks to a minimum.

College football, as I’ve written, was foolish to move forward knowing teams would play in an environment that was impossible to control. Its schedule is full of games halted by the virus. Many of its players, who help rake in millions for their schools but don’t have the benefit of union protection and labor laws, have had positive tests.

Now, pro football, which helped set the tone for a return to sports because of its vast popularity, is an utter mess. So much so that it is simply time for the N.F.L. to press pause, regroup and rethink its approach.

Of the league’s 32 teams, all but one, the Seattle Seahawks, have been hit by the virus. The outbreaks began piling up almost from the start, as N.F.L. teams began flying across the country for games, some of them playing in stadiums with a limited number of fans. In October, two dozen Tennessee Titans became infected, causing the first of what has become a string of postponements.

The N.F.L. looks like it is running a circus.

Among the latest lowlights: A marquee game between the Baltimore Ravens and the Pittsburgh Steelers, scheduled for Thanksgiving Day, was postponed to Sunday after several Ravens players tested positive, including the league’s reigning most valuable player, Lamar Jackson. As the number of infected players began piling up, the league moved the game to Tuesday.

Then the league rescheduled the game again, this time for Wednesday afternoon.

Why not play at night, giving players who have barely practiced in recent days more time to prepare, decreasing their risk of injury? The scheduling decision hinged on television, the league’s cash cow. NBC, which will broadcast the game, wanted to stick with its plans to air the tree-lighting ceremony at Rockefeller Center during a two-hour prime-time special.

On the West Coast, the league didn’t look any better. The San Francisco 49ers will play their next two home games at the Arizona Cardinals’ Stadium, near Phoenix. That last-minute, jury-rigged plan came about after officials in Santa Clara County, Calif., where the 49ers’ stadium is, wisely decided to ban contact sports through late December in a bid to stem the virus surge wreaking havoc in large parts of the state.

But there is a problem: State Farm Stadium is in Maricopa County, Ariz., which has had an average daily rate of 42.7 cases per 100,000 residents in the past week — well above the alarming rate of 29.5 cases per 100,000 residents in Santa Clara County.

The change of venues only makes sense for a league trying to keep a troubled season going, not from the standpoint of public health.

The league was making things up on the fly, the same as it has done all season. “It seems like they didn’t have a plan for what to do once people started testing positive,” said Angela Rasmussen, a virologist at the Georgetown Center for Global Health and Security, when we spoke this week. “They’re sort of flying by the seat of their pants, trying to figure out how to actually finish the season.”

Remaining on the current path is a fool’s errand, added Eric Topol, a coronavirus expert and professor of molecular medicine at Scripps Research. Trying to play without the benefit of an N.B.A.-style restricted environment, he said, “is an exercise not just in futility, but in danger.”

Agreed.

It would be better to pause the season now, retool the health protocols and wait out the coming storm. If the virus recedes to controllable levels by the early part of 2021, resume with a shortened playoff and a Super Bowl — ditching the current plan to allow fans in the stands at that game.

An even wiser option: End the season now.

Fans won’t like it. Players and coaches will balk. A league with teams worth billions of dollars will talk about how it can’t afford to miss out on the television revenue. But it has come to this: For the sake of us all, stop play. Prepare instead for a return in the fall of 2021, when a vaccine has a chance to help life return to something close to normal.

Why not?

Are N.F.L. games essential? Hardly.

Are teams based in communities brimming with infection? Indeed.

Do virus-infected players and staff members, even the ones who look and feel fine, add fuel to the fire in each of those communities? You bet.

It is possible to love the N.F.L. and stand against the arguments for continuing the patchwork approach heralded by football enablers fixated on profits.

For too long, they’ve normalized the threat.

The persistent risks of the virus — including possible damage to the heart and other organs — are rarely discussed. Positive test results get discussed as if Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, is akin to a sprained ankle for young athletes.

In a September column, as the season got underway, I posed hard questions. Is the return of our country’s most popular sport sending a false alert that we have almost conquered the virus? Is the N.F.L. joining in the deadly and premature message that we’re back, we can do what we want and the ordinary days of old are just around the bend?

It’s well worth thinking about such questions once again.

The death toll stood at 193,700 when I wrote that column. Think of that. All the grandparents, mothers, fathers, children, neighbors. Two months later, roughly 77,000 more have perished. That’s the equivalent of everyone at a packed Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, gone.

It is time to rethink our whole approach to this scourge. The N.F.L. would be an excellent place to start.





No.38 article:
Who Will Get the Coronavirus Vaccine First?

We answer that and other important questions about the distribution, safety and availability of the shots.

After months of deliberation and debate, a panel of independent experts advising the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention voted Tuesday to recommend that health care workers who are most at risk of contracting Covid-19, along with residents of nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, be the first Americans to receive coronavirus vaccinations. 

If the C.D.C. director, Dr. Robert R. Redfield, approves the recommendation, it will be shared with states, which are preparing to receive their first vaccine shipments as soon as mid-December, if the Food and Drug Administration approves an application for emergency use of a vaccine developed by Pfizer.

States don’t have to follow the C.D.C.’s recommendations, but most probably will, said Dr. Marcus Plescia, the chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, which represents state health agencies. The panel, called the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, will meet again soon to vote on which groups should be next to receive priority.

Here are answers to some common questions about the vaccine and its distribution.

The C.D.C. committee recommended that the nation’s 21 million health care workers be eligible before anyone else, along with three million mostly elderly people living in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities.

A staggering 39 percent of deaths from the coronavirus have occurred in long-term care facilities, according to an analysis by The New York Times.  But there won’t be enough doses at first to vaccinate everyone in these groups; Pfizer and Moderna, the two companies closest to gaining approval for their vaccines, have estimated that they will have enough to vaccinate no more than 22.5 million Americans by January. So each state will have to decide which health care workers go first.

They may choose to prioritize critical care doctors and nurses, respiratory therapists and other hospital employees, including cleaning staff, who are most likely to be exposed to the coronavirus. Or they may offer the vaccine to older health care workers first, or those working in nursing homes, who are at higher risk of contracting the virus. Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky said on Monday that most of his state’s initial allocation would go to residents and employees of long-term care facilities, with a smaller amount going to hospital workers.

It’s important to remember that everyone who gets a vaccine made by Pfizer or Moderna will need a second shot — three weeks later for Pfizer’s, four weeks for Moderna’s.

The C.D.C. committee hinted last week that it would recommend essential workers be next in line. About 87 million Americans work in food and agriculture, manufacturing, law enforcement, education, transportation, corrections, emergency response and other sectors. They are at increased risk of exposure to the virus because their jobs preclude them from working from home. And these workers are disproportionately Black and Hispanic, populations that have been hit especially hard by the virus.

Individual states may decide to include in this group employees of industries that have been particularly affected by the virus. Arkansas, for example, has proposed including workers in its large poultry industry, while Colorado wants to include ski industry workers who live in congregate housing.

After essential workers, the priority groups likely to be recommended by the C.D.C. committee are adults with medical conditions that put them at high risk of coronavirus infection, and people over 65. But again, some states might diverge to an extent, choosing, for example, to vaccinate residents over 75 before some types of essential workers. All other adults would follow. The vaccine has not yet been thoroughly studied in children, so they would not be eligible yet.

Each state has a working group, composed largely of public health officials, that has been planning for months and making decisions about vaccination campaigns. Each state’s top health official and governor will probably sign off on final plans.

States don’t need to reach everyone in one priority group before moving on to the next, according to the C.D.C. advisory committee. But more federal guidance is expected on the subject.

Federal officials have said they plan to ship the first 6.4 million doses within 24 hours after the F.D.A. authorizes a vaccine, and the number each state receives will be based on a formula that considers its adult population. Pfizer will ship special coolers, each containing at least 1,000 doses, directly to locations determined by each state’s governor. At first, almost all of those sites will probably be hospitals that have confirmed they can store shipments at minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit, as the Pfizer vaccine requires, or use them quickly.

Federal officials have repeatedly suggested that people who are not in the priority groups — healthy adults under 65 who don’t work in health care or otherwise qualify as essential workers — should have access to the vaccine by May or June, because there will be enough supply by then. But a lot will have to go right for that to happen. One factor is whether, or when, other vaccines besides Pfizer’s and Moderna’s are approved. Once the vaccine becomes widely available, most people will be able to get it in doctor’s offices and at pharmacies. 

Employers do have the right to compel their workers to be vaccinated. Many hospital systems, for example, require annual flu shots. But employees can seek exemptions based on medical reasons or religious beliefs. In such cases, employers are supposed to provide a “reasonable accommodation”; with a coronavirus vaccine, a worker might be allowed to wear a mask in the office instead, or to work from home.

This depends on a number of factors, including the supply in your area at the time you’re vaccinated and whether certain vaccines are found to be more effective in certain populations, such as older adults. At first, the only choice is likely to be Pfizer’s vaccine, assuming it is approved. Moderna asked the F.D.A. for emergency authorization on Monday; if approved, it would most likely become available within weeks after Pfizer’s.

Some participants in both Pfizer’s and Moderna’s trials have said they experienced symptoms including fever, muscle aches, bad headaches and fatigue after receiving the shots, but the side effects generally did not last more than a day. Still, preliminary data suggests that, compared with most flu vaccines, the coronavirus shots have a somewhat higher rate of such reactions, which are almost always normal signs that the body’s immune response is kicking in. At the meeting of the C.D.C. advisory committee last week, some members said it would be important for doctors to warn their patients about possible side effects and assure them of the vaccines’ safety.

Each company’s application to the F.D.A. includes two months of follow-up safety data from Phase 3 of clinical trials conducted by universities and other independent bodies. In that phase, tens of thousands of volunteers get a vaccine and wait to see if they become infected, compared with others who receive a placebo. By September, Pfizer’s trial had 44,000 participants; no serious safety concerns have been reported.

The F.D.A. will also review the data for each vaccine seeking authorization and share it with its advisory committee, which will meet publicly — in the case of the Pfizer vaccine, on Dec. 10 — to ask questions and make a recommendation to the agency. The F.D.A. will then decide whether to approve the vaccine for emergency use.

Probably. Although people who have contracted the virus do have immunity, it is too soon to know how long it lasts. So for now, it makes sense for them to get the shot. The question is when.

Some members of the C.D.C. advisory committee have suggested Covid survivors should be toward the back of the line.

“At the beginning, when it’s a resource-limited vaccine, my opinion is that we need to try and target as best we can to those that we know are susceptible,” Dr. Robert Atmar, an infectious disease specialist at Baylor College of Medicine who serves on the committee, said during a meeting of the panel last week.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.39 article:
Why the Pandemic Has Made Streets More Dangerous for Blind People

Audible crossing signals help visually impaired pedestrians. A court ordered New York City to come up with a plan to install more of the devices.

For pedestrians who cannot see or have limited vision, navigating the chaotic sidewalks and crosswalks of New York City was dicey enough before the pandemic. But the outbreak, blind people say, has made crossing the city’s streets even riskier and more harrowing.

It has reduced the flow of cars and trucks at times, leaving streets in some neighborhoods as placid as suburban lanes. That may sound like a blessing for blind New Yorkers like Terence Page.

But, in fact, the opposite is true. The normal roar of traffic moving past provides clues — often the only ones — about when it is time to venture into a crosswalk.

“Quiet is not good for blind people,” Mr. Page said as he swept his long green cane across the sidewalk along Sixth Avenue in Manhattan, trying to locate the curb at West 23rd Street.

But Mr. Page had just traversed the avenue with confidence because that crossing is equipped with an audible signal that tells pedestrians when they have the go-ahead to stride across the pavement. The vast majority of the city’s 13,200 crossings are not, including the one at 23rd Street that Mr. Page faced after crossing Sixth Avenue.

As a result, a federal judge has found that the city has failed to fully protect some of its most vulnerable residents.

The judge ruled in October that the “near-total absence” of those devices — known as Accessible Pedestrian Signals — violated the civil rights of blind people by denying them equal access to the city’s crosswalks.

Blind New Yorkers “must risk being hit by cars and bicycles and becoming stranded in the middle of intersections,” wrote the judge, Paul A. Engelmayer of Federal District Court in Manhattan.

Mr. Page, six feet and sturdy, knows well what the judge was describing. Standing at the northeast corner of the normally busy intersection, Mr. Page hesitated. Without an audible device, blind pedestrians like him have to guess when they have the light.

“I know I am taking my life in my hands,” Mr. Page said, as he prepared to step off the curb half a block from his home.

The court ordered the city to negotiate with the group that filed the suit, the American Council of the Blind of New York, on a remedy for the lack of audible signals. That decision was welcomed by Mr. Page and advocates for the blind who have been pressing city officials for years to address the issue.

“We are thrilled with the dramatic changes that this victory will mean not only for those who are blind or low vision, but for all New Yorkers who want safer streets,” said Torie Atkinson, a staff attorney at Disability Rights Advocates, which represented the plaintiffs in a class-action suit filed in 2018.

City officials declined to explain why audible signals have been installed at less than 5 percent of the city’s intersections that have traffic signals.

Instead, Mitch Schwartz, a spokesman for Mayor Bill de Blasio, issued a statement saying, “The city is dedicated to making our streets more accessible to all New Yorkers with and without disabilities, including those are who are blind or have low vision.” He added that the Department of Transportation plans to continue to install audible signals across the city.

Since 2014, the city has had a Vision Zero policy to reduce pedestrian fatalities, which has included redesigns of intersections and signals. But advocates argue that some of those changes have actually made matters worse for the blind.

At some intersections, the Department of Transportation has implemented “leading pedestrian intervals,” which give walkers a head start of several seconds before the light turns green for the parallel traffic.

But Lori Scharff, former president of the American Council of the Blind of New York, said that does not help them because they rely on traffic noise for cues. Without the roar of engines in motion, they are left standing at the curb while sighted people rush across the street, Ms. Scharff said.

When in doubt, they often can rely on other pedestrians to offer guidance or an elbow to clasp. But in the grip of Covid-19, fellow travelers are less inclined to get so close, Mr. Page said.

“There are less people who want to help you or even touch you,” he explained. “Since Covid has happened, a lot of the things that blind people need are not there.”

To make matters more challenging, the sidewalks and streets are filled with new obstacles: dining tables surrounded by makeshift fences and tents.

As Mr. Page ambled up Seventh Avenue, his face smacked into an umbrella emblazoned with a Campari logo that protruded into his path. 

The midday journey around Mr. Page’s Chelsea neighborhood revealed just how hazardous things would be for blind pedestrians in New York even if intersections were equipped with audible signals. But there are fewer than 700 of those beeping devices across the city.

“When I hear an A.P.S., I feel safe,” Mr. Page said. 

In a four-block loop from his building on the north side of 23rd Street, Mr. Page encountered a variety of hazards, including scaffolding, police barricades, sandwich boards promoting businesses, workmen sprawled on the sidewalk eating lunch and open stairways to the subway.

He took all those in stride, locating them with his ball-tipped cane — “Jets green” for his favorite football team — before they caused him any harm. But the stop-and-go traffic of cars, trucks, buses and bicycles was a different matter.

When he returned to Sixth Avenue and crossed at 22nd Street without the aid of an audible signal, Mr. Page paused to catch his breath and admitted how anxious that made him. He said he usually depended on strangers for guidance, though he would rather not.

He said people frequently take hold of his arm, meaning to be helpful. But he has to explain that he would rather take hold of theirs so that they can guide him.

Right on cue, a young woman gripped Mr. Page’s elbow and offered to help him across 23rd Street at Seventh Avenue. He switched to holding her arm and chatted with her as they crossed, even though he had the aid of an audible signal there.

The woman, Yolanda Yona, an interior designer and model from Zimbabwe, said she had noticed the beeping that emanated from yellow devices on each corner. “I just like helping people I guess,” she said, adding that she was undeterred by the pandemic.

Even a few audible signals would be a godsend for Myrna Votta, who has had to negotiate the streets of Brooklyn Heights without them for more than 40 years. Ms. Votta, 81, made use of audible signals in Manhattan when she taught music at the 59th Street headquarters of the charitable organization for the visually impaired known as the Lighthouse.

She occasionally encounters an audible signal when she takes her guide dog, a yellow Labrador retriever, to the veterinarians at the Animal Medical Center on the Upper East Side.

“They really are very helpful,” Ms. Votta said, especially at intersections where it otherwise would be easy to find yourself and your guide dog headed in the wrong direction. “You’ve got to be lined up the right way,” she explained. “If you’re facing diagonally, the dog’s going to take you that way.”

Ms. Votta said she and her husband Pat, who is also blind but uses a cane, go out of their way to reach certain places in the neighborhood, including a favorite diner, because some intersections are just too dangerous. She said she hoped the court’s ruling would force the city to install more audible signals soon in Brooklyn Heights and throughout the city.

“The whole deal for me is let’s make the playing field even,” Ms. Votta said. “If you can see, you’ve got a much better chance of not getting killed than I have.”





No.40 article:
6 Books for Thinking, Drinking and Changing the World

2020 has been a year for new and up-to-date studies of wine regions, as well as grim accounts of sexual degradation in the hospitality industry.

No matter how disruptive the Covid-19 pandemic has been, the publishing industry continues to churn out books exploring wine and spirits from every angle. Here are five of the best from 2020, and one from 2019 that was too good to omit.

Many good books have been written about Bordeaux, but few have been as timely or as comprehensive as “Inside Bordeaux: The Châteaux, Their Wines and the Terroir” (BB&amp;R Press, $80) by Jane Anson.

Ms. Anson, a columnist for Decanter magazine, has lived in Bordeaux since 2003 and seems to know every square inch of it. What makes this book different is her focus on what’s under the surface.

For generations, Bordeaux and Burgundy have presented two rival paradigms for organizing and understanding a wine region: Bordeaux has focused on producers, essentially brand names, while Burgundy has concentrated on place, or terroir.

Over the last 30 years, the rest of the world has come around to Burgundy’s way of thinking — that where the grapes are grown is as important as who is making the wine. With little focus on grape-growing, Bordeaux, for many consumers, came to be seen as archaic, even irrelevant.

Yet Bordeaux itself has been rethinking its approach, training its eye more and more on topography, soil, bedrock, drainage and all the other elements of terroir. Ms. Anson’s conceit is to approach Bordeaux from a terroir perspective, with a deep dive into the underlying geology of the region, which turns out to be much more complex than is often imagined.

Working with a scientific consultant, Cornelis van Leeuwen, a viticulture professor, she presents her findings clearly and concisely, aided by illuminating maps and graphics and gorgeous photographs.

The book has much more to offer: succinct introductions to all the well-known major regions, as well as to lesser-known areas that can be sources of good values. Ms. Anson’s profiles of producers are extensive and opinionated, rendered with gentle understatement.

Best of all is how contemporary this book feels. Climate change is ever-present, as is her emphasis on the growing number of producers who have turned to organic or biodynamic farming.

Bordeaux will never be a cutting-edge, avant-garde region. Still as a historic center for fine-wine production, it did not deserve to be dismissed. Ms. Anson has done an excellent job of laying out not only Bordeaux’s continuing effort to demonstrate relevance, but also its timeless appeal.

In the last year, a dark side of the wine industry has been revealed, particularly with widespread allegations of sexual harassment at the elite Court of Master Sommeliers, and reports about pervasive racial discrimination in the business at large.

With her harrowing yet gripping memoir, “Wine Girl: The Obstacles, Humiliations and Triumphs of America’s Youngest Sommelier” (Ecco, $27), Victoria James offers her personal testimony to the grim challenges faced by women in an industry lubricated by alcohol and dominated by men.

Seeing Ms. James today, as the consummate beverage director and partner at Cote, a critically praised Korean steakhouse in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, one could not imagine the hardships she has endured both personally and professionally.

From the age of 13, when she began her career as a server at a New Jersey diner, through her teens, when she started working at restaurants in Manhattan, through becoming a sommelier at the tender age of 21, Ms. James has navigated a horrifying professional path.

She has been raped more than once, she writes, groped and manipulated by superiors and customers, called a prude when she refused sexual advances and a slut when she gave in, demeaned and made to feel worthless. And for what? Long hours and low pay.

She grew up no stranger to adversity. Her family was impoverished. As she tells it, her mother was absent, and her father rigid and tyrannical as he slowly immersed himself in alcohol and gambling. She and her siblings learned self-sufficiency out of necessity.

What saved her from darkness was both a fascination with wine and a series of mentors who taught her, among other things, that hospitality was essentially a form of self-care: If you can find something to love in others, you can learn to love yourself.

Ms. James is a graceful, evocative writer who is able to convey trauma in nauseating detail yet without wallowing in pain. This is a story of determination and resilience that will resonate even with those not fascinated by food and wine.

No matter how damaging her experiences, she is able to find love and reconciliation, along with a professional stature that is the antithesis to all she endured. After her trials, it’s a huge relief for readers.

Yet, what sticks is how shameful and degrading the hospitality industry has been for women. Journalism has exposed many examples, but Ms. James’s book makes us feel in our bones what it’s like to be victimized.

Pappy Van Winkle is the world’s most sought-after bourbon, a cult whiskey for which fans happily pay hundreds of dollars a bottle, if they can find it.

It’s easy to imagine a book that tries to analyze or celebrate its allure in whiskey terms — complexity, smoothness, the mastery of the distillers and so on. The superb “Pappyland: A Story of Family, Fine Bourbon and the Things That Last” (Penguin Press, $27) by Wright Thompson is not that book. It’s not really about bourbon at all.

Whiskey is a recurring thread, of course, spoken of and consumed with love and reverence. But mostly, like drinks at a bar, it serves to facilitate the conversation about Mr. Thompson’s real subject: fathers and sons, legacy and responsibility, craftsmanship, failure and the power of mythology, especially as it envelops Kentucky and the South.

The central figure is Julian Van Winkle III, the grandson of a Kentucky bourbon pioneer and the son of a man who, perhaps unavoidably, lost his grip on the family bequest and died relatively young. By way of luck and no small amount of struggle, he found himself able not only to resurrect the Van Winkle name but also to earn unexpected riches for his family as Pappy became fetishized around the world.

As it happens, Mr. Thompson, a senior writer with ESPN and himself a Southerner, is contemplating his own family issues. His beloved father, too, died young, and over the course of the book, he and his wife are awaiting the birth of their first child.

Reflecting on the history of his own family and of the Van Winkles, he meditates on the nature and value of traditions, on how ancestral voices, though physically gone, can still reach across the years. Fine whiskey, it turns out, also transmits messages from the past and spans generations.

Mr. Thompson is a keen observer, with an eye and ear for detail and nuance. He’s written a warm and loving reflection that, like good bourbon, will stand the test of time.

English-language books that successfully explain German wine have been exceedingly rare. “The Wines of Germany” (Infinite Ideas, $40) by Anne Krebiehl, admirably fills that void.

Ms. Krebiehl, who was born in Germany, lives in London and has earned the hard-won credential Master of Wine, published this book late last year, but it is so desperately needed and insightful that I decided to include it in this 2020 roundup.

In clear and easy-to-follow language, Ms. Krebiehl outlines the history of German wine, along with its major grapes, regions and producers. For those baffled by German terminology, she explains the origin of the important terms and where German wine laws are heading.

Discussions of German wine inevitably focus on riesling, but Ms. Krebiehl’s grasp extends to the other, less-celebrated varieties that Germany, with style and distinction, has made its own. Her discussion of producers is illuminating, and her recommendations are astute. If you love German wine, or are at all curious about it, this is the book for you.

The wines of Sicily, and of Mount Etna in particular, have been among the most intriguing discoveries in the last 20 years. Now comes “The New Wines of Mount Etna: An Insider’s Guide to the History and Rebirth of a Wine Region” (Gemelli Press, $33) by Benjamin North Spencer.

Mr. Spencer was a winemaker in California who married a Sicilian woman. In 2012, the couple moved to Mount Etna and founded a wine school there. This book would serve as a fine textbook.

In straightforward prose, Mr. Spencer traces the long history of making wine within the eruption zone of an active volcano, and the industry’s modern incarnation as a source for gorgeous reds and savory whites. He offers tips for exploring the Etna wine region and an extensive guide to the producers working there.

It may not be possible for Americans to visit Sicily for some time, but this book makes for excellent armchair traveling.

American presidents have been written about from almost every angle. Here’s a new one. “Wine and the White House: A History” (The White House Historical Association, $55), by Frederick J. Ryan Jr., examines each president’s taste in wine and how it was served under his administration.

Mr. Ryan, a wine aficionado who also happens to be the publisher and chief executive of The Washington Post, worked in the Reagan White House. He saw up close how wine was treated and the role it played, whether at intimate gatherings or extravagant state dinners. He also observed the diplomatically tricky decisions of which wines to offer at which functions.

Some presidential wine habits have well covered in the past, like Jefferson’s connoisseurship and Nixon’s infamous ploy on the presidential yacht of reserving the finest Bordeaux for himself, the bottle concealed in a towel, while offering plonk to his guests.

Less known were the high wine bills of James K. Polk, the 11th president; the rejuvenation of the White House cellar after Prohibition under Franklin D. Roosevelt; or Lyndon B. Johnson’s policy of serving only American wines at state functions, a custom that presidents, with the exception of Nixon, have stuck to ever since.

Connoisseurs may sneer at some of the wine selections, or take issue with the ornate glassware employed at the White House. Nonetheless, this glossy, abundantly illustrated book will enhance any coffee table.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.41 article:
These ‘Little Land Mines’ Could Prevent a Summertime Boom

A roaring recovery is in sight, but a lot depends on what Congress does next for the winter economy.

For the first time since the pandemic shuttered the economy eight months ago, the end is in sight.

The development of vaccines that appear to be safe, effective and ready for wide distribution in the months ahead means it’s now possible to envision a post-Covid economy by summer.

There is a distinct possibility that the economy could roar back to full health quickly as soon as public health conditions allow. But for that to happen, the United States will need to make it through what might be a cold, dark winter in which damage could be done to the tissue of the economy that prevents that rapid healing.

With many service businesses having already depleted cash reserves and the government aid they received earlier in the year, another wave of failures looms. And that imperils not only individual shops and restaurants, but also the commercial landlords they pay rent to, and the state and local governments relying on their tax dollars.

The challenge is to keep everything going long enough to prevent irreparable damage to the ecosystem on which a huge share of American economic activity is built — office buildings filled with workers, hotels and airplanes that are full, vibrant street retail, and the public services that maintain it all — when so many individual elements of the ecosystem are under severe strain.

Boka Restaurant Group in Chicago had 2,000 employees working at 20 restaurants before the pandemic, and in the immediate aftermath of shutdowns in March furloughed more than 1,800 of them, said Kevin Boehm, a co-founder of the group.

But as the weather warmed and Chicago allowed extensive outdoor dining, the company’s restaurants were able to claw back. By midsummer, sales were down only 35 percent to 40 percent compared with normal. A refundable loan through the federal government’s Paycheck Protection Program helped meet rent and payroll obligations.

Now, the federal loan is long gone, the weather has turned cold again, and a new wave of Covid-19 infections has put a pall on indoor dining. Sales are down 90 percent from normal levels.

“I’ve spent the last two days sitting in a room with employees who are being furloughed or having a salary reduction,” Mr. Boehm said in mid-November. “This is happening right now. One of our restaurants is one of the highest grossing in America, and last night we did $900 of sales. On a normal night, that restaurant would have done $50,000.”

For restaurants, many expenses move pretty much in line with sales, like ingredient costs and labor. But others, especially rent, do not; in a healthy restaurant, rent would amount to 6 percent to 10 percent of revenue. When revenue collapses but fixed costs do not, as is the case now, a restaurant cannot survive for long. At some of his restaurants, rent is now an untenable 50 percent of sales.

“If there’s no federal assistance, it will wipe out a very large portion of the independent restaurants in America,” said Mr. Boehm, who with dozens of other restaurateurs formed the Independent Restaurant Coalition to seek help from Congress. “We can’t make it to April or May.”

If there are widespread restaurant failures, as the coalition argues is inevitable without a major new federal rescue, it will create an ugly situation next summer. You would simultaneously see hungry diners eager to return to restaurants; vacant former restaurant spaces; unemployed restaurant workers; and restaurant entrepreneurs bankrupted and in no position to start over.

A related challenge could hold the national economy back even after a vaccine is widely available. There has been a slow-moving crisis in some commercial real estate sectors, as missed rent payments start to pile up.

When retailers and restaurants miss rent payments, or hotel rooms sit empty, property owners can typically endure for a while, but defaults are inevitable if those conditions persist. According to Trepp, a commercial real estate research firm, that is now starting to happen.

The delinquency rate for mortgage securities backed by retail real estate was 14.3 percent in October, up from 4.6 percent a year earlier. Delinquencies for lodging properties were 19.4 percent, up from 1.5 percent.

And that reflects missed loan payments before the latest surge in virus cases and renewed lockdowns. Moreover, the new wave of trouble comes after commercial property owners have already taken dire steps to keep making debt payments, such as hotel owners making loan payments out of reserves meant for upkeep.

In other words, brace for a wave of commercial foreclosures, which could create closings and other disruptions as new owners seize control of shopping malls, hotels and other properties.

“It’s already started,” said Manus Clancy, a senior managing director at Trepp, referring to foreclosures in retail real estate. “Borrowers are now cash-flow negative because of bankruptcies, so they’re throwing in the towel or looking to restructure. That part of the problem remains after we have a vaccine.”

That could mean more malls and shopping centers that are converted to other uses — shifts that would have happened eventually anyway, but are being accelerated. It’s hard to get back to shopping at your local mall — or maintain a job there as a store clerk — if the mall is closed while a new owner tries to figure out how to build a retirement community on the land.

“There are these little land mines across the economic landscape,” said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM, an accounting firm that services midsize businesses. “Even if they don’t matter at the macro level, at the local level they can matter a lot.”

State and municipal governments face similar lagged effects, as the economic activity that has not occurred since March results in less money coming into tax collection offices — with the exact timing depending on how a given state funds itself.

Businesses must pay sales taxes relatively promptly, for example, so the contraction in activity has already showed up in those collections. But income tax payments arrive with a longer lag, which pushes some shortfalls into spring 2021. And while a fall in commercial real estate prices could affect property tax collections, that would play out over years.

“States and local governments are thinking of this as a multiyear problem,” said Tracy Gordon, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. “It’s mainly because of the way tax systems work. Most are inherently backward-looking.”

Projections vary widely depending on the severity of the virus in a state; the composition of its economy; and its tax system. But most states are expecting revenue to fall in the fiscal year ending in 2021, with several projecting 10 percent to 20 percent declines, according to data compiled by the Urban Institute.

The federal government, which unlike states is free to run a fiscal deficit, could close some or all of that gap. Democrats widely support such an action. In the absence of that, weak revenue collection would mean states and localities would probably need to cut deeper, adding to the 1.3 million jobs they have already slashed since February. Those job losses would arrive just as public health restrictions are loosening and the economy is otherwise surging ahead.

At the same time, the industries that have benefited most from the pandemic could see a reversal of fortune. As Americans have halted spending on services like travel and sports attendance, they have redirected much of that spending toward physical goods, with particularly strong numbers evident for food meant to be consumed at home, home improvement goods and exercise equipment.

In the third quarter, Americans’ spending on goods was up 6.9 percent from a year earlier, while services spending was down 7.2 percent. If those patterns were to fully reverse to pre-pandemic levels, goods-producing industries would experience a pullback in 2021 equivalent to what the services industry experienced in 2020.

The good news is that even as those goods sectors have increased production, they knew that the surge in demand might be temporary and have avoided long-term investments.

In a conference call, Jeffrey L. Harmening, the chief executive of the packaged food giant General Mills, told investors that the company was expanding its internal production capacity only for products for which there had been rising demand before the pandemic, like cereal and fruit snacks.

For other products that have had a temporary demand surge, they sought outside suppliers. “We’re going external, not due to lack of confidence, but primarily because it provides greater agility,” such that if demand doesn’t stay high, “it’s easier to get out and we don’t spend the capital doing it.”

Still, plenty of workers who have enjoyed lots of overtime because of the pandemic could see a reversal, with bicycle manufacturers and grocery store cashiers experiencing a loss of income just as flight attendants and bartenders regain theirs.

Combine all these forces, and the story is one of both hope and despair.

“We’re still in sight of both the good place and the bad place,” said Adam Ozimek, chief economist for Upwork, a platform for temporary labor. “If we pass another round of business relief and help for households, there is a really strong possibility we’re going to make it through to the vaccine with an economy that doesn’t have massive long-term damage. If we don’t do that, we could still end up in a situation as bad or worse than the Great Recession.

“It’s totally up for grabs.”

There is now a light at the end of the tunnel, in other words, but it is still an open question exactly how far the tunnel goes and how bright the light will shine when we arrive.





