No.1 article:
A Big Win for Democrats in California Came With a Gut Check for Liberals

Joe Biden received one of the highest margins in the nation in California, but a look at how the state’s ballot measures were decided shows a more complex picture of the electorate.

OAKLAND, Calif. — The message that California voters sent in the presidential election was unequivocal: With almost two-thirds of ballots counted so far going for Joseph R. Biden Jr., the nation’s most populous state put up mammoth numbers for the Democrats. But dig a little deeper into the results and a more complex picture of the Golden State voter emerges, of strong libertarian impulses and resistance to some quintessentially liberal ideas.

In a series of referendums, voters in California rejected affirmative action, decisively shot down an expansion of rent control and eviscerated a law that gives greater labor protections for ride-share and delivery drivers, a measure that had the strong backing of labor unions. A measure that would have raised taxes on commercial landlords to raise billions for a state that sorely needs revenue also seemed on track for defeat.

The full force of the election results provided something of a gut check for liberals in a state that plays a big role in the Democratic Party and often offers insights into where the rest of the nation might be headed.

“The results in California show the Democrats that you can go too far,” said Bob Shrum, a former Democratic strategist and the director of the Dornsife Center for the Political Future at the University of Southern California. “California is a very liberal state that is now resistant to higher taxes and welcoming to the new gig economy, which is where the industry was created.”

That is not to say California is lurching rightward. The state is unwaveringly Democratic up and down the ranks of its government. Democrats have a supermajority in the Legislature, and the governor and lieutenant governor are Democrats. Even the state’s chief justice, Tani Cantil-Sakauye, quit the Republican Party two years ago and became an independent.

Pockets of unambiguous liberalism stayed strong on Tuesday with San Francisco voters saying yes to liberal priorities including affordable housing, police oversight and new taxes on companies whose highest-paid manager makes more than 100 times the level paid to its local workers.

And on many ballot measures, California voters validated the state’s liberal reputation. They rejected an expansion of penalties for some crimes and restored voting rights for felons who are on parole, securing the state’s position as a national leader in reducing mass incarceration and reforming its criminal justice system.

[Want to get our daily newsletter California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.]

This year’s mixed results, however, were not an anomaly. California has always had competing impulses. The state that is home to Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, also produced icons of conservatism including Ronald Reagan. Some of the most prominent conservative voices during the Trump presidency hail from California, including Kevin McCarthy, the House minority leader; Devin Nunes, the outspoken congressman and staunch Trump ally; and Stephen Miller, the hard-line anti-immigration White House adviser.

This has put California on the front lines of many political battles. The affirmative action measure on the ballot this year, for example, dated to 1996. That year, 55 percent of the state’s electorate voted to ban the use of race, ethnicity, national origin or gender in public hiring, contracting and university admissions.

The proposition that California voted on this time would have repealed the ban and was supported by a who’s who of the Democratic Party in the state, including Kamala Harris, the senator and vice-presidential candidate. But it was defeated by almost the same margin with which it had passed originally.

Analysts saw a reflection of the state’s demographic complexity in the vote.

“It’s always difficult to do proposition campaigns in a state of 40 million people,” said Anthony Rendon, a Democrat and the speaker of the California Assembly. “But our racial and ethnic groups are more complicated and divided than they used to be, in a bunch of different ways.”

Since 2014, no one racial or ethnic group has constituted a majority of California’s population. Thirty-nine percent of California residents are Latino, 37 percent are white, 15 percent are Asian-American, 6 percent are Black and fewer than 1 percent are Native American or Pacific Islander, according to the 2018 American Community Survey.

Against that backdrop, Mr. Rendon said, affirmative action is difficult to define, with different meanings to different generations, ethnic groups and income brackets. In most of the state’s working-class, inland counties, Californians voted to keep it banned. Only wealthier, left-leaning urban areas such as Los Angeles and the Bay Area supported bringing racial and ethnic preferences back into the public sector.

And in statewide polls, Latino voters expressed ambivalence — one survey done shortly before the election showed that only 40 percent of the state’s Latinos supported the proposition. Many white and Asian-American Californians opposed the measure, fearing that higher admissions for underrepresented minorities might mean less room for their own children in the University of California system. Some young voters did not even understand the concept, Mr. Rendon said.

That complexity extends to the state’s Democratic majority, Mr. Rendon added. “When the left is united in California,” he said, “we win.” But on issues from bail reform to rent control, he said, the party’s factions — progressive, moderate, coastal, inland — “were not all on the same page” this election year.

The way voters approached taxes was also nuanced. Local ballot initiatives were set to generate at least $15 billion in new bond authorizations, according to the California Local Government Finance Almanac. But the biggest tax question of the election — whether to raise property taxes on corporations and other large landowners — looked headed for defeat.

For all their liberal leanings on issues like the environment, California voters have long been less welcoming to new taxes than their reputation would suggest. For 40 years the pillar of local finance has been Proposition 13, the 1978 measure that limited local property taxes and has been considered politically untouchable ever since.

Expecting a Democratic wave, a coalition of public employees’ unions and progressive groups targeted 2020 as a moment to peel back part of the law. Their measure, Proposition 15, would have removed the Proposition 13 tax limits on commercial properties like office buildings and industrial parks, continuing to shield homeowners while raising an estimated $6.5 billion to $11.5 billion a year for public schools and local governments. The measure was trailing on Thursday, suggesting that, even if it wins, close to half of voters remain fiercely protective of Proposition 13.

California is unique in its reliance on direct democracy to decide some of the most crucial issues of the day. Ballots bulge with so many initiatives they might be better described as booklets. And it is not just ideology or the zeitgeist that can determine the outcome. Corporate interests, wealthy donors and advocacy organizations spend what amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars on initiatives every election.

The proposition that repealed the labor protections for ride-share and delivery drivers saw more than $200 million in campaign spending, breaking national records for a ballot initiative.

More than $100 million was also spent on another hot-button measure, rent control. Polls showed that the housing crisis was the No. 1 concern for state voters, and Gov. Gavin Newsom dedicated the bulk of his State of the State speech to the state’s worst-in-the-nation homeless problem. And yet voters up and down the state resoundingly rejected efforts to expand tenants’ rights and rent control.

The most prominent example was the failure of Proposition 21, a ballot initiative that would have given local governments more leeway to cap rental rates but was decisively defeated, according to The Associated Press. That marked the second time in two years California voters have rejected rent control by wide margins, and for the most part local attempts have not fared any better: On Tuesday, voters in Sacramento and Burbank also rejected rent control proposals.

“I keep thinking of this house I saw in a pretty affluent neighborhood that had a ‘Biden Harris’ sign and ‘No on 21’ sign,” said Tony Roshan Samara, program director of land use and housing at Urban Habitat, a Bay Area policy and advocacy organization. “That captures it. People will vote Democratic but when it comes to these issues of land and property, they vote in the interest of landowners.”

Californians are sometimes described as moderate on fiscal matters but liberal on social ones. That seemed mainly consistent with the passage of a number of criminal justice measures, perhaps most importantly the rejection of an initiative that would have made it harder for people convicted of certain felonies to be considered for early release from prison.

Jerry Brown, the state’s former governor, called the vote a “decisive repudiation” of punitive sentences and a “milestone” in California’s evolution from the 1980s and 1990s, when the state, amid crime waves and the crack epidemic, led the way on mass incarceration.

“There’s a lot of work to be done in this field, but California is showing the way in a very positive and I think creative way,” Mr. Brown said.

Mr. Brown spent $1 million left over from his campaign funds to defeat the measure, which was supported by police unions and get-tough-on-crime politicians and would have reimposed restrictions on early releases and toughen sentences for certain crimes.

What do voters think about voting for Democrats and at the same time not supporting Democratic-led initiatives? José Legaspi, a Los Angeles resident who runs shopping centers in Latino communities across the country, said he hardly saw a contradiction. He voted for Mr. Biden and did not think twice about opposing the measure that would raise taxes on commercial properties.

“I truly believe in paying taxes,” he said. “However there is a point at which one should limit how much more in taxes one should personally pay.”





No.2 article:
One Day in America: More Than 121,000 Coronavirus Cases

Thursday brought more coronavirus infections than in any other day of the pandemic. Around the country, the virus left its mark.

RACINE, Wis. — They were feverish and desperate, confined to their cars in a slow single-file line as they waited for coronavirus tests.

A few rolled down the windows to let the 72-degree breeze from Lake Michigan inside and leaned back on the headrests, eyes closed. One family of five, with three children in the back seat of a minivan, had already driven around for hours, trying to find a testing site that was not full.

The coronavirus is surging out of control across the country, and more than 121,000 cases were reported on Thursday, more new cases than on any other day of the pandemic. In 43 states, new infections are climbing steadily higher. To many Americans, the pandemic’s march feels inexorable.

“We knew it was just a matter of time,” said Matt Christensen, sitting in the passenger seat of the minivan alongside his wife.

In a single day across America, the coronavirus churned through homes, workplaces, hospitals, schools and laboratories. From dawn to nightfall on Thursday, the worst day of the pandemic in terms of new cases, snapshots offered glimpses of the virus’s persistent spread and devastating fallout: In Cleveland, lab workers began another grinding day of processing coronavirus tests. In Minot, N.D., a hospital scrambled to find space for the crush of coronavirus patients who came through the doors. In Unionville, Conn., grieving relatives finalized plans for the funeral of a family’s 98-year-old matriarch, who died from the virus.

And in Missouri, officials interrupted the day with a jarring announcement: A person who tested positive for the coronavirus last week disregarded orders to isolate and worked as an election judge in suburban St. Louis on Tuesday. The person, whom St. Charles County officials did not identify, has since died.

On Thursday morning, governors began what is now a familiar routine, pleading in front of news cameras for Americans to do their part to stop the spread of the coronavirus. 

In Iowa, where cases have increased 118 percent over the past two weeks, Gov. Kim Reynolds urged residents to take action at what she described as a critical period in the state’s fight.

“For the next three weeks at least, I am asking Iowans to make every effort to help us stop the spread of Covid-19,” said Ms. Reynolds, who echoed warnings from hospital leaders that capacity could be stretched if cases continue to surge.

Dr. David Williams, the chief clinical officer of UnityPoint Health, put it more bluntly.

“Fellow Iowans, my job is to tell you it’s time we have to start listening,” Dr. Williams said.

That message was echoed hours later by Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, after announcing that a record 4,961 people in his state received coronavirus diagnoses in a single 24-hour period and that 541 people were seriously ill in intensive care, the most of the pandemic.

“This virus doesn’t care if we voted for Donald Trump, doesn’t care if we voted for Joe Biden,” Mr. DeWine said. “It’s coming after all of us.”

In his own state, some of the most invisible work in diagnosing and fighting the virus continued in a quiet laboratory around lunchtime.

At the Cleveland Clinic, a giant fridge glowed with rows and rows of coronavirus samples. Technicians in surgical masks and blue plastic gloves shook test tubes and squinted at graphs on computer screens, trying to determine whether yet another patient had tested positive for the virus.

This is the reality across America, where laboratories — once overlooked in the back rooms of hospitals — have become front and center in the country’s pandemic response as they race to keep up with testing demand.

Nearly every hour, samples from a nearby coronavirus testing site were shuttled over in a cooler and dropped off at the Cleveland Clinic lab. A machine processing samples whirred around the clock. It never seemed to get tired, unlike the people who work in the lab, who have been logging intense hours for months.

“I work, I go home, I come back,” one lab supervisor said. Another worker described an ever-mounting sense of pressure and responsibility. “This is not fun and games,” she said. “There are people’s lives at stake.”

Children are feeling the effects of the rising caseload, too, with increasing infections forcing schools to close, or to postpone reopening if they had not yet opened.

In southwestern Virginia on Thursday, hundreds of students in the Henry County Public Schools district were at work in their classes. They had returned in mid-October after weeks online. But 22 staff members and students had tested positive for the virus since in-person classes resumed, and hundreds more had been quarantined.

So, on Thursday, with holidays approaching and the prospect of more cases tied to family gatherings, the superintendent, Sandy Strayer, went before the school board to recommend that the district revert to virtual learning until January.

The board unanimously adopted her recommendation. Come Monday, the district’s schools will close again.

In Minot, N.D., patients on Thursday crammed an emergency room at Trinity Health, waiting to be admitted. The entire floor dedicated to coronavirus patients, which could hold 35 people, had no more available beds. Half of the patients in the intensive care unit were sick with the virus.

Dr. Jeffrey Sather, the chief of staff, called other large hospitals around the state to see if he could send some patients there — a routine request in normal times. But every hospital was also full. He would have to handle the influx alone.

He said he was thinking about how to dedicate another of the hospital’s six floors to coronavirus patients.

The coronavirus test positivity rate in Ward County, home to Minot, a city of roughly 47,000, had reached 25 percent by Thursday, said Lisa Clute, public health director for First District Health Unit. The virus has spread through the community and recently reached two long-term care facilities, where dozens of staff and residents are now infected.

On Thursday, many on Dr. Sather’s staff were working overtime to handle the huge demand. He said he was worried about an overworked staff, as well as about all they were seeing every day.

“They are witnessing people suffocate to death on a regular basis,” Dr. Sather said. “And it’s a heavy psychological toll.”

Amanda Harper had always imagined her grandmother’s funeral as a full celebration of a life that took her from Canada to Connecticut. The viewing and service for Juliette Marie Foley, 98, would have been at a church, followed by family time where loved ones would have pored over old photos and swapped stories.

But that was before the pandemic shattered rituals and traditions of life and death.

In October, Ms. Foley, the remaining survivor of 17 children, contracted the coronavirus. An avid baker and seamstress, she died on the last day of the month.

On Thursday afternoon, a day before Ms. Foley’s small graveside service in Connecticut, there were still many details for Ms. Harper and the rest of the family to consider.

Would the Zoom link work for the friends and relatives who could not attend, including Ms. Foley’s beloved grandson in Australia? For the few attending in person, how could Ms. Harper ensure it was both intimate and safe, especially with an uptick of virus cases in Connecticut? Should she bring a large photo of her grandmother, or would that encourage people to assemble too close?

“This pandemic has robbed us of the way we say goodbye,” said Ms. Harper, 37, a university marketing director in Boston. “My grandmother had this beautiful full life and it ended matter-of-factly in this catastrophic pandemic.”

By nightfall, the nation hurtled past the 100,000-case mark once again.





No.3 article:
The Disinformation Is Coming From Inside the White House

The president and his allies have united right-wing media and internet trolls with false messaging that legitimate vote counting should stop.

A disinformation push to subvert the election is well underway, and it is coming straight from President Trump and his allies. The goal: to somehow stop a victory by former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., or, failing that, undermine his legitimacy before he can take office.

Mr. Trump’s false declaration of victory in the small hours of Wednesday morning quickly united hyperpartisan conservative activists and the standard-bearers of the right-wing media, such as Breitbart, with internet trolls and QAnon supporters behind a singular viral message: #StopTheSteal.

But its impact has become apparent far beyond the internet, with the theme dominating conservative talk radio and the prime-time lineup on Fox News. There, Trump-aligned hosts pressed the false notion that the vote counting in the crucial, still-undecided states was illegitimate — the sort of message that was drawing flags on Twitter and Facebook but flourishing elsewhere.

“How big of a mistake is it for the Democrats to have kind of a burn-it-all-down approach,” Laura Ingraham asked on her program Wednesday night, “to destroy the integrity of our election process with this mail-in, day-of-registration efforts, counting after the election’s over — dumping batches of votes a day, two days, maybe even three days after the election?”

The messaging was far blunter from the president himself, who used a Thursday evening briefing at the White House to reel off a series of baseless attacks on an election system he described as “rigged” by Democrats trying to “steal an election.” It was the continuation of a diatribe he had started earlier in the day with a tweet reading “STOP THE FRAUD!” that Twitter quickly flagged as containing information that “might be misleading.”

Mr. Trump and his campaign aides had long indicated that they would challenge any unwelcome result with charges that the election was being stolen through “voter fraud,” which is in fact exceedingly rare.

On Thursday, senior aides to Mr. Biden portrayed the disinformation push as part of a desperate, coordinated campaign that, in tandem with the president’s legal strategy to press lawsuits against election officials across the country, was intended to halt a count that seemed likely to end Mr. Trump’s presidency.

“This is part of a broader misinformation campaign that involves some political theater,” Bob Bauer, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden, told reporters. “All of this is intended to create a large cloud that it is the hope of the Trump campaign that nobody can see through. But it is not a very thick cloud, it’s not hard to see what they’re doing — we see through it; so will the courts, and so will election officials.”

If there was little indication that the disinformation push was helping the Trump campaign in court, where it was seeking to use small instances of worker error or technical fouls to challenge Democratic ballots, it nonetheless seemed likely to do one thing: persuade a large swath of American voters that any Biden presidency was being stolen through illegal and unconstitutional means.

“This country is too corrupt, I’m so angry,” said Min Liu, who drove down from New York City to join protests in Philadelphia supporting Mr. Trump. “The Democrats are cheating right now, and the people need to wake up.”

She was not alone. On Wednesday and well into Thursday, the media campaign was spilling into the real world with similar protests in Detroit, Phoenix and elsewhere. Some were led by notorious alt-right trolls, like Mike Cernovich, who rose to national prominence in 2016 pushing the Pizzagate conspiracy theory, a precursor to the QAnon movement that falsely claimed that powerful Democrats were running a child-trafficking ring out of the basement of a Washington pizza restaurant that, in reality, has no basement.

Now, Mr. Cernovich is pushing a message of widespread election fraud in lock step with the president, his children and well-established members of his inner circle, like his personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani.

Taken together, the media activity and the protests were emerging as a national and online version of the “Brooks Brothers riot” in the aftermath of the 2000 presidential election, when preppy Republican operatives, claiming fraud, stormed the Miami-Dade County canvassing board in Florida and effectively halted recount efforts that were expected to benefit the Democratic candidate, Al Gore.

A “Stop the Steal” Facebook page, created on Wednesday to help organize groups to flood ballot-counting centers with “observers,” quickly amassed nearly 300,000 members before the social network stepped in and shut it down on Thursday afternoon. Facebook said it saw worrying calls for violence in the group, which was “organizing around the delegitimization of the election process.”

The Facebook page was started by a Republican activist named Kylie Jane Kremer. It followed on a “Stop the Steal” group, with a similar playbook, created in 2016 by Roger J. Stone Jr., the self-described Republican dirty trickster and Trump confidant. (Mr. Stone was convicted on charges stemming from the Russia investigation but had his sentence commuted by Mr. Trump.)

Mr. Biden’s aides said later in interviews that they did not believe that anyone beyond Mr. Trump’s most die-hard supporters would question the legitimacy of a Biden victory. They pointed to statements from prominent Republicans dismissing Mr. Trump’s unsubstantiated attacks on the voting system. And they said they were heartened by a striking split at Fox News: While its prime-time hosts have parroted elements of Mr. Trump’s unfounded missives, its decision desk has not been shy in calling states for Mr. Biden, and several of its journalists have challenged dubious claims by Mr. Trump and his supporters.

The president and his allies have nonetheless relied heavily on the broader conservative media ecosystem to lob accusations against election officials, and then quickly moved to amplify them.

On Wednesday, the president shared two articles from Breitbart on Twitter. One falsely claimed that officials in Detroit had barred ballot-counting observers, even though both campaigns had the maximum number of observers allowed inside the building. Another Breitbart post shared by the president rounded up criticism from conservative influencers on social media of Josh Shapiro, the Democratic attorney general of the still-contested state of Pennsylvania, as evidence of calls for him to “step aside.”

Searches related to the keywords “steal” or “stealing” in the context of the election had more than 1.2 million mentions across social media platforms from 11 a.m. Tuesday to 11 a.m. Thursday, according to Zignal Labs, a firm that monitors disinformation. Michigan was leading the way with more than 96,000 mentions, followed by Pennsylvania at roughly 80,000 mentions and Arizona at just over 46,000.

Followers of QAnon, the convoluted pro-Trump conspiracy theory that falsely claims that the president is fighting a deep-state cabal of Democratic Satanist pedophiles, were eagerly joining in with claims of election fraud. It fit their imagined narrative perfectly — only widespread fraud by the deep state could defeat Mr. Trump, a man whom many QAnon followers venerate as something akin to divine.

There were indications that at least some parts of the campaign were planned in advance of Election Day.

A young conservative activist, John Doyle, who runs a YouTube channel called Heck Off, Commie!, was circulating a Google doc that encouraged people to head off the purported fraud in Pennsylvania and lobby state legislators “to cast their electoral votes as Republican!” The document, which listed the names and numbers of all the state’s legislators, was created on Tuesday — that is, before the president or his allies were claiming the election was being stolen in Pennsylvania.

Mr. Doyle did not respond to a request for comment, and his Twitter account, @ComradeDoyIe, was suspended on Thursday for violating the platform’s terms of service. Mark Levin, a popular conservative radio host and ardent Trump supporter, echoed Mr. Doyle’s call for Republican state legislators to disregard the outcome of the voting. In a tweet on Thursday, he wrote: “REMINDER TO THE REPUBLICAN STATE LEGISLATURES, YOU HAVE THE FINAL SAY OVER THE CHOOSING OF ELECTORS, NOT ANY BOARD OF ELECTIONS, SECRETARY OF STATE, GOVERNOR, OR EVEN COURT. YOU HAVE THE FINAL SAY.”

Dozens of other Twitter accounts pushing the hashtag #StopTheSteal were created in October and the first few days of November. The use of freshly created social media accounts to amplify a message is a common feature of disinformation campaigns.

By Wednesday, the hashtag had quickly jumped from the hard-right of the internet to mainstream Republicans. The Philadelphia Republican Party picked up the hashtag in a tweet, tagging Eric Trump, the president’s son, and Mr. Giuliani, and urging them to “get ready to #StopTheSteal and deliver Pennsylvania” to the president. 

Eric Trump went even further. He posted and then quickly deleted a tweet using the hashtag on Thursday and asking, without evidence, why the F.B.I. and the Justice Department were not stepping to stop election fraud. Jeanine F. Pirro, the popular Fox News personality, tweeted a similar thought.

A day earlier, Eric Trump had posted a video purporting to show ballots that had been cast for his father in Virginia Beach, Va., being burned. City officials later said that the ballots were clearly samples and not real. But even before that, the video’s questionable provenance probably should have been a tipoff that it was fake: It came from a Twitter user who goes by the handle @Ninja_StuntZ and is connected to the troll-infested message board 8kun. 

Mr. Ninja — or is it Mr. StuntZ? — appears to spend his days selling 8kun-branded coffee. By Thursday morning, his Twitter account had been suspended and the video was no longer available.

The relentless messaging and noise appeared to drive the campaign’s legal strategy. On Thursday morning, with the president’s slim lead in the key state of Pennsylvania growing slimmer, Pam Bondi, the former attorney general of Florida, and Corey Lewandowski, a close political adviser, held a news conference amid dueling protests outside the Philadelphia convention center, the city’s main ballot-processing site.

Lining 12th Street and protected by police barricades were dozens of protesters supporting Black Lives Matter and Democrats’ call to “count every vote.” On the opposite corner along Arch Street were roughly two dozen Trump supporters, chanting back to “count every legal vote.”

Ms. Bondi entered through the back of a barricade and stood in the middle of the Trump supporters, holding up a printed-out court order permitting the Trump campaign poll watchers to get closer to observe the ballot counting.

But her speech was drowned out by protesters across the street, who were armed with a D.J. and a full P.A. system blasting “Party” by Beyoncé. The D.J., counting to 10 repeatedly, in rhythm, was the only audible voice during Ms. Bondi’s remarks. As she continued, he broke into a chant: “Count, Philly, Count.”





No.4 article:
Biden Pulls Ahead in Key States as Anxious Nation Awaits Winner

Joe Biden picked up votes in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Georgia and urged patience with the slow-moving vote count. President Trump appeared in the evening to break his silence, lying about “illegal” votes.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

Joseph R. Biden Jr. pulled into the lead in the critical states of Pennsylvania and Georgia on Friday as the slow-moving vote count in contested battleground states moved him closer to capturing 270 electoral votes and defeating President Trump.

As an anxious country waited to learn the winner, the two candidates emerged toward day’s end on Thursday to make remarks that were dramatically different in tone and content.

In a brief appearance before reporters in Wilmington, Del., Mr. Biden said he remained confident that he would ultimately prevail but did not lay claim to the White House.

“Democracy’s sometimes messy,” said Mr. Biden, who remained ahead in Arizona on Thursday night but lost some ground there. “It sometimes requires a little patience as well. But that patience has been rewarded now for more than 240 years with a system of governance that’s been the envy of the world.”

He urged calm and emphasized that “each ballot must be counted.”

Hours later, in a stunning appearance in the White House briefing room, Mr. Trump lied about the vote-counting underway in several states, conjuring up a conspiracy of “legal” and “illegal” ballots being tabulated and claiming without evidence that states were trying to deny him re-election.

“They’re trying to steal an election, they’re trying to rig an election,” the president said from the White House briefing room. He also baselessly suggested nefarious behavior in Philadelphia and Detroit, cities that he called “two of the most corrupt political places.”

Mr. Trump’s remarks, mostly read off notes, were at times more valedictory than defiant. Far from insisting that he would stay in power, he used much of his appearance to complain about pre-election polls, demonize the news media and try to put the best face on Tuesday’s results, trumpeting his party’s congressional gains. He did not take questions from reporters.

For all of his complaints, Mr. Trump has only himself and his own party to blame for the delayed vote count in a number of states.

State and local Republican officials refused to let localities tally mail-in votes before Tuesday in some states. And because of Mr. Trump’s monthslong attacks on mail ballots, more Democrats than Republicans voted in that fashion, which has allowed Mr. Biden to pick up the bulk of the votes arriving in the mail. 

In his speech, Mr. Trump expressed no concern about the protracted vote count in Arizona, a state where he has been cutting into Mr. Biden’s lead as more ballots are tabulated.

Republican leaders offered no immediate response to Mr.  Trump’s remarks, but a small group of maverick lawmakers in the party denounced his comments, seeking to reassure voters that there was no reason to believe the integrity of the election had been undermined.

Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois and a frequent critic of Mr. Trump, offered the sharpest rebuke, saying “this is getting insane” and demanding that the president stop “spreading debunked misinformation.”

Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey and an adviser to Mr. Trump, said on ABC that “we heard nothing today about any evidence,” adding of the president’s actions, “All it does is inflame without informing.”

Yet there were also Republican lawmakers who rushed to Mr. Trump’s defense, siding with him in falsely asserting that the vote counting was illegal and Democrats were trying to cheat. 

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, called Mr. Trump’s allegations that ballots were being mishandled in Pennsylvania “earth-shattering” and told Fox News’s Sean Hannity that he planned to donate $500,000 to the president’s legal defense fund.

“They are just trying to get an outcome — damn the law, damn the outcome,” Mr. Graham said of Democrats. 

Also on Fox News, Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House minority leader, said falsely that the president had “won this election,” and addressed viewers: “Everyone who’s listening, do not be quiet. Do not be silent about this. We cannot allow this to happen before our very eyes.” 



With the world watching to see if one of the most unusual presidencies in the country’s history was coming to an end, America’s patchwork of electoral laws created a confusing and angst-inducing day for both parties, to say nothing of millions of Americans eager for the campaign’s conclusion.

Mr. Biden’s advantage in Arizona, a state The Associated Press has already called for the former vice president, narrowed as thousands of votes were tabulated. But in Georgia and Pennsylvania, Mr. Trump saw his  lead evaporate as mail-in ballots were counted.

Until Mr. Trump’s remarks on Thursday night, he had not appeared in public since he used a middle-of-the-night appearance Wednesday to insist he had already won. But he has posted angry Twitter messages, and he continued to do so Thursday.

“All of the recent Biden claimed States will be legally challenged by us for Voter Fraud and State Election Fraud,” he said in one message, without elaborating on what precisely that would involve. “STOP THE COUNT!” he exclaimed in another tweet.

Rebuking the president, Twitter labeled some of the messages “disputed” and said they “might be misleading about an election or other civic process.”

In any event, stopping the count now would only ensure that Mr. Biden wins the presidency, because he is leading in Arizona and Nevada — states that together would give him 270 electoral votes.

The presidential contest was not the only tight race drawing attention. A key Georgia Senate race that could decide the majority in the chamber grew even closer as Senator David Perdue, a Republican, saw his vote share slip under 50 percent in his race against Jon Ossoff, a Democrat. If neither wins a majority, the race would head to a January runoff, setting up the prospect of a hotly contested battle for two Senate seats in Georgia. A runoff is already planned in the special election for the state’s other seat.

On Thursday, an array of Mr. Trump’s political surrogates fanned out to some of the contested states to rally his supporters. And the president’s lawyers filed lawsuits in several states questioning the integrity of the vote count in hopes of slowing down the process.

He suffered two legal setbacks on Thursday when judges in Georgia and Michigan ruled against his campaign. But Mr. Trump notched a minor victory in Pennsylvania when a state appellate court acceded to its request to force Philadelphia election officials to grant its election observers better access to areas where workers are counting ballots.

With the counting proceeding slowly in the West, much of the focus on Thursday fell on Pennsylvania, where a victory would deliver Mr. Biden the presidency no matter the results in the other states. The top election official in the state said on Thursday evening that counties were “still counting” and did not offer any timetable for when the tally would be complete.

By early Friday, Mr. Biden had overtaken Mr. Trump  as mail-in ballots were counted in the heavily Democratic cities and suburbs.

The two parties held dueling news conferences in Philadelphia early in the day, with Mr. Trump’s supporters insisting his lead would hold statewide and the city’s Democrats, led by former Representative Robert A. Brady, unveiling an analysis of the remaining vote count that concluded Mr. Biden would win Pennsylvania convincingly.

As Georgia’s absentee ballots were counted early Friday, particularly in Clayton County, Mr. Biden pulled ahead in the state with 1,097 more votes.

Mr. Biden’s late surge in this year’s count, thanks to his dominance in Atlanta, Savannah and the increasingly Democratic-friendly suburbs around both, transformed the competition in a traditionally Republican-leaning state into one of the closest contests in the nation.

Georgia’s Republican Party has said it plans to bring up to a dozen lawsuits in the state.

In Arizona, Mr. Biden’s lead was significantly less than it was on election night. There are over two hundred thousand ballots left to count, with many coming from Phoenix’s Maricopa County.

Officials in Maricopa said they would post another report on Friday morning.

“We’re plugging along and making it happen,” said Adrian Fontes, the Democrat who oversees elections in the county. 

The vote count in Maricopa has grown tense, however, since several armed protesters showed up at the county office Wednesday night. On Thursday afternoon, about 200 supporters of Mr. Trump also gathered in front of the headquarters of the Arizona Republican Party after a protest earlier in the day involving about 50 Trump supporters dissipated in front of City Hall in Phoenix.

Some in the crowd held signs reading “Don’t Steal Elections,” “Shame on Fox News” and “Recall Fontes.” (Fox News called Arizona for Mr. Biden on Tuesday night, inflaming Trump supporters.)

Mr. Biden led by just over 11,000 votes in Nevada, but local officials in Las Vegas announced Thursday that 51,000 ballots from Clark County there were being tallied and would be announced Friday. Mr. Biden was winning the county by about eight percentage points. If he wins the bulk of the new votes, it would make it almost impossible for Mr. Trump to take the state, because about 70 percent of Nevada’s voters live in Clark County.

As part of the effort to sow doubt on the state’s election, Mr. Trump’s Nevada state director sent a letter to supporters on Thursday asking them “to go on camera/on the record with the issues they faced voting this election” to “expose issues we are seeing at polling locations/clerks offices.”

For its part, publicly and privately, the Biden campaign spent much of Thursday trying to tamp down expectations about the certainty of results in individual states, even as his supporters were on edge when the margins turned out to be far closer than many had expected.

In a briefing with reporters, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, Mr. Biden’s campaign manager, acknowledged that his leads in Arizona and Nevada might tighten or otherwise fluctuate. It was a departure from her position the day earlier when she referred to a “historic victory in a place like Arizona,” though she still expressed optimism about victories in both states.

“We do expect, similar to Nevada, that some of the margin will continue to close today,” she said of Arizona, a state she has focused on for months. “The story of Arizona is one where Joe Biden is going to win, but it’s going to take us time and patience as we go through the counting.”

“The story of today,” she said at another point, “is going to be a very positive story for the vice president, but also one where folks are going to need to stay patient and stay calm.”





No.5 article:
A New Item on Your Medical Bill: The ‘Covid’ Fee

A surprise charge that can take advantage of vulnerable people and possibly violate consumer protection laws.

The New York Times is investigating the costs associated with testing and treatment for the coronavirus and how the pandemic is changing health care in America. You can read more about the project and submit your medical bills here.

When Michael Hambley got the call from his 87-year-old mother in July, he was sure there was a mistake. She told him that her assisted living facility, the one she paid for with her pension, was charging a one-time, $900 fee for masks, cleaning supplies and meal delivery.

Jennifer Koeckhoven had a similar experience in June: a $60 personal protective equipment charge — tacked onto her mother’s ambulance bill — that went uncovered by insurance.

“She was already wearing a mask,” said Ms. Koeckhoven, who noted that the one-mile ambulance ride already cost $1,759 before the fee.

In New York City, Zariely Garcia was surprised to see a $45 fee tacked onto a dental cleaning in July. It was billed to her directly, not her health plan, a practice that state regulators outlawed the next month as a violation of consumer protection laws.

The coronavirus pandemic has made the practice of health care more costly as providers must wear protective gear and sanitize equipment more often, even as they face declining revenue. Two groups of providers have been particularly hard hit. Dentists have lost billions since patients began postponing nonurgent dental care this spring. And assisted living facilities, grappling with lower overall demand, have also been forced to admit fewer residents to help stop the spread of infection.

To address this financial shortfall, some health providers are turning directly to patients. Surprise “Covid” and “PPE” fees have turned up across the country, in bills examined by The New York Times.

“It’s a complicated answer, who pays for this,” says Scott Manaker, a physician who is in charge of the American Medical Association’s practice expense committee. “You look around the community and see additional costs being imposed right and left because of Covid-19. Barber shops, pedicures and restaurants all have additional charges. It would be an undue burden to ask the medical community to bear this alone.”

Some of these fees — when millions of Americans are reeling after losing jobs and the health insurance that came with it — have drawn the attention of state attorneys general who say that charging patients directly can take advantage of vulnerable consumers or violate health insurance contracts and consumer protection laws. The new charges range from a couple of dollars to nearly $1,000.

“The cynical view is that some see this as an opportunity: Everyone understands something unusual is going on, and most customers are ready to embrace the idea they will need to bear some expense,” said Darrin Fowler, an assistant attorney general in Michigan who has been investigating coronavirus fees in assisted living facilities. “Unfortunately, in every setting there are a percentage of folks who will take advantage of that situation.”

The charges appear to be especially prevalent in dental offices, where industry guidelines suggest that fees denied by insurers are “typically billable to patients.” In the spring, millions of dental patients canceled planned cleanings, and offices were shuttered with new stay-at-home orders. When dental workers came back to their offices, they used heavy protective equipment, including N-95 masks and face shields.

The American Dental Association has urged dental health plans to begin reimbursing a new fee to cover the expense. Some health plans have done so, but others haven’t, which can leave patients paying new bills.

Times readers shared new protective equipment fees from dentist offices that ranged from $12 to $45. Insurance companies typically reimburse less, usually between $7 and $10.

Sabine Reichert decided to forgo a dental cleaning after learning she would be charged a $16 protective equipment fee. She would need to submit the claim to her insurance and, because of her deductible, would probably be responsible for the full charge.

“I thought it was ludicrous,” she said. “We have a high deductible, and this year we are saying no to the things we don’t really need.”

Carrie McGurk, a retired lawyer in Boca Raton, Fla., was surprised to see a $15 charge tacked onto her cleaning bill in July. She said she was not informed of the fee in advance, and noticed it only after requesting an itemized bill.

“When I was putting it away in my file, I saw ‘Covid charge’ and thought, Jeez, you could have at least told me,” she said. Because she does not carry dental insurance, she had to pay the full charge.

The American Dental Association “strongly encourages” dentists to disclose any fees to patients, saying the decision to charge the fee is an “individual dental practice business decision.”

Regulators in Connecticut, Maryland and New York have received numerous consumer complaints about new fees at dentist offices. All three states have warned that state and federal laws do not allow in-network health providers to tack on new fees.

“We’re seeing complaints of all types,” said William Tong, Connecticut’s attorney general. “All the arguments in favor of billing patients are not at all compelling to me.”

Much like nursing homes, assisted living facilities have been pummeled by the pandemic. To protect residents and contain the virus’s spread, they have bulked up their sanitation, increased staff pay and their testing, and invested in masks and other protective equipment.

Occupancy levels are at a record low, according to Mark Parkinson, the chief executive of the American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living, the largest industry trade group, representing about 4,000 centers. “Revenue is at record lows, and expenses are at record highs,” Mr. Parkinson said, adding that the industry, unlike other heath care sectors, received federal assistance only in September.

Most residents at assisted living facilities pay out of pocket, since federal programs like Medicare typically don’t cover the stays. Unburdened by federal oversight or existing insurance contracts, assisted living facilities have wide latitude to charge residents a variety of fees. Some have raised rents, while others have charged residents to cover rising cleaning costs and masks.

“There is a real desire to not have to pass on any of these costs,” Mr. Parkinson said.

Still, in more than a dozen states, ombudsmen, who advocate on behalf of residents in long-term care facilities, said in interviews they worried such fees were only a fraction of what’s being tacked into bills and slipped into monthly rent statements. With nursing homes and assisted living facilities restricting visitors, there is less scrutiny of their practices. And some residents may assume that the cost is theirs to bear.

Mr. Hambley, whose mother faced the $900 charge at her assisted living facility in Portage, Mich., had a particular reason to be skeptical: He works in the industry, running a continuous care facility in another state.

Some of the extra charges, including an $11 daily lunch fee, stood out, especially because his mother had been complaining about the quality of lunches since the start of the pandemic. “It seemed like this was an opportunity to take advantage of a population that is already vulnerable,” Mr. Hambley said. “They have no visits, no engagement. And on top of that they are scared.”

After Mr. Hambley complained to state regulators, the facility rescinded the fee. He asked that the place not be named because his mother still resides there, and he did not want to affect the quality of her care.

The charges may soon be coming to more doctor’s offices. Last month, the American Medical Association lobbied Medicare to begin paying for a new billing code that covers increased protective costs.

The association proposed in September that Medicare reimburse $6.57 for costs associated with protective equipment and new procedures for each visit, a fee significantly less than what some patients have already faced.

When Medicare chooses to reimburse a new medical service, private insurers have traditionally followed the public insurer’s lead — often paying two or three times more. The charge could also turn up on bills sent to uninsured Americans, whose ranks have swelled during the pandemic.

A Medicare spokeswoman declined to comment on whether the new fee would be approved, but said the agency had already “provided additional funding to support providers responding to the Covid-19 pandemic.” That includes billions distributed to providers through the Provider Relief Fund, and a 20 percent increase in Medicare reimbursements for hospitalized Covid-19 patients.

For now, those patients hit with coronavirus fees say the costs, though often relatively small, add up, especially at a time of such economic uncertainty.

“It didn’t break me, but they should have told me before it happened,” Ms. McGurk said. “I didn’t need to have my teeth cleaned just then. I could have waited until it was necessary.”





No.6 article:
N.Y.P.D. Anti-Harassment Official Accused of Racist Rants

The official was relieved of his command after City Council investigators amassed evidence that he posted vitriolic messages online under the name “Clouseau.”

For more than 20 years, an online chat board called the Rant has been the place where New York City police officers have gone in secret to complain about their jobs — not infrequently using blatantly racist and misogynistic language.

But even by the website’s vitriolic standards, scores of recent posts by a user who calls himself “Clouseau” have been especially disturbing.

Between the summer of 2019 and earlier this fall, “Clouseau” posted hundreds of messages on the Rant, many of which attacked Black people, Puerto Ricans, Hasidic Jews and others with an unbridled sense of animus.

He referred to former President Barack Obama as a “Muslim savage” and called the Bronx district attorney, Darcel D. Clark, who is Black, “a gap-toothed wildebeest.”

Now, city investigators say they have amassed evidence that “Clouseau” is a high-ranking police official. And not just any high-ranking official — the one assigned to an office responsible for combating workplace harassment in the Police Department.

The inquiry was conducted by the City Council’s Oversight and Investigations Division, which put together its findings in a 13-page draft report that was obtained by The New York Times. The division is overseen by Councilman Ritchie Torres.

The police official, Deputy Inspector James F. Kobel, adamantly denied that he had written the racist messages. The posts have been taken down since the Council began its inquiry, and the profile deleted.

“I am unfamiliar with any of these posts,” he said in a brief interview. “I’m unfamiliar with ‘Clouseau.’ I don’t post on the Rant.”

He declined to comment further.

After The Times asked the Police Department about the posts last month, its Internal Affairs Bureau opened an investigation.

Inspector Kobel denied the allegations to his superiors, a police official said. But on Thursday, he was relieved of his command of the Equal Employment Opportunity Division and placed on modified assignment pending completion of the department inquiry.

“That is a drastic step, but we thought it was the appropriate step due to the nature of his given assignment as well as the allegations and what we have learned thus far,” the police commissioner, Dermot F. Shea, said. He added that the comments posted by “Clouseau” were “utterly disgusting.”

Richard Esposito, the deputy commissioner of public information, noted that the investigation, which began three weeks ago, had not yet been completed and that substantial work remained to be done.

But Mr. Esposito said “the evidence at this stage points at the police executive,” referring to Inspector Kobel.

“Deputy Inspector Kobel has cooperated with the investigation,” he said, “but given the nature of the allegations and the sensitivity of his assignment, the decision has been made to remove him while the investigation proceeds.”

At the outset of the Internal Affairs inquiry, Inspector Kobel voluntarily provided investigators with his personal cellphone and computer, and they viewed the postings as not in keeping with his public persona and reputation, the police official said. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open investigation.

That assessment echoed the appraisals of several current and former co-workers, who said in interviews with The Times that the inspector was quiet, low-key and strait-laced.

Police investigators considered the possibility that Inspector Kobel had been framed by someone who had purposely peppered the posts with details about his life — many, if not most, of which could be found through research on the internet.

But the inquiry turned up more evidence that pointed to Inspector Kobel, the police official said, including an email on his personal computer from the Rant message board that acknowledged his screen name was “Clouseau.”

Police investigators also found on his personal cellphone a copy of the digital photo the anonymous writer used on the message board as an avatar — a picture of the Peter Sellers character Inspector Clouseau from the film “The Pink Panther.”

Inspector Kobel, 50, has served in several senior positions on the force during his nearly 30-year career and currently oversees a unit responsible “for the prevention and investigation of employment and harassment claims,” according to its website.

Councilman Torres said his investigative team had compared posts from the Rant with public information and determined that Inspector Kobel and “Clouseau” share “a number of specific professional and personal characteristics.”

Mr. Torres said he was “as confident as I could be” that the two people were the same man because the commonalities were “too coincidental to be a coincidence.”

The head of the Captains Endowment Association, the union that represents Inspector Kobel, defended him in a statement, calling him “a dedicated professional” and suggesting that he had been framed by someone unhappy with the outcome of one of the thousands of internal harassment investigations he had conducted in recent years.

“Clearly, he has angered some people along the way,” said the union leader, Capt. Chris Monahan. “In any event, he looks forward to being fully exonerated when all the facts come out.”

The council’s interest in “Clouseau” began this summer, he said, when an investigator on Mr. Torres’s staff was casually scrolling through the Rant after seeing it mentioned in New York Magazine.

The posts by “Clouseau” caught the investigator’s attention because they were filled with “shocking invective,” Mr. Torres said. “Clouseau” had also publicly revealed substantial biographical details about himself, leaving a trail for the investigator to follow.

On July 1, 2019, for example, “Clouseau” left a message describing how he had joined the Police Department on June 30, 1992, recalling it as an “unbelievably hot” night. Using city payroll records, the investigator determined that Inspector Kobel had joined the force on that date.

In January, “Clouseau” wrote that he had once worked “in Housing” under “JJ,” whom he referred to with an obscene slur for women. According to Inspector Kobel’s LinkedIn page, he too served in the department’s Housing Bureau — from 2012 to 2014 at a time when it run by a female chief, Joanne Jaffe.

There was more.

On Oct. 29, 2019, “Clouseau” left a long post on the Rant recalling in detail how he had proposed to his wife on Dec. 10, 2005. Mr. Torres’s investigator later found a gossip article from The New York Post, dated Dec. 15, 2005, offering congratulations to a woman on her engagement to “Jimmy Kobel.”

Tracking down a Facebook page for the woman, the investigator determined that she was in fact married to Inspector Kobel. Property records showed that the couple owned a home together on Long Island.

In yet another connection, “Clouseau” once posted on the Rant that his mother died on Feb. 21, 2019, “after suffering for a few years from dementia.”

The investigators tracked down an obituary for Inspector Kobel’s mother, Elizabeth Frances Kobel, who died on the same date. The obituary asked that donations be made in Ms. Kobel’s memory to the Long Island Alzheimer’s Foundation.

The Times has independently verified these and other connections.

Mr. Torres, an Afro-Latino Democrat from the Bronx who won a seat in Congress on Tuesday, prepared his report at a highly charged moment, when people across the country were questioning how the police have traditionally dealt with Black and Hispanic communities.

Since the death of George Floyd this spring at the hands of the police in Minneapolis, hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers have taken to the streets to protest police brutality and what they have described as the systemic racism inside the department in New York.

Mr. Torres, who is openly gay, has also been on the receiving end of personal attacks from some leaders of the city’s police unions.

The report, which was documented by extensive footnotes and included a 26-page appendix of supporting materials, describes a series of posts by “Clouseau” reaching back to at least summer 2019.

In one, the writer called Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Somali-American Democrat, a “filthy animal.” Another post labeled Dante de Blasio, the Black son of Mayor Bill de Blasio, as a “brillohead.”

White liberals have also provoked outbursts from “Clouseau.”

When City Council Speaker Corey Johnson, who is white and gay, demanded an investigation into the department’s use of pedestrian stops, “Clouseau” wrote, “Perhaps we should all take a step back from Stop, Question, and Maybe Frisk, until dear old Corey ends up the victim of a crime in one of the local bathhouses.”

Inspector Kobel, reached by text message and given a second opportunity to respond to the report, once again denied being “Clouseau.”

“Nonetheless, despite my denial, it will likely end my career,” he wrote. “Where do I go to get my reputation back?”





No.7 article:
ESPN to Lay Off 300 Employees

The cuts will affect most divisions across the company, but are especially concentrated in broadcast production.

ESPN will lay off 300 employees, about 6 percent of its worldwide staff, and let 200 open positions go unfilled, Jimmy Pitaro, the network’s chairman, told employees in a memo on Thursday.

“Prior to the pandemic, we had been deeply engaged in strategizing how best to position ESPN for future success amidst tremendous disruption in how fans consume sports,” Pitaro wrote in a memo that was obtained by The New York Times. “The pandemic’s significant impact on our business clearly accelerated those forward-looking discussions.”

The cuts will affect most divisions across the company, but are concentrated in broadcast production.

Like many companies, ESPN’s business has been ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic. ESPN will pay more than $7 billion for the rights to show live sports in 2020, the lifeblood of ESPN’s nine cable channels. But for four months this year, from March to July, there were almost no games to show. Even with the resumption of most professional and college sports, ESPN has faced low viewership and a sluggish advertising market.

This is the latest in a string of layoffs for ESPN in recent years. About 300 employees were laid off in 2015, and about 250 were laid off in two waves in 2017, including a number of high-profile on-air employees.

The layoffs come as ESPN continues to confront the long-term decline of pay television. The number of households paying for television peaked at 100.5 million in 2014; today that number is close to 80 million. While the timing and severity of the layoffs were driven by the pandemic, they are also a further reorientation toward a fully digital and streaming future.

“Placing resources in support of our direct-to-consumer business strategy, digital, and, of course, continued innovative television experiences, is more critical than ever,” Pitaro wrote in the memo. In 2018, ESPN started ESPN+, a sports streaming service that costs $5 a month. At the end of June, ESPN+ had 8.5 million subscribers.

Eighty percent of ESPN is owned by Disney. Sometimes its poor financial results can be buoyed by gains at Disney’s theme parks or movie divisions, or vice versa. But the pandemic has devastated nearly all of Disney’s business lines.

Its theme parks worldwide were closed for months. Disneyland in California remains closed, while Disneyland Paris closed again as France entered a new lockdown. Few Americans are visiting movie theaters, wrecking Disney’s planned release schedule, and the production of movies and television shows has crawled to a standstill. Disney Cruise Line has suspended its cruises through the end of the year.

In September, Disney laid off 28,000 employees, mostly at its two American theme parks. It announced a loss of $4.72 billion in the most recent quarter, covering April through June. Earnings in the company’s cable networks division, which is made up mostly of ESPN but also includes properties like the Disney Channel, were down 10 percent.

Before the layoffs, ESPN had taken steps to reduce employee expenses. Some employees had been furloughed, and executives and highly-paid employees were asked to take pay cuts in recent months.

While ESPN’s highest profile employees won’t be directly affected by these cuts, some on-air talent very likely will not have their contracts renewed when they expire, and others might see less lucrative contract extensions.

According to a number of talent agents who insisted on anonymity so as not to harm their relationship with ESPN, the company is playing hardball in negotiations. In recent months, some on-air employees have signed extensions with a base salary of less than $50,000 and bonuses for each on-air appearance, when previously they had larger contracts that guaranteed a certain number of on-air appearances.

During the pandemic, ESPN has broadcast more games remotely, with a limited number of personnel on-site and most functions done from one of the company’s broadcasting hubs in Bristol, Conn.; Los Angeles; New York; or Charlotte, N.C. This saves travel and employee costs, and at least some of the increased remote production is expected to continue even after ESPN believes it is safe to fully travel again.

As the company cuts costs, it is looking toward possibly increasing its already outsized rights fee commitment. The N.F.L.’s contracts with television networks expire in 2021 and 2022, and ESPN is widely expected not only to bid to retain its “Monday Night Football” package, but also to bid on a package of Sunday games and to enter the Super Bowl rotation. ESPN’s broadcast contract with Major League Baseball expires soon, and it could look to bid on rights to N.H.L. games next year.

ESPN is just the latest sports media property to undergo layoffs. Fox Sports laid off 50 to 100 employees over the summer, NBC Sports laid off around 75 employees at its regional sports networks and The Athletic laid off 46 people.





No.8 article:
Bob Baffert at the Breeders’ Cup: Awash in Favorites and Suspicion

Horse racing is under scrutiny again, as its top American trainer comes to the season’s final event with a record of four failed drug tests in the past six months.

In 1976, a part-time college student and fledgling trainer named Bob Baffert gave one of his horses a banned substance — partly out of ignorance, he wrote in an autobiography, and partly out of desperation to win. After the horse tested positive for morphine, Baffert was summoned to Sacramento by California regulators.

“They told me what I did was very serious, but I seemed like a nice kid,” Baffert wrote in “Baffert: Dirt Road to the Derby,” his 1999 autobiography. “So they suspended me for a year, and made it retroactive. I had already done six months and I really didn’t care. I was going to school and wasn’t training anyway. I just wanted to get all this over with.”

Forty-four years later, Baffert is the most decorated trainer in American horse racing. Like Lance Armstrong in cycling, he has dominated his sport, winning the Kentucky Derby six times and sweeping the Triple Crown twice in the last five years. And like Armstrong, Baffert has gained the enmity of rivals who believe that he has persistently cheated, suspicions fueled by the 29 drug tests failed by his horses over the four decades, including four in the past six months.

The cases took months, if not years, to adjudicate and were met mostly with modest fines or brief suspensions, as Baffert asserted he did nothing wrong and blamed the results on environmental contamination or human error.

He declined to be interviewed, but on Wednesday, facing mounting criticism, he apologized for the violations and promised to be more vigilant in the future.

“I am very aware of the several incidents this year concerning my horses and the impact it has had on my family, horse racing, and me,” Baffert said in a statement. “I want to have a positive influence on the sport of horse racing. Horses have been my life and I owe everything to them and the tremendous sport in which I have been so fortunate to be involved.”

Still, ahead of the season-ending Breeders’ Cup World Championships this weekend, horse racing’s leaders again must defend a culture in which performance-enhancing and painkilling drugs, combined with lax state regulations, undermine the credibility of the sport, one of America’s oldest, and threaten the well-being of the animals who define it.

Baffert will saddle a powerful contingent of high-priced horses from some of the world’s deepest pocketed owners at the Breeders’ Cup, to be held at Keeneland Race Course in Lexington, Ky. Among them is Gamine, considered one of the favorites to win the $1 million Filly &amp; Mare Sprint race. She has failed two recent drug tests — one in May and another after finishing third in the prestigious Kentucky Oaks in September.

In the $6 million Classic, the premier race of the Breeders’ Cup, Baffert will send out the three favorites, including Maximum Security, whose previous trainer, Jason Servis, was one of 30 people involved in the sport who was indicted this spring by federal prosecutors on doping charges.

The leaders of the Breeders’ Cup, a Super Bowl of sorts for horseplayers, have been loud proponents of drug-free racing, but they have declined to ban Baffert from the event.

In fact, seven of its 14 board members employ Baffert as their trainer. Two of them, Gavin Murphy of SF Bloodstock, which is associated with the billionaire George Soros, and Elliott Walden, president of WinStar Farm, will send out a horse named Improbable as the favorite in the Classic.

None of the seven responded to phone calls and emails to comment on their business arrangements with Baffert.

“While these most recent charges are being adjudicated, Bob Baffert is not under suspension in any jurisdiction in the U.S., is not in violation of any Kentucky regulations or any existing Breeders’ Cup rules, and, as of now, is not prohibited from participating in the 2020 Breeders’ Cup World Championships,” Drew Fleming, the organization’s president and chief executive officer, said in a statement.

The failure to act has angered some prominent players in the sport.

Until owners  stop sending him horses “they will continue to be part of the problem. It’s a joke that isn’t funny,” tweeted Daisy Phipps Pulito, whose family has been among the most distinguished breeders and owners in the sport for generations.

In 2011, another well-known trainer, Rick Dutrow, who won the 2008 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes with Big Brown, was punished for doping violations similar to Baffert’s. He was banned from racing in the United States for 10 years.

Ed Martin, the president of the Association of Racing Commissioners International, had asked New York regulators to review Dutrow’s license. “How many so-called honest mistakes can one have,” he wrote to the regulators, “before you question whether there has been a total disregard for adherence to the rules?”

Some of the test results have come after prominent finishes.

The Baffert horse Merneith finished second in a race near San Diego on July 25 and was found to have excessive amounts of Dextrorphan in her blood or urine after the race. Baffert said a member of his staff was sick with Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, and was taking cough syrup that contained Dextrorphan, though he did not offer an explanation for how it got in the horse.

In May, Gamine and a colt named Charlatan, who won a division of the Arkansas Derby, tested positive for lidocaine, a numbing agent. Baffert, who was suspended for 15 days by Arkansas regulators, said his assistant was wearing a pain patch for a bad back and had inadvertently contaminated the horses.

In Kentucky, Gamine tested positive for betamethasone, a corticosteroid injected into joints to reduce pain and swelling. If the test result is upheld, the owners of Gamine will have to forfeit the $120,000 she earned for finishing third in the Oaks.

The day after Gamine failed the Oaks drug test, Baffert won his sixth Derby, with the colt Authentic, and tied Ben Jones for the most victories in the race.

Many in the sport believe that horse racing can no longer make promises to do better or police itself if it is to survive.

“The overmedication of racehorses is cultural and needs a course correction,” Jim Gagliano, the president and chief operating officer of the Jockey Club, the oldest horse-racing organization in the U.S., said recently.

To that end, the Jockey Club and others in the industry have supported the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act, a federal bill that would give the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which revealed Armstrong’s cheating and issued a lifetime suspension in 2012, the authority to create a regulatory plan with meaningful penalties to clean up the sport. It has been approved by the House of Representatives and has bipartisan support in the Senate, where it is expected to come to a vote within the next few weeks.

The ultimate goal of the legislation is to establish uniform national regulations and independent oversight in a sport that is fractiously governed and notorious for conflicts of interests.

Last year, The New York Times reported that Justify — also trained by Baffert — had failed a drug test after winning the 2018 Santa Anita Derby in Southern California. The rule at the time required that Justify be disqualified, forfeiting both his prize money and preventing his entry into the Kentucky Derby a month later.

The California Horse Racing Board’s chairman at the time, Chuck Winner, had previously employed Baffert to train his horses. Justify’s failed test was investigated for four months, allowing the horse to keep competing long enough to win not only the Derby, but also the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes to become the 13th Triple Crown winner.

In August 2018, after Justify’s breeding rights had been sold for $60 million, the racing board ruled that the failed test was the result of environmental contamination and disposed of the inquiry altogether during a rare closed-door session.

Last week, as part of settlement of a lawsuit brought against the racing board by the owner of the second-place finisher, Bolt d’Oro, California regulators heard testimony that will help them decide whether to erase Justify’s Santa Anita Derby win and force his owners to forfeit the $600,000 first-place check.

“What makes this case remarkable is how a cabal within the C.H.R.B. sought to ensure the secrecy of the positive test by treating Bob differently from other trainers,” said Carlo Fisco, a lawyer for Mick Ruis, Bolt d’Oro’s trainer. “No trainer, no matter how successful, should be treated differently.”

In the meantime, said Barry Irwin, founder of the Team Valor International stable, the sport suffers. His partnership captured the 2011 Kentucky Derby with Animal Kingdom and has won other prestigious races across the country. Now, however, Team Valor is racing predominantly in Europe.

“The only way I come back is if I see that the legislation bears fruit,” Irwin said in an interview. “Our goal is to win the biggest races. What ran me out is that they have become difficult to win because of the cheaters.”





No.9 article:
Quotation of the Day: Man Who Led G.O.P. Through 2000 Recount Says Finish 2020 Count

“We never said don’t count the votes. That’s a very hard decision to defend in a democracy.”

JAMES BAKER, the former secretary of state who oversaw the Republican legal and political team in the 2000 Florida recount and voted for President Trump this year, on why he opposed the White House’s efforts to halt the initial tabulation of ballots.





No.10 article:
Cutting Greenhouse Gases From Food Production Is Urgent, Scientists Say

Efforts to limit global warming often focus on emissions from fossil fuels, but food is crucial, too, according to new research.

Rising greenhouse gas emissions from worldwide food production will make it extremely difficult to limit global warming to the targets set in the Paris climate agreement, even if emissions from fossil-fuel burning were halted immediately, scientists reported Thursday.

But they said that meeting one of the targets, limiting overall warming this century to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or about 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, could be achieved through “rapid and ambitious” changes to the global food system over the next several decades, including adopting plant-rich diets, increasing crop yields and reducing food waste.

“If we’re trying to meet the 1.5-degree Celsius target there is no single silver bullet that is going to get us there,” said Michael Clark, a researcher at the Nuffield Department of Population Health at the University of Oxford in England and the lead author of the new research, an analysis of the climate effects of global food production published in the journal Science. “But together all of them will.”

Meeting the 2-degree Celsius target would be easier, Dr. Clark said. But in both cases, he added, the analysis is based on immediately reaching “net zero” emissions from the burning of fossil fuels for electricity, transportation and industry. Although countries have pledged to reduce them, current fossil-fuel emissions are nowhere near zero, and once they are factored in, he said, “any food transition probably needs to be larger and faster.”

Food production results in emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other planet-warming gases in many ways, including land clearing and deforestation for agriculture and grazing, digestion by cattle and other livestock, production and use of fertilizers and the cultivation of rice in flooded paddies. Overall emissions are equivalent to about 16 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide a year, or about 30 percent of total global emissions.

While the world tends to focus on reducing emissions from fossil-fuel burning, the new study shows cutting emissions from food is crucial, too, the researchers said.

“Food systems are sort of the dark horse of climate change,” said Jason Hill, senior author of the paper and a professor at the University of Minnesota.

The researchers forecast how emissions would change in coming decades as the world population grows, diets and consumption patterns change as some countries become more affluent, and crop yields increase. They found that food-related emissions alone would quite likely result in the world exceeding the 1.5 degree Celsius limit in 30 to 40 years. Food emissions alone would bring the world close to the 2-degree limit by 2100.

Brent Loken, the global lead food scientist for the World Wildlife Fund, who was not involved in the research, said the study was “one more piece of evidence that supports what many people are saying,” that climate goals cannot be reached without changes in the food system.

“It’s really less about where food system is today, and more about where it’s heading,” he said.

Analyses in recent years have pointed to the need to alter diets and make other changes in the food system both to improve human health and make the system more sustainable. Dr. Loken, for example, was a co-author of a report by the EAT-Lancet Commission, an international group of scientists, that recommended a 50 percent reduction in global consumption of red meat and some other foods by 2050.

Dr. Loken said that without changes, food emissions were expected to double by 2050. “And the wiggle room to meet the Paris limits is so small,” he said.

Dr. Hill said that the study did not consider potential shifts like the entire world population adopting a vegan diet. “We wanted to present the ones that were realistic goals,” he said. “A plant-rich diet is a realistic goal. We’re not saying in this paper to hit these targets we have to give up animal products. But there need to be some dietary shifts toward the healthier diets.”

Dr. Clark said that he was optimistic that dietary shifts and other changes in the food system could be made in time to have an effect on global warming. He and others are currently working on determining what policies and behavioral changes it may be possible to implement.

“Maybe it’s a combination of nudges at grocery stores, and top-down policies from governments,” he said. “It could be very bureaucratic or individualistic.”

“There are so many different ways we can do this,” Dr. Clark added. “Every person has a role to play, every corporation as well. Through collective action and political will we can actually do this pretty rapidly.”





No.11 article:
The Unforeseen Threats to the 2020 Election: Hand Sanitizer and Bad Plumbing

In a year when armed groups or interference by foreign governments were considered a threat at the polls, some holdups were the result of everyday municipal malfunctions.

[Cheers erupt on New York City streets after President-elect Joe Biden’s victory is declared.]

Poll workers in Derry, N.H., learned the hard way earlier this year that hand sanitizer and paper ballots do not mix. So on Election Day, they carefully repositioned the gallon tubs of sanitizer from the entrance of their polling place to the exit, hoping to keep voters from gunking up their ballots.

But their effort could not stop the woman who brought her own bottle of hand sanitizer and applied a heavy lather as she voted, dampening the paper so much that the AccuVote ballot reader refused to accept it. When the soggy ballot was finally yanked out of the jammed contraption, there was no mistaking what had happened: Everyone could see the voter’s wet handprint on the paper.

“I don’t know what it is about hand sanitizer, maybe it’s the alcoholic content, but if you ever tried to pour hand sanitizer on nicer paper, it almost — I don’t want to say it disintegrates, but it makes it weaker,” said Tina Guilford, the top election official in Derry, who has come to learn how to process those accidentally sanitized ballots.

In a year when interference by foreign governments, armed protesters and voter suppression were considered the main threats at the polls, some Election Day holdups were the result of everyday municipal malfunctions.

Those setbacks highlight the decentralized nature of national elections, which rely on hundreds of thousands of everyday people to work the polls. And they bring attention to what some advocates have been urging for years: the need for better basic infrastructure in some voting locations, including new polling places to reduce crowding and improved systems to register online or vote by mail.

Lawrence Norden, the director of the election reform program at New York University’s Brennan Center for Justice, said election officials seemed better prepared this year, in part because of the microscope the coronavirus pandemic and fears of meddling placed over the 2020 election. Congress also sent $400 million to the states as part of the economic stimulus bill signed by President Trump in March to help them make adjustments for safe elections, although some Democrats said at the time that more money was needed.

“There’s no question that our election infrastructure is chronically underfunded,” Mr. Norden said, although he noted that more money, private and public, had flowed to election planning in recent years.

In the 2018 midterm elections, voters cast ballots at about 230,871 polling places, where more than 637,000 poll workers — two-thirds of whom were older than 60 — signed them in, guided them to their ballots and counted their votes. That patchwork of election districts and poll workers makes mishaps impossible to avoid, experts said, but can also keep an incident at one polling place from affecting a broader region.

“The fact that we do fundamentally run elections by volunteer citizens in their local communities, that keeps a minor or even a major problem happening in one place from bringing down our democracy,” said Maggie Toulouse Oliver, the New Mexico secretary of state and president of the National Association of Secretaries of State.

This week saw a variety of such small-scale interruptions. In Atlanta, the culprit was leaky plumbing. Inside the arena where the Atlanta Hawks play basketball — converted into a polling place — the early-morning discovery that a burst pipe was leaking water into a room with absentee ballots delayed the count by a couple of hours. An arena staff member quickly fixed the leak, and none of the ballots were damaged, officials said.

Several polling places in Louisiana were running on generators after lingering power failures caused by Hurricane Zeta, which led to a feud between local and state officials over who was responsible for sending the generators to election sites. Officials ultimately moved two polling locations to a nearby middle school, and there were no serious delays.

In Hidalgo County in South Texas, just across the border from Mexico, it was a technical glitch. New laptops that had been distributed to polling sites ahead of Election Day to help accommodate the region’s record-breaking turnout did not work, causing delays of up to 90 minutes on Tuesday morning.

“They were not allowing the software program to open up to check in voters,” Yvonne Ramon, the county elections administrator, said. “And because they were scattered throughout the county, my field service technicians took off to the nearest locations. We’re a large county, so going from location to location is not an easy thing.”

Ms. Ramon noted that hiccups with new technology were not unusual. But the county kept polling places open an additional hour on Tuesday night to make up for the earlier delays, and everyone who had come out to cast a ballot was ultimately able to do so, she said.

In the battleground state of Wisconsin, the last few hundred votes went unreported for several hours because the Richland County clerk could not reach the clerk in the town of Willow, who had said she felt sick and then could not be reached, according to The Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel. Willow’s 274 votes were eventually reported. In Green Bay, the count of absentee votes was briefly delayed while an election official ran over to City Hall to get more ink for the vote-counting machines.

Poll workers face unexpected glitches every year, but warnings about distorted tallies or delayed counts made voters and observers more on edge than usual about any oddities. None of the complications this week led to serious problems, elections officials said. Some, like the hand sanitizer incident, were the result of an election severely altered by coronavirus precautions.

Until this year, “Hand sanitizer was never a thing at a polling place,” said Ms. Guilford, the official in Derry, where just over 18,000 people voted. The ballot that jammed the machine was ultimately hand counted, and the ballot reader was taken out of service, she said.

Hand sanitizer had tripped up other ballot machines in New Hampshire earlier this year, and on Tuesday in Iowa, requiring one of the machines to be fixed.

Daniel Healey, the town clerk in Derry, said election officials had done what they could to keep it from happening again, but that they could not stop everything.

“There was way less hand sanitizer this time,” he said, but some people brought their own. “There’s no way to stop it entirely.”





No.12 article:
We Waited in Vain for a Repudiation That Never Came

Trump may well end up losing to Biden, but Trumpism remains a viable political strategy.

The liberal hope for the 2020 presidential election was a decisive repudiation of Donald Trump and the Republican Party. This is no longer on the table. A Joe Biden win, if it happens, will be as narrow an Electoral College win as Trump’s was in 2016. Biden has won the national popular vote — which matters for popular legitimacy, even if it doesn’t weigh on the outcome — but Trump outperformed his job approval, winning more total votes than any Republican presidential nominee in history.

In spite of everything, the president expanded his support, most likely saving the Republican Senate majority in the process. A Trump loss is still possible — perhaps even probable, since Biden holds a lead in states totaling 270 electoral votes — but there’s every reason to think Trumpism will survive as a viable strategy for winning national elections.

And what is Trumpism? It is a performance, or rather, a series of performances.

It is a performance of nationalism, one that triangulates between open chauvinism in favor of the dominant ethnic group and narrow appeals to inclusion, with the promise of material gain for anyone who joins his coalition. It is a performance, on the same score, of success, projecting an image of wealth and power and urging the public to embrace it as its own — a version of “The Apprentice” in which the contestants are the American people. It is also the performance of an aggressive and aggrieved masculinity centered on the bullying and domination of others.

Even without policy to match the populist persona — the Trump administration has been as generous to the wealthy and connected as it has been stingy with the poor and the working class — Trumpism appeals to tens of millions of voters, from the large majority of white Americans to many people in traditionally Democratic constituencies.

That, if anything, is the surprise of this election. Although it is still too early to make any definitive statement about the shape of the electorate (broad white support for Trump notwithstanding), it is clear that the president made modest inroads with Black and Hispanic voters, especially men. This is most apparent in the states of Florida, Georgia and Texas, where Trump outperformed his 2016 totals in several areas where Hispanic voters make up a majority.

We don’t yet know why Trump made those gains — although the aforementioned performances, which figured prominently in his outreach to those groups, may have something to do with it — but this shift is a useful reminder that politics does not move along a linear path. For all of our data, the political world is still a fundamentally unpredictable place.

A decade ago, for example, Democrats believed that demographic change — the shift from a “majority white” country to a “majority minority” one — would give the party an almost unbreakable lock on national politics; that a growing population of Asian and Hispanic Americans would inevitably redound to liberal benefit. At the time, I wrote that this was unlikely, that while it was a seductive theory, there was not much evidence to support the vision of an enduring Democratic majority. Racial and ethnic identity, I argued, were too fluid, and there was no guarantee that future members of those groups would think of themselves as “minorities” in the way that has been historically true of Black Americans. Changing conditions — greater assimilation and upward mobility — could make them as volatile in partisan politics as European ethnic groups were in the 20th century.

If the Hispanic shift is as large as it appears to be, then we are living in that reality. What I didn’t expect is that it would come heralded by a Republican like Trump. But this only speaks to the diversity, ideological and otherwise, of the Hispanic electorate, which is as varied in racial background and national origin as most other groups of Americans. To extend an earlier analogy, it is probably as useful to speak of “Hispanics” in 2020 as it was to speak of “Europeans” in 1950. The category is just too broad, obscuring (in electoral politics, at least) far more than it illuminates.

Again, it is too early to say that there’s been a permanent realignment, although some trends — like the rising partisan significance of gender and education — are clear. It’s true, though, that the possibilities for change and transformation are wide open. Perhaps a future Republican, one with the same or similar fame and charisma, will build a real majority from the foundation laid over the last four years. Perhaps a future Democrat will turn the party’s consistent voting majority into a greater share of electoral votes and congressional seats. Perhaps we see neither and are in for another decade of fierce partisan competition between two equal and evenly-matched sides.

The 2020 election, in other words, will have an outcome. But it won’t be conclusive. It will be an uncertain result for an uncertain time in American life. Political trench warfare will continue. Total victory, whether in politics or anywhere else, is not on the immediate horizon. The future remains unwritten and is perhaps even more unknowable than before.





No.13 article:
Magic in the Dirt

Magic in the Dirt





No.14 article:
$26 Billion Settlement Offer in Opioid Lawsuits Gains Wide Support

Three distributors and a drug manufacturer have proposed a deal that a majority of states and negotiators for small governments finally seem to like.

The three major drug distributors and a large drug manufacturer are closing in on a $26 billion deal with state and local governments that would end thousands of lawsuits over the companies’ role in the opioid epidemic, according to people close to the negotiations and new company filings.

The deal is $4 billion more than an offer made a year ago, that was rejected by many states and municipalities. A major difference in the latest offer is $2 billion earmarked for private lawyers who represent cities, counties, and some states.

If the deal is finalized, four of the most prominent defendants in the behemoth, nationwide litigation — McKesson, Cardinal Health, AmerisourceBergen and Johnson &amp; Johnson — would no longer be at risk from future opioid lawsuits by these governments. Other drug manufacturers and the national pharmacy chains are still facing thousands of such cases.

Most of the money from the settlement deal is intended to help pay for treatment and prevention programs in communities ravaged by addiction and overdoses. From 1999 through 2018, 232,000 Americans died from overdoses of prescription opioids, according to the latest numbers from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Addiction to the painkillers also triggered an epidemic of abuse of illegal opioids like heroin, contributing to an avalanche of deaths, crime and soaring health care costs.

Litigation over the drug industry’s responsibility has been bitterly fought, resulting in a handful of settlements and the declaration of bankruptcy by some drug manufacturers, including Purdue Pharma, which just reached a settlement of federal criminal and civil charges.

The three distributors announced the outlines of their settlement offers in quarterly earnings reports released Tuesday and Thursday. Johnson &amp; Johnson announced its portion in a filing last month.

The distributors shipped more than three-quarters of the nation’s opioids to pharmacies, rarely raising red flags even when quantities were wildly disproportionate to a store’s local population, according to federal data. Over 10 years, for example, the companies shipped nearly 21 million prescription painkillers to two pharmacies four blocks apart in a West Virginia town with a population of 2,900.

The latest deal is being brokered under the shadow of two major trials tentatively scheduled for January, which the companies are hoping to avoid. Unlike last year’s smaller settlement offer, which was witheringly rejected by many states but especially by lawyers negotiating for thousands of counties, cities and tribes, this offer is being widely lauded.

“The deal gets money to all of the communities in the United States that are suffering from insult upon injury, first from the opioid epidemic and now with Covid as well,” said Paul J. Hanly Jr., a lawyer who represents numerous small governments, including two New York counties whose jury trial with New York State against these defendants and others is expected to start in January.

Still, the lawyers will have to sell the offers to the local governments they represent. “We believe it’s in the best interest of these communities to begin receiving a payment stream. We looked at the finances of these companies and believe the numbers are now appropriate,” said Mr. Hanly, who is on an executive committee of negotiators.

Without that agreement from states and localities, the companies could remain exposed indefinitely to more opioid-related lawsuits — and so could walk away from this deal.

In the latest settlement offer, the distributors have agreed to strengthen their drug monitoring programs, which have been castigated in hundreds of lawsuits as contributing to billions of pills ultimately being sold illegally.

According to the general contours of the plan described in this week’s filings, the distributors will collectively pay about $21 billion over 18 years, with $8 billion paid by McKesson alone.

Johnson &amp; Johnson said it would contribute $5 billion, most of it in the first three years. Lawsuits against Johnson &amp; Johnson said that the company had formerly contracted with poppy growers in Tasmania and supplied 65 percent of oxycodone active ingredients sold in the United States. Its subsidiary, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, manufactured its own opioids, since discontinued, and aggressively marketed them to doctors.

The settlement money would mostly be used for measures to abate the opioid crisis, including treatment programs, and to reimburse local and state governments for expenses related to the epidemic.

State attorneys general contacted for this article declined to comment because the proposal has not yet been finalized. Lawyers familiar with the talks said that at least 45 states regard the terms positively.

New York was described as a leader in the negotiations and a proponent of the deal. Holdout states are said to include New Mexico and Washington. Oklahoma isn’t fully participating because it has already won its trial against Johnson &amp; Johnson, although that verdict is being appealed.

But at least one obstacle to the deal suggests how difficult it is to reach consensus. Although the state of West Virginia settled with distributors years ago, its counties and cities, which have their own lawsuits in federal court, have not. Indeed, a major bench trial against the distributors brought by the West Virginia city of Huntington and surrounding Cabell County is set to begin Jan. 4.

The lead lawyer, Paul T. Farrell Jr. has not agreed to the offer. “West Virginia fully supports the national settlement on behalf of every other state,” said Mr. Farrell, who represents numerous West Virginia small governments. “It’s just not good enough for us.”

According to the distributors’ earnings reports, settling the cases depends on a critical mass of plaintiffs signing on, although what constitutes an acceptable majority is not clear. The offer is said to give incentives to states to sign up as many local governments as they can. Without that broad buy-in, the companies could remain exposed to more opioid-related lawsuits indefinitely — and so could walk away from this deal.

Over nearly two years of talks, the most stubborn sticking points, aside from a bottom-line dollar figure, were about how to allocate funds to very different categories of plaintiffs — as well as to platoons of private lawyers.

Under the deal, each state would determine how it would distribute settlement money. The amount each state would receive is expected to be determined by four factors: state population, overdose deaths, diagnoses of substance use disorders and volume of pills sold.

Reaching agreement on compensating the lawyers has also been a knotty problem. The cities and counties have relied on hundreds of private lawyers, who have worked on the litigation for years based on contingency fees and have already fronted hundreds of millions of dollars in expenses.

Many states also used outside counsel to supplement their own staffs.

Sometimes the same lawyers who represent local governments also worked for states. The local governments and the states have often had contentious relationships in negotiations.

The $2 billion for the lawyers is expected to be paid out over seven years.

Characterizing the biggest difference between the deal offered a year ago and this latest one, a person familiar with negotiations said: “It has some more money for governments that helped their citizens but a lot more money for lawyers.”





No.15 article:
Baseball Had a Successful Season. The Tricky Part Is Doing It Again.

A much longer season, pandemic uncertainty and an expiring collective bargaining agreement are just a few of the hurdles M.L.B. and its players’ union are facing in 2021.

When Julio Urias struck out Willy Adames of the Tampa Bay Rays to secure the World Series title for the Los Angeles Dodgers last week, it capped an arduous achievement for baseball.

There were months of bitter negotiations between Major League Baseball and the players’ union over the structure and finances of a season played during a pandemic without fans in the stands. There were coronavirus outbreaks within the Miami Marlins and St. Louis Cardinals organizations early in the season that almost jeopardized the truncated, 60-game schedule. There was a strengthening of the health and safety protocols that helped ensure the completion of the regular season and the expanded 16-team postseason. And there was painful belt tightening in an industry that lost billions of dollars.

Now comes an even taller task: doing it all over again in 2021 with a much longer season and continued uncertainty surrounding the virus.

“There’s a lot that we’ll need to work out,” Tony Clark, the executive director of the players’ union, said in a phone interview this week. Dan Halem, M.L.B.’s deputy commissioner, added, “There’s a lot of contingencies that we’re going to have to plan for because there’s no one at the moment that knows what ’21 is going to look like.”

Before the World Series ended, Clark said, the union began what he called an informal dialogue with M.L.B. about next season. Not only are there baseball matters to sort out — such as the potential continuation of the expanded playoffs and the universal designated hitter — but health and economic ones, too.

All of this will happen against the backdrop of fragile labor relations, fears of a brutal market for players this off-season and slashed payrolls next season. On Dec. 1, 2021, the collective bargaining agreement between team owners and players is set to expire.

“Having a conversation that works through the issues that does not play out publicly is to everyone’s benefit,” Clark said, alluding to the contentious discussions ahead of the 2020 season.

For now, M.L.B. and the players’ union have a foundation for the 2021 season. A traditional slate of spring training games starting in February and a 162-game regular season starting on April 1 were announced earlier this year. Any changes, like those made to the 2020 season amid a national emergency, are subject to discussions between both sides.

“My hope is that there’s a sense of normalcy to 2021,” Clark said. In a phone interview this week, Halem added, “Right now, we’re planning for a normal season.”

But so much can change between now and when pitchers and catchers are expected to report to spring training in Florida and Arizona. “Everything we plan for has to be subject to the circumstances that exist, when we’re about to start, vis-à-vis Covid,” said Halem, who oversees the league’s labor negotiations.

Among the questions Halem said were on baseball’s mind: While positive cases are surging to record levels in the United States, will that be the case come February? When will a vaccine arrive? Would players have access to it before spring training? Before the regular season? What contingencies will the sides plan for over a longer season? What changes will they make to their extensive health and safety operations manual, which outlined the every-other-day testing program for players and on-field staff members?

“It’s hard to make decisions because nobody really has concrete information yet,” Halem said. “Hopefully each month we’ll get a little more and more information about what next year may look like.”

Everything about a longer season is more difficult, Halem said. So many things had to go right, from testing deliveries to individual responsibility, to pull off the 60-game regular season. Now multiply that by nearly three. Playing more games means more chances for infection, and potentially more games to postpone to a finite number of off days should positive cases arise.

Halem and Clark said the lessons learned from the 2020 season will help M.L.B. and the players’ union plan for the challenges of next year. Until Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner learned he had tested positive for the coronavirus during the final game of the World Series — and left his mandated isolation to celebrate the championship with his teammates on the field — there hadn’t been a positive case among baseball players for nearly two months.

“There was a physical toll as well as a mental toll on all of those involved, which is going to be important to take into account moving forward,” Clark said. “As it relates to protocols, appreciating what we knew back in March, April and May versus what we learned in July, August and September is all going to be beneficial.”

But the economics of the sport could, again, be a major source of tension between M.L.B. and the players’ union.

For months ahead of the 2020 season, team owners and players vehemently and publicly disagreed over the length and compensation of the season. Owners wanted players to take a larger pay cut because nearly 40 percent of the league’s revenue came from ticket sales and attendance-related income. (Fans were not allowed in until the neutral-site National League Championship Series and World Series in Texas.) Players held firm to a March agreement that called for prorated salaries.

Ultimately, Rob Manfred, the league’s commissioner, imposed the 2020 schedule, which began on July 23. This preserved the players’ right to file a grievance, which was expected this off-season. So for the 2021 season, how many games will actually be played? Will there be fans in attendance in all 30 stadiums, and at what capacity in which municipalities? Will players be asked to take a pay cut as a result? How much can owners budget for ahead of an uncertain 2021? Can the sides work out a short-term extension of the expiring C.B.A.?

“There’s just a lot of unknowns,” Clark said. “You anticipate there being an opportunity to work through them. Our players look forward to that conversation happening.”

By some measures, the industry’s financial prognosis is still strong. Despite the pandemic, the Dodgers signed the star outfielder Mookie Betts to a $365 million contract extension before the season. Turner Sports and M.L.B. struck a TV rights extension deal worth about $3.7 billion in September. And the Mets’ sale to a hedge fund manager, Steven A. Cohen, for $2.4 billion is nearly complete.

But there are mounting signs that owners — some of whom have large fixed costs, like stadium payments, no matter the season’s length — may ask their employees to share more of the burden. Manfred has said M.L.B.’s 30 clubs have taken on more debt and suffered about $3 billion in operating losses this year.

John Mozeliak, the Cardinals’ president, told reporters that the team’s 2021 payroll was likely to drop. In a letter to season-ticket holders after the season ended, the Colorado Rockies owner Dick Monfort wrote: “It will take time to rebound, and in some cases, these losses will never be recovered. As a result, there will be nothing normal about this off-season as the industry faces a new economic reality, and each club will have to adjust.”

Hundreds of nonplaying employees across the sport have had their pay cut, been laid off or furloughed. In this off-season, over 30 players — such as Cleveland’s Brad Hand, who led the major leagues in saves — had their 2021 team options declined. Players and agents fear that a larger than usual number of players eligible for salary arbitration will be cut loose by teams.

Clark, whose union has been skeptical of the league’s accounting in the past, said that this off-season’s market “will really distinguish ownership groups that want to compete and grow their fan bases and ensure the long-term well-being of their franchises from those who are willing to continue to sacrifice winning in order to maximize the short term.”

Clark also said that while debt could be a “scary word and proposition” for individuals, it was a tool for corporations, particularly during an economic downturn when interest rates are low. He added, “So while I appreciate the assertions that have been made, we don’t accept them at face value.”

In response, Halem said that M.L.B., like any businesses that relies on public gatherings, has had its “normal economics” upended by the pandemic.

“Everyone associated with baseball is unfortunately feeling the effects of that,” he added. “We view the players as partners in our business, and this season was only possible because of productive collaboration between teams and players. We look forward to having positive dialogue with the players about how, together, we can take the field again in 2021 in a way that prioritizes health and safety and puts the industry in the strongest financial position possible for the future.”





No.16 article:
A Lockdown With Loopholes: New Virus Restrictions Come Into Force in England

The government has put the new rules in place to address a surging number of coronavirus cases across the country, but some shops and companies, as well as consumers, are flouting them.

LONDON — Chocolate shops and stationery stores were busy as usual. Universities held in-person lectures. And workers crowded into some offices and factories, often with nothing more than a bottle of communal hand sanitizer to protect them from the rampant spread of the coronavirus.

In England on Thursday, the first hours of Lockdown 2.0, as local newspapers called it, looked very little like a lockdown at all.

The situation exposed the enormous difficulties of European governments, struck by a second wave of the coronavirus, as they try to put the genie back in the bottle after months of encouraging people to flock back to offices and pubs.

Since the spring, when lawmakers with little dissent ordered people to stay home, the political consensus around lockdown measures has collapsed. As a result, England’s new shutdown rules were shot through with loopholes, and companies openly flouted what relatively lenient restrictions were in place. At the same time, citizens and scientists alike fretted about the virus spreading unchecked for much of the winter.

“It feels very much like a lockdown in name only,” said Steve Gremo, a software developer in Kent, in southeast England. “In March, it seemed like the country came to a complete halt. It was not the same vibe this morning at all.”

The latest shutdown — under which pubs, restaurants and other nonessential shops were supposed to close, but schools, universities and many workplaces were left open — is slated to end on Dec. 2. But many scientists doubt that four weeks of spotty restrictions will be enough to stamp out the virus, or that the government will have done enough by then to revamp its contact tracing system to allow officials to keep track of the virus’s spread for the rest of the winter.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government appeared to suggest on Thursday that some restrictions on working and socializing would remain in place for much longer than it had previously acknowledged.

In announcing the new lockdown measures this weekend, Mr. Johnson said the government would extend its worker support program — under which it pays 80 percent of furloughed workers’ wages — only until the restrictions lapsed on Dec. 2.

The government changed its tune on Thursday, with Rishi Sunak, the chancellor, announcing that the program would continue until the end of March because the economic damage of the pandemic would last beyond the second lockdown.

The opposition Labour Party attacked the government’s hesitation in offering the support, saying it had caused deep uncertainty for businesses and unnecessary layoffs.

For Mr. Johnson, imposing a second lockdown at all was a dramatic turnaround. Only 10 days before he announced the plan on Saturday night, he had described a national lockdown as “the height of absurdity.”

He has continued to face political pressure from libertarian and pro-business lawmakers in his Conservative Party, more than 30 of whom voted against the new restrictions in Parliament on Wednesday. The measures passed with help from Labour lawmakers.

Despite skepticism from scientists, Mr. Johnson insisted on Thursday that the new restrictions would work.

“This is not a repeat of the spring,” he said. “Four weeks is enough for these measures to make a real impact.”

But the busy subways, motorways, shops and workplaces that were in evidence across England on Thursday made plain that companies were reluctant to take the same precautions they did during the first lockdown. A large stationery chain, saying its services were essential, stayed open, raising some eyebrows.

At a chocolate shop north of London, Ashli Long, a supervisor, said schoolchildren and other customers had crowded into the store as usual. A local council official visited on Thursday and said the shop was considered nonessential and therefore needed to close.

But the shop’s owners were planning to resist, Ms. Long said, and open again on Friday. She said she worried about picking up the virus at the shop and bringing it home to her mother, who is being treated for breast cancer.

“We just feel like we don’t have any option right now,” she said. “If the government had set out rules that people could follow from the beginning, then we wouldn’t be in the situation we’re in now.”

Given the crowded streets on Thursday, she added, “I don’t see the virus going away anytime soon.”

The localized restrictions that Mr. Johnson’s government had previously imposed have shown signs of flattening the uptick in infections, scientists said, with reported daily new cases leveling off at around 23,000 in recent days. Still, deaths continued to rise, with nearly 500 recorded across Britain on Wednesday, the highest level since mid-May.

When the coronavirus first surged in the spring, scientists said, the government’s objectives in asking people to stay home were clear: Officials needed time to build up testing and contact tracing programs, learn how to treat the virus and buy enough protective equipment to keep doctors and nurses safe.

But Mr. Johnson’s goals for a second lockdown were narrower, with officials pointing to mass overcrowding in hospitals as inevitable if they did not impose new restrictions.

“I’ve no doubt the lockdown will push cases further downward, but the issue is what is going to happen afterward,” said Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia. Referring to the low infection rates over the summer, he said, “It’s not going to go back to what it was like in August.”

Prof. Hunter said a return to more localized restrictions was likely, though he said lags in imposing them so far this autumn had limited their use. Scientists have urged the government to fix problems with its contact tracing system, known as Test and Trace, which is now overwhelmed with cases.

“Four weeks isn’t enough to fix Test and Trace,” Prof. Hunter said. “That’s just not going to happen.”

Whereas Britons voluntarily stopped socializing before the first lockdown in March, they appeared to pick up the pace before the second, with online restaurant reservations rising this week compared with the same period last year.

Roadways and airports were busy on Wednesday night as some people hurried to second homes or to go on holiday before the restrictions took effect. Some pubs offered deeply discounted beers to drain their stock before lockdown.

Many people worried about repeated cycles of lockdowns and reopenings throughout the winter. Only a few months ago, the government had subsidized restaurant meals and begun a campaign encouraging people to return to their offices.

“The government is constantly saying to us, ‘Yes, go back to work, contribute to society, we need to get the economy going,’ and then, ‘Oh no, wait, too much, quick lock down everything again,’” said Mr. Gremo, the software developer. “They’re trying to walk a fine line but instead they’re swinging between either extreme.”

Andy Lewis, who also lives in Kent, said the streets were far busier than they would have been for school drop-offs, essential work and shopping alone.

“It feels like either guidance hasn’t been very clear, or people are just ignoring it,” he said. Referring to a popular coffee shop chain, he added, “This morning I got an email from Costa telling me they are still open for takeaway, yet the government are telling us not to leave the house unless it’s essential?”





No.17 article:
In Torrent of Falsehoods, Trump Claims Election Is Being Stolen

Most television networks cut away from the statement President Trump gave Thursday night from the White House briefing room on the grounds that what he was saying was not true.

WASHINGTON — Even for President Trump, it was an imagined version of reality, one in which he was not losing but the victim of a wide-ranging conspiracy stretching across the country in multiple cities, counties and states, involving untold numbers of people all somehow collaborating to steal the election in ways he could not actually explain.

Never mind that Mr. Trump presented not a shred of evidence during his first public appearance since late on election night or that few senior Republican officeholders endorsed his false claims of far-reaching fraud. A presidency born in a lie about Barack Obama’s birthplace appeared on the edge of ending in a lie about his own faltering bid for re-election.

“If you count the legal votes, I easily win,” Mr. Trump said Thursday night in an unusually subdued, 17-minute televised statement from the lectern in the White House briefing room, complaining that Democrats, the news media, pollsters, big technology companies and nonpartisan election workers had all corruptly sought to deny him a second term.

“This is a case where they’re trying to steal an election,” he said. “They’re trying to rig an election, and we can’t let that happen.”

He convinced few people who were not already in his corner. Most of the television networks cut away from the statement on the grounds that what Mr. Trump was saying was not true. On CNN, former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, a Republican often put in the position of defending Mr. Trump over the years, appeared exasperated as he denounced the president’s loose talk of election thievery as “dangerous” and “shocking” and declared that “counting absentee ballots and counting mail-in ballots is not fraud.”

The New York Post, which published salacious articles on Hunter Biden planted by Mr. Trump’s associates before the election, headlined an article: “Downcast Trump Makes Baseless Election Fraud Claims in White House Address.” Even Fox News noted it had seen no “hard evidence” of widespread wrongdoing.

“There is no defense for the President’s comments tonight undermining our Democratic process,” Gov. Larry Hogan, Republican of Maryland and a critic of the president, wrote on Twitter. “America is counting the votes, and we must respect the results as we always have before. No election or person is more important than our Democracy.”

Former Gov. Chris Christie, Republican of New Jersey and a longtime ally of Mr. Trump’s, likewise disputed the president. “I talk tonight now not as a former governor but as a former U.S. attorney — there’s just no basis to make that argument tonight,” he said on ABC News. “There just isn’t.”

With his presidency on the line, Mr. Trump’s lonely appearance in the briefing room with no allies joining him and only staff members and reporters in attendance underscored how isolated he has become just two days after Election Day. With vote counts in key states turning grimmer even as he spoke, Mr. Trump was poised to end this term in office the way he began his presidential campaign in 2015 — defended most vocally by family members and a few loyalists while Republican leaders held him at arm’s length rather than embrace outlandish claims.

With Republican members of Congress largely staying silent or issuing anodyne comments about the importance of transparent vote counting, Mr. Trump was left to dispatch his two adult sons to hold news conferences in Pennsylvania and Georgia to protest aspects of the vote count. They were accompanied by allies like Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, and Corey Lewandowski, his first campaign manager from 2016. The same scene played out in Nevada, where a Trump ally, Richard Grenell, made claims about voting fraud that news outlets debunked a short time later.

Members of Mr. Trump’s inner circle sounded almost desperate as they sought to threaten other Republicans into backing Mr. Trump. Both Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump posted messages on Twitter complaining that Republicans were not standing with their father, especially those who may want his support if they run for president in four years.

“The total lack of action from virtually all of the ‘2024 GOP hopefuls’ is pretty amazing,” Donald Trump Jr. wrote. “They have a perfect platform to show that they’re willing &amp; able to fight but they will cower to the media mob instead.”

“Where are Republicans!” Eric Trump added about an hour and a half later. “Have some backbone. Fight against this fraud. Our voters will never forget you if your sheep!”

Brad Parscale, who was removed this year as the president’s campaign manager, echoed the theme in more menacing terms. “If you want to win in 2024 as a Republican,” he wrote, “I would probably start saying something.”

After Donald Trump Jr. went after Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, for not speaking up, the senator went on Sean Hannity’s show on Fox on Thursday night and came to the president’s defense, asserting with no evidence that “Philadelphia elections are crooked as a snake” and that the “allegations of wrongdoing are earth shattering.”

Others like Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and John Barrasso of Wyoming offered support for Mr. Trump’s insistence that election observers be allowed to watch counting, which in general they are, without embracing the claims that the election was being stolen. “The president is right to ensure all legally cast votes be observed and counted,” Mr. Barrasso said.

But they were among the few who spoke up to echo Mr. Trump’s refrain that he was being denied his due in the form of winning the election, a primal scream emanating from the president that was summed up earlier in the day by his own angry, plaintive, all-caps tweet: “STOP THE COUNT!”

Allies said privately that the president seemed to be raging against the inevitable and was only doing damage with his baseless accusations about widespread fraud. Even allies who said they shared some of his concerns in a targeted way about specific rules governing mail-in voting during the coronavirus pandemic were unwilling to join Mr. Trump’s unfounded claims.

Many of those who did comment merely said they wanted “transparency” or for all “legal” votes to be counted, a phrase used by Vice President Mike Pence on Twitter that was intended to sound as if he was echoing Mr. Trump. Inside Mr. Trump’s circle, Kellyanne Conway, his former counselor, was one of the few who spoke of counting all of the votes.

For much of the year, some Trump advisers questioned whether the president actually wanted a second term, or if he simply did not want to be seen as the worst epithet in his lexicon: a loser. The answer still was not clear as the votes were being tallied this week.

He sounded dejected on Thursday evening as he went through a litany of random minor incidents involving ballots, called Philadelphia and Detroit “corrupt” and insisted he had actually won an election in which former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was leading by millions of votes nationally and appeared likely to assemble a majority in the Electoral College once a handful of swing states finished counting.

Mr. Trump bemoaned how many by-mail votes appeared to be cast for Democrats. “They’re finding ballots all of a sudden: ‘Oh, we have some mail-in ballots,’” he said. “It’s amazing how those mail-in ballots are so one-sided.” He glossed over the fact that he had spent months telling his supporters that mail-in balloting was corrupt and urging them to vote in person instead.

He likewise lashed out at others, as well, seeking many to blame for his troubles. “The pollsters got it knowingly wrong,” he said. (In fact, they did get many results wrong, but there is no evidence that it was intentional.)

“The voting apparatus of those states are run in all cases by Democrats,” he said of states still counting. (In fact, Georgia and Arizona have Republican governors.)

“We won a case, a big case,” he said. (In fact, the campaign simply won a court ruling saying that observers should be allowed to stand six feet away from counting rather than farther away.)

After he was done, the president took no questions from reporters and marched out of the room, looking glum. It was the kind of appearance that several aides had said made them happy he had remained out of public view since the early hours of Wednesday morning, when he insisted he had won the election as several key states still had not had a projected winner and called what was taking place a “fraud” on the American public.

The Trump campaign is filing a series of lawsuits, but allies of the White House have said the approach seems to be aimed at both running out the clock and appeasing a litigious president, who often turns to legal filings as an immediate course of action.

But while Mr. Trump has some experienced lawyers and political professionals leading his campaign, the public effort to raise questions about the election has been disjointed and appeared thrown together at the last minute. Some administration officials said they were mortified by footage of Mr. Giuliani bellowing in Philadelphia.

Some of Mr. Trump’s allies have encouraged the call for a blitz of legal action, including people like Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist who faces criminal charges for an allegedly fraudulent scheme scamming supporters of Mr. Trump’s border wall.

Republicans have begun having discussions about how to broach the topic with Mr. Trump of focusing on life after the presidency, and what leaving quietly could mean for his family, his business and his own ability to remain in politics.

Some have suggested that sounding notes of encouragement about a 2024 campaign could be effective. Others believe that he will concede if it is clear he has lost, but that he will most likely never publicly accept the result.

In the meantime, Mr. Trump’s advisers were divided on what he should be doing until the final vote counts are announced. There were some discussions about his holding a rally as soon as this weekend, one person briefed on the talks said.

But after Mr. Trump’s briefing room appearance, several advisers conceded that the clock on the Trump presidency was almost certainly winding down.





No.18 article:
The Rise and Fall of the ‘Stop the Steal’ Facebook Group

In its short life span, it was one of the fastest growing groups in Facebook’s history and a hub for those trying to delegitimize the election.

OAKLAND, Calif. — The first post in the new Facebook group that was started on Wednesday was innocuous enough. “Welcome” to Stop the Steal, it said.

But an hour later, the group uploaded a minute-long video to its Facebook page with a pointed message. The grainy footage showed a crowd outside a polling station in Detroit, shouting and chanting “stop the count.” Below the video, which was quickly shared nearly 2,000 times, members of the group commented “Biden is stealing the vote” and “this is unfair.”

The viral video helped turn the Stop the Steal Facebook group into one of the fastest-growing groups in Facebook’s history. By Thursday morning, less than 22 hours after it was started, it had amassed more than 320,000 users — at one point gaining 100 new members every 10 seconds. As its momentum grew, it caught the attention of Facebook executives, who shut down the group hours later for trying to incite violence.

Even so, the Stop the Steal Facebook group had done its work. In its brief life span, it became a hub for people to falsely claim that the ballot count for the presidential election was being manipulated against President Trump. New photographs, videos and testimonials asserting voter fraud were posted to the group every few minutes. From there, they traveled onto Twitter, YouTube and right-wing sites that cited the unsubstantiated and inaccurate posts as evidence of an illegitimate voting process.

Stop the Steal’s rapid rise and amplifying effects also showed how Facebook groups are a powerful tool for seeding and accelerating online movements, including those filled with misinformation. Facebook groups, which are public and can be joined by anyone with a Facebook account, have long been the nerve centers for fringe movements such as QAnon and anti-vaccination activists. And while Stop the Steal has been deleted, other Facebook groups promoting falsehoods about voter fraud have popped up.

“Facebook groups are powerful infrastructure for organizing,” said Renee DiResta, a disinformation researcher at the Stanford Internet Observatory. She added that the Stop the Steal Facebook group helped people coalesce around a baseless belief that the election was being unlawfully taken from Mr. Trump.

Tom Reynolds, a Facebook spokesman, said the social network removed the Stop the Steal group as part of the “exceptional measures” it was taking on the election. “The group was organized around the delegitimization of the election process, and we saw worrying calls for violence from some members of the group,” he said.

Stop the Steal was born on Facebook on Wednesday at 3 p.m. Eastern time as the outcome of the presidential election remained uncertain. About 12 hours earlier, as the vote counts showed a tight race between Mr. Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Trump had posted without evidence on Facebook and Twitter that “They are trying to STEAL the Election.” Mr. Trump has since repeated that assertion openly in remarks from the White House and on social media.

The idea of a stolen election quickly spread among Mr. Trump’s supporters, including to a Facebook user named Kylie Jane Kremer. Ms. Kremer, 30, a former Tea Party activist, runs a conservative nonprofit called Women for America First. She created the Stop the Steal Facebook group.

In an interview on Thursday from a protest in Atlanta, Ms. Kremer said she had started the Facebook group after speaking with conservative activists and seeing social media posts about voter fraud. She said she wanted to help organize people across the United States on the issue and centralize discussions over protests and rallies.

“I knew other people saw this the same as I did, that there were people out there trying to steal the election from the rightful person,” Ms. Kremer said, referring to Mr. Trump. “I wanted us to be able to organize to take action.”

Once the Facebook group was live, she said, it took off. Hundreds of members joined within the first hour. Then people began sharing videos — including the one showing people chanting “stop the count&quot; in Detroit — and photographs, which were quickly shared to other Facebook pages and groups.

”It was like lightning in a bottle,” Ms. Kremer said. “The group grew so fast we were struggling to keep up with the people trying to post.”

Many of the posts shared anecdotal stories claiming voter fraud or intimidation against Mr. Trump&#x27;s supporters. One post asserted that poll workers counting the ballots were wearing masks with the Biden campaign’s logo, while another said that Mr. Trump’s supporters were purposefully given faulty ballots that could not be read by machines.

Many of these posts, images and videos have been proved false. Some of the photos and images were edited or otherwise manipulated to back the idea of election tampering. Facebook has removed or labeled some of those posts, though new ones are appearing faster than the company’s fact-checkers can take action on.

Others posted about violence. One member of the Facebook group wrote on Wednesday, “This is going to take more than talk to fix.” Underneath that post, another member responded with emojis of explosions.

On Thursday morning, the Stop the Steal Facebook group’s growth skyrocketed further, according to data from CrowdTangle, a Facebook-owned social media analytics tool.

That was when right-wing figures such as Jack Posobiec, a pro-Trump activist, and Amy Kremer, Ms. Kremer’s mother and a founder of a group called Women for Trump, began posting about the Facebook group on Twitter. Ali Alexander, a political operative who previously went by the name Ali Akbar, also tweeted dozens of times about the Stop the Steal movement to his 140,000 Twitter followers.

Their messages, which were shared thousands of times, were a rallying cry for people to join the Stop the Steal Facebook group and take action in local protests against voter fraud.

“In just it’s first couple hours, more than 100,000 people joined the Women for America First, Stop the Steal Facebook Group,” wrote Mr. Posobiec. In comments below his post, many people cheered the Facebook group’s popularity.

The tweets helped send more people to Stop the Steal. Interactions with the Facebook group soared to 36 posts a minute on Thursday morning, up from roughly one post a minute, according to CrowdTangle data.

Mr. Posobiec, Mr. Alexander and Amy Kremer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

At Facebook, executives were notified of the group by Facebook moderators as they began flagging posts for potential calls for violence and protests to disrupt the vote. The company also received calls from journalists about the group and its explosive growth. By midmorning, executives were discussing whether they should remove Stop the Steal, said one employee involved in the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly.

Facebook took down the group on Thursday at 2 p.m. Eastern.

Ms. Kremer said that she was angry that Facebook had removed her group and that she was in discussions with the company to reinstate it. She accused Facebook, along with other social media companies, of censoring the Stop the Steal movement.

“Facebook had other options,” she said. “They were flagging our posts and we could have worked with them. But this is what they do, they censor.”

Still, Ms. Kremer said that before the group was taken down, its members had successfully organized events in dozens of cities. She has set up another website about voter fraud and was now directing people to it, she said.

On Facebook, dozens of new Stop the Steal groups have been created since the company removed Ms. Kremer’s group. One had nearly 10,000 members. Another had just over 2,000.





No.19 article:
Tears, Hugs and Fresh Clothes: New Jersey Prisoners Rejoice at Release

TRENTON, N.J. — Brenton McPherson took a long sip of fresh air, borrowed a stranger’s phone to call his mother and walked across a busy highway Wednesday toward a train station, his back turned away from a hulking state prison for what he hoped was the last time.

After five years, the 35-year-old father of two was free.

“I tell him this is his last chance,” his mother, Christine Guidas, said after wrapping him in a hug outside a McDonald’s in Trenton.

“Look! I’m bigger than you,” his 15-year-old son — who was 10 when Mr. McPherson was convicted of second-degree robbery — teased from the back of a black minivan.

He was, by at least four inches.

Mr. McPherson was one of 2,258 inmates released on Wednesday from prisons and halfway houses across New Jersey in one of the largest-ever single-day reductions of any state’s prison population.

Only prisoners within a year of completing sentences for crimes other than murder and sexual assault are eligible to be released up to eight months early.

Over the coming months, another 1,167 prisoners will be freed to reduce the risks of the coronavirus in crowded lockups where social distancing is next to impossible. In all, the releases will result in a roughly 35 percent reduction in New Jersey’s prison population since the start of the pandemic.

The initiative grew out of legislation signed into law last month and comes at a moment of intense national debate over transforming a criminal justice system that imprisons people of color in disproportionate numbers.

But politics and criminal justice policy were far from the minds of most people waiting in crowds to spot their loved ones walking out of prison gates, or off buses and trains, into their arms.

Outside Northern State Prison in Newark, a line of cars stretched along the road early on Wednesday.

Allan Campbell, a 41-year-old Passaic County man imprisoned for a parole violation, was released around 7 a.m. His mother, who had traveled to Newark from Paterson, had expected him to be let out in the afternoon, so he waited on the roadside for a ride.

“I’m so glad to get out — I just thank God,” said Mr. Campbell, dressed in a freshly issued pair of jeans and a white shirt.

The released prisoners were easy to spot: Each carried a white mesh laundry bag filled with manila envelopes that held their prison health records, state ID cards and leaflets about addiction treatment programs and re-entry services.

The uncle of a 32-year-old man who was leaving New Jersey State Prison in Trenton after more than a decade passed around his cellphone so the half-dozen men waiting to take a train toward home could create PIN codes for the bank debit cards that held the balance of their commissary accounts.

The men spoke of people they knew who had contracted the virus, and the lockdown measures in place since March that kept them inside small rooms with a bunk mate for as many as 23 hours a day.

Mr. Campbell said a man in his unit died of Covid-19, one of at least 52 virus-related inmate fatalities in New Jersey prisons. He said he had worried about getting the virus, and in June he was quarantined for seven days with a fever of 100.7.

Deborah Walker said she could not sleep Tuesday night, anxious about the two-hour drive to Edna Mahan Correctional Facility for Women in Clinton, N.J., and her reunion with Shameka Henry, 32, a young woman she considers her daughter.

Ms. Walker began to cry as she embraced Ms. Henry, who cried, too.

Then Ms. Henry, who was serving time for burglary and assault, changed into fresh clothes and a pair of Timberland boots that Ms. Walker had brought, and made quick work of her prison garb: She stuffed the uniform into a plastic bag and tossed it into a dumpster across the parking lot.

As the two women prepared to pull away, Ms. Henry shouted to a guard: “Bye, J Rod.”

“Look at you!” he said about the new outfit. “I don’t even know who you are.”

Maria Gellatly, 42, was imprisoned for possessing heroin and shoplifting. She served about a year, but violated the terms of her parole after she was released and was sent back to prison for another 14 months.

“I’m a little shaky,” she said. “I’m happy that I’m out, but I’m just really overwhelmed about going back into society with the whole pandemic.”

She was released on a day when New Jersey, which is grappling with an alarming uptick in virus cases, reported 2,472 new infections, the largest number since May.

Ms. Gellatly said that while she was locked up, her wife, Melanie Marshall, died.

“Her not being here — I’m happy but sad,” Ms. Gellatly said. “It’s all bittersweet.”

Opponents of the bill, which was the first legislative initiative of its kind in the country, said they were worried about releasing so many inmates at once and potentially creating a public safety risk.

Assemblyman Jon M. Bramnick, the Republican minority leader, said he opposed the bill because it included people convicted of certain violent crimes.

Reed Gusciora, the mayor of Trenton, where killings have more than doubled since last year, has said he was concerned that many of the people returning home early will be unable to find jobs and will return to the patterns that put them behind bars in the first place.

Prisoners in all state lockups are tested regularly for the virus, and the infection rate is now less than 1 percent after surging in the spring. But the legislation, which enables prisoners to earn credit for time served during the health crisis, is binding, and even those who had contracted the virus had to be released if they were eligible.

Dr. Mark Wade, the director of the Department of Health and Human Wellness in Newark, said he called the state on Tuesday to ask for enough rapid Covid-19 tests so that each of the 160 people who were expected to arrive in Newark after being released from prison could be assessed.

Not only did the state send the tests, Dr. Wade said, but it provided workers to administer them.

Anyone who did test positive would be taken to a hotel to quarantine, he said.

Many people whose family members picked them up left directly from prison; others were taken to transit hubs and given vouchers to pay for a bus or train.

Near the Trenton train station, families began arriving at 6:30 a.m., and many were still waiting for relatives in the afternoon.

Kory Hiii, 26, of Newark, was waiting for his brother who had been in prison for six years. New silver sneakers and a button-down shirt monogrammed with his brother’s initials sat waiting on the hood of his car.

The distance, Mr. Hiii said, has been especially hard since the virus hit in March.

“It’s a nerve-racking thing,” said Mr. Hiii. “But he’s coming home today, and God willing he just moves forward.”

Volunteers from an array of social justice organizations and re-entry groups fanned out to greet people at major train stations across the state.

At the New Jersey Transit station in Somerville, two volunteers lined up sweaters, coats, masks and bottles of hand sanitizer near a large sign that read, “Welcome Home.”

“Would you like a doughnut?” Catherine Lent, a volunteer with American Reentry Initiative, asked a woman who was headed to Camden and still wearing her correctional facility ID badge clipped to her prison-issued sweatpants.

“Oh, my God!” said the woman, Ronnelle Boyce. “Yes!”

Ms. Boyce, 37, tried on coats and gloves and claimed a roller suitcase to carry the new clothing.

“I just chose the wrong path before,” Ms. Boyce, who was imprisoned for aggravated assault, said before running off to catch a train. “I’m not going back. This is all a blessing!”

After the train left with a dozen newly released women on board, a denim jacket, issued by the New Jersey Department of Corrections, still hung on a railing. A half-full cup of coffee sat beneath it.





No.20 article:
Helen Lachs Ginsburg, Who Saw a Living Wage as a Right, Dies at 91

A top authority on full employment, she said a job for all may seem unrealistic, but at one time so did the right of women to vote.

Helen Lachs Ginsburg, an economist and leading authority on full employment, or what has been called a job guarantee, died on Oct. 8 in a hospital in Queens. She was 91. 

Her family said she had multiple health problems.

Dr. Ginsburg had retired as a professor of economics at Brooklyn College, where she specialized in labor and social welfare. She studied the public policy’s ramifications of full employment in the United States as well as in Sweden, and she received several awards from the U.S. Department of Labor.

Full employment — defined as an economy in which anyone who wants a job can find one — has been part of the national conversation since the early 20th century.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt was a strong proponent of full employment during the Depression. His hiring programs, including the Works Progress Administration and the Civilian Conservation Corps, provided significant relief for many workers, but their temporary nature made them insufficient to achieve the long-term benefits that he had hoped for.

“Living-wage jobs as a right may seem unrealistic,” Dr. Ginsburg wrote in a 2011 article, “but so once did the right of all children to go to school, the right of women to vote and the abolition of slavery.”

Dr. Ginsburg was a founding member of the National Committee for Full Employment, which was led by Coretta Scott King as she carried on the quest for economic justice and equality begun by her husband, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Dr. Ginsburg lectured around the country in the 1970s in support of the full employment legislation proposed by Augustus Hawkins, California’s first Black representative in Congress, and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Democrat of Minnesota.

The original legislation, intended to reduce inequality and poverty, would have provided a job for everyone who wanted to work. It was a forerunner of similar proposals today, including the federal job guarantee, a $15 minimum wage and the Green New Deal, which includes a right to living-wage work.

A watered-down version of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill was passed in 1978 and did not guarantee full employment. At that point, a disappointed Dr. Ginsburg began her study of Sweden’s successful, sustained full employment policy.

It led to her book, “Full Employment and Public Policy: The U.S. and Sweden” (1983), which inspired progressives to examine the Swedish model and try to adopt parts of it to the United States.

She also co-wrote, with two authors, a 1994 manifesto on full employment, “Jobs for All: A Plan for the Revitalization of America.” That work led to the creation of the National Jobs for All Coalition, now called the National Jobs for All Network, which promotes the idea that everyone capable of working has a right to a job. Dr. Ginsburg was a founding member.

“Helen Ginsburg was a model of a scholar-activist whose research and writing, always informed by her engagement in the struggle for economic justice, was an inspiration and impetus to all who carry on that struggle,” Gertrude Schaffner Goldberg, chair of the National Jobs for All Network, wrote in a tribute.

Helen Lachs was born on June 25, 1929, in the Bronx. Her father, William Lachs, was a haberdasher. Her mother, Anna (Riegelhaupt) Lachs, was a homemaker.

She grew up in Bayside, Queens, and received her undergraduate degree in economics from Queens College and a doctorate in economics from The New School.

She married Nathan Ginsburg in the mid-1950s. He survives her, as does her brother, Sherman Lachs.





No.21 article:
Secretaries of State in Spotlight as Trump Ratchets Up Attacks to Sow Doubt

While state election centers are broadcast on cable news and have drawn partisan supporters to the sites as thirst for electoral updates intensifies, election administrators have continued to diligently tabulate the votes.

PHILADELPHIA — They typically operate behind the scenes and far from the spotlight. But as the final count in the 2020 presidential election drags on and President Trump assaults the integrity of the results, otherwise obscure secretaries of state, election commissioners and clerks have found their every utterance meriting breaking news interruptions and all-caps cable chyrons.

With the occupant of the White House hinging on the results in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona and Nevada, the Trump campaign has sought to ratchet up pressure on election officials, threatening legislation and trying to shape public opinion with carnival-like events. Mr. Trump himself baselessly claimed widespread fraud and that people were “trying to steal the election,” at a news conference Thursday evening. And the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., even tried to make support of the effort a litmus test of the 2024 Republican presidential primary.

“Everyone should be watching who is actually fighting this flagrant nonsense and who is sitting on the sidelines,” he wrote Thursday afternoon on Twitter. An hour later, he fumed, “The total lack of action from virtually all of the ‘2024 GOP hopefuls’ is pretty amazing.”

Through it all, election administrators have continued to diligently tabulate the votes.

“Fast is great, and we appreciate fast; we more appreciate accuracy,” said Gabriel Sterling, the voting system implementation manager in Georgia, who serves under the Republican secretary of state and lists himself as a conservative in his Twitter bio. He urged patience on Thursday in news conferences — at least one of which aired on CNN — as he announced the county-by-county vote counts that slimmed Mr. Trump’s lead to a sliver.

“Accuracy is going to be the bedrock upon which people will believe the outcomes of these elections, be they on the winning side or the losing side,” Mr. Sterling said.

The thirst for electoral updates was so intense that on CNN, a live shot of the facility where vote counting was underway in critical Philadelphia appeared throughout the day.

On a downtown street corner outside that building, two prominent Trump allies — Pam Bondi, the former attorney general of Florida, and Corey Lewandowski, his former campaign manager — arrived for the first of three news conferences holding up a court order that permitted poll watchers for the Trump campaign to get closer to observe the ballot counting. Ms. Bondi’s remarks were mostly drowned out by protesters across the street, whose ranks included a D.J. and a full sound system, which blasted “Party” by Beyoncé.

Pennsylvania, with its 20 Electoral College votes, was the pressure campaign’s ground zero. Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Bill Stepien, read out a 2017 tweet to reporters from the Democratic secretary of state, Kathy Boockvar, that said, “Using the title ‘President’ before the word ‘Trump’ really demeans the office of the presidency.” That, he said, was proof that she was a “partisan hack.”

Another top Trump adviser, Jason Miller, without providing any evidence, referred to “magical sacks of ballots that keep popping up in corrupt and crooked localities that are run by partisan Democrats.”

Ms. Boockvar said at a news conference on Thursday evening that she was unaware of any credible fraud accusations and said the tweet that Mr. Stepien had highlighted preceded her election and her oath of office.

“Partisan politics have no place in the Pennsylvania Department of State,” she said.

Her granular discussion of provisional ballots, precincts reporting and an online supplemental dashboard for mail-in ballots earned live coverage on MSNBC, Fox News and CNN.

The fight in Pennsylvania was so intense that least two groups were airing postelection TV ads, with one urging that every vote be counted and another explaining the process.

“It may take a little longer than we’re used to — even a few days,” Gov. Tom Wolf of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, says in one of the ads. “But that’s OK, because it’s critical that your vote is counted.”

Unlike other states, Pennsylvania election officials were prevented from tabulating mail ballots in advance of Election Day by a state law the Republicans in the state Capitol blocked changing, and that has prolonged the count. But Lisa Schaefer, executive director of the bipartisan County Commissioners Association of Pennsylvania, which includes election officials across the state, said there was no evidence of inappropriate ballots being counted.

“We are focused on integrity and security and accuracy every step of the way,” she said, adding that the Trump campaign’s comments were simply “making things more confused.”

In Georgia, a lawsuit filed by the Trump campaign claiming that absentee ballots had been mishandled by Chatham County elections officials was dismissed Thursday by a superior court judge — a blow to the first of what the Georgia Republican Party said Wednesday would be up to a dozen lawsuits targeting counties still counting votes.

In Nevada, where Mr. Biden’s narrow lead expanded slightly on Thursday, dozens of flag-waving supporters of Mr. Trump gathered at the Clark County election center in North Las Vegas Thursday morning to protest, claiming that the election was being stolen. Trucks with Trump flags circled the block, some gunning their engines and honking their horns.

Richard Grenell, a Trump adviser who served in his administration as acting director of national intelligence, held a news conference there to level accusations that “illegal votes” were being counted. Again, he provided no specific evidence.

Joe Gloria, registrar of voters in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, held a news conference of his own at the election center and said county officials had established “security at all of its entrances.”

“We are not aware of any improper ballots that are being processed,” he added.

False rumors that using a Sharpie could invalidate a ballot, which began in Arizona, reached into neighboring New Mexico, where the secretary of state, Maggie Toulouse Oliver, said people were calling her office worried that, because they had used a marker to fill out their ballot, their vote would be invalidated.

Ms. Toulouse Oliver, who is also the president of the National Association of Secretaries of State, said that election workers this year had faced more hostility from poll monitors than in years past.

Given the stressors of the coronavirus pandemic, false rumors and intimidating protesters or monitors, she said, she was worried that some election workers might not return for the next election and was concerned by the videos she saw, in Detroit and Phoenix and elsewhere, of people crowding around ballot-counting centers.

“Who wouldn’t be terrified under these conditions, under a mob of people?” she said.

Mr. Trump showed no sign of relenting. “STOP THE COUNT,” he tweeted. (Later, his campaign sent out another statement from the president claiming Mr. Trump would lose only if “illegal” votes were counted.)

Such comments drew bipartisan rebukes.

“It reminds me of the criticism we’ve leveled at authoritarian governments who, under the guise of democracy, have tried to control and limit the counting of votes,” said former Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican who served as homeland security secretary under President George W. Bush. “There is no place for it in America.”

Mr. Ridge, a chair of a voting-rights group called VoteSafe who supported Mr. Biden in 2020, denounced the Trump campaign’s “hot and unnecessary rhetoric around bogus claims.”

Tom Daschle, a former Senate Democratic leader and a member of the National Council on Election Integrity, which was behind some of the Pennsylvania ads, called the Trump campaign’s rhetoric “corrosive.”

“It is dangerous because if people question the outcome of the election they are really questioning the essence of our democratic republic,” Mr. Daschle said. Among the other board members of the group airing “count every vote” ads in Pennsylvania was Dan Coats, Mr. Trump’s first director of national intelligence.





No.22 article:
In Covid-Wrecked Mexico, One Doctor Tried Humor and Home Visits

Gustavo Gutiérrez is a one-man roving medical clinic in Reynosa, developing a rare practice in the turbulent times of the coronavirus. He’s visited scores of patients fearful of the hospital.

REYNOSA, Mexico — Gustavo Gutiérrez pulled up to the residential corner and scanned the street. Before long, a man ran toward him, desperation etched on his face.

“Inside, doctor, she’s inside,” the man said, pointing to his home. His wife was dying of Covid.

In the darkened living room, the woman, Dolores Bustamante Robles, slumped on a sofa, slowly sipping oxygen from a rusted tank. The doctor stooped to check her vitals. The family braced for bad news.

“What’s your favorite food,” Dr. Gutiérrez finally asked.

Confused, she whispered, “Tamales?”

“Good,” he said, tucking the stethoscope in his bag. “When you’re all better, I’m coming over and you’re going to cook me some.”

If laughter heals, Dr. Gutiérrez, an affable physician and one-man roving medical clinic, has developed a rare practice in the turbulent times of Covid-19. He relies on humor, positivity and intimacy, qualities most patients have been robbed of by the pandemic.

He is also addressing one of the most vexing issues facing Mexican officials battling the virus: a refusal by patients to seek treatment from hospitals. A deep-seated fear of hospitals has meant thousands die at home without receiving proper care.

Indeed, having seen the crowded, ghastly conditions and rampant infections in Reynosa’s medical centers, where he himself caught the virus, Dr. Gutiérrez could hardly blame them.

And so he devised an elegant solution: He would, against all advice, deliver treatment directly to those in need. By his count, he’s seen well over 200 patients in their homes since June, traveling between Reynosa, the state’s largest city with 600,000 people, and Matamoros, another large border town.

“People are suffering in ways you can’t imagine, and if we bring that fear with us, it only makes them more afraid,” Dr. Gutiérrez, 39, said. “The worst part about this damn virus is that we’ve lost our humanity.”

On this day, Dr. Gutiérrez would visit six more houses before heading to his overnight shift as an emergency room doctor at a regional hospital, a routine of 20-hour days he has maintained since he started the home visits.

He began early in the summer, when a neighbor in the construction business said his workers began falling ill, and asked him to check on them. The hospitals were full, he said.

Dr. Gutiérrez, who was home recovering from his own infection, agreed to see them in his garden. Over the course of a week or so, he saw dozens of people, until a different neighbor complained that he was going to infect everyone.

But by then, the word had spread. He was receiving calls from numbers he didn’t recognize and decided that, armed with antibodies after recovering from his own infection, he would start seeing patients in their homes.

Nowadays, his phone rings no fewer than 50 times a day. On busy days, he sees up to 25 people, charging about $90 for those who can afford it, nothing to those who can’t.

“It makes it a little hard to enjoy my own life,” he admits. “But if it was my family looking for help, I’d want the doctor to answer.”

His wife, Jocelyn Guerrero, jokes that either she or their two little girls will need to get sick to get his attention.

“He’s always been like this,” she smiled, running her hand over his short-cropped hair at breakfast one morning. “Only now, instead of being around two hours a day, we barely see him.”

In the half-hour that Dr. Gutiérrez spent with Mrs. Bustamante and her family, he missed eight phone calls. And the phone rang again as he settled into his SUV: It was a man calling on behalf of his mother-in-law, an hour away in Matamoros.

“She’s really bad,” he said.

The doctor offered some basic advice — she should lie on her stomach and drink water — and promised to visit later in the week.

The calls continued. A young man on the verge of tears, afraid his mother would die. And then the phone rang again, for the third time in four minutes.

“I can’t even answer all the calls,” he sighed, ignoring the next incoming one. “It’s really just chance and luck.”

The next stop was the home of a 25-year-old maintenance worker, Fabián de León Sánchez, who had worked with Dr. Gutiérrez at the hospital.

He had contracted the virus on the job, most likely while transporting a ventilator, and yet refused to be admitted despite blood oxygenation levels of 73 percent, a dangerously low level.

“It was horrible at the hospital,” Mr. de León said, sitting up in bed. “I preferred to recover at home.”

He was better now, not 100 percent, but good enough to laugh and joke with the doctor.

Dr. Gutiérrez, who has become a minor social media celebrity, asked the young man to join him for a photo to post on Facebook. Mr. de León, eager to show his victory over the virus, asked his wife to bring him his boxing gloves for the picture.

Outside, the sun cast an infernal heat on the city, with the temperature brushing up to 100 degrees. Dr. Gutiérrez’s phone began buzzing again. Another WhatsApp video call.

On the screen, an older man lay on a bed covered in a green sheet. His face looked nearly frozen. The man’s son turned the camera around and asked the doctor for help.

Dr. Gutiérrez began with his standard questions about symptoms and pre-existing conditions.

“Does he have a fan or air-conditioner? And is he drinking water?” the doctor asked.

No, said his son.

“He’s in that small house, burning up,” the doctor explained. “A lot of people are simply dehydrated.”

Another call. The family of Mrs. Bustamante, with questions about the prescriptions he sent.

The daughter of a 74-year-old woman, who had become ill 10 days earlier, called next. He promised to visit.

“Don’t be shy,” he said with a laugh. “Call me and remind me if I don’t confirm.”

Dr. Gutiérrez pulled into a private hospital down the street from his home, where he fielded another three calls.

He had taken to using the facility for patients he did not think would survive at home. Inside, he said a quiet hello to the family of one of his patients, huddled in the waiting area, too numb to weep.

Their father had died that morning, the second member of the family lost to Covid-19. A week earlier, the man’s 29-year-old daughter had died of complications from the virus.

His daughters and wife were waiting for the final paperwork.

Dr. Gutiérrez called the family’s youngest daughter, 27, into a private room. She carried a large file with her. He pulled out a stack of forms and asked for her father’s work credentials.

When he asked for a social security ID, she grew flustered, rifling through the accordion tabs.

“Honestly, we didn’t prepare for this,” she said, her face flushed. She continued to pick through the file, then stopped and looked at the doctor.

“With my sister, we knew what was happening more or less,” she added, composed now. “We never expected this.”

Outside, the doctor started up his SUV and cranked the air conditioning. He checked his phone. Six more missed calls.

He didn’t want to talk much about the dead patient, a man named Mario, who left behind a wife and two surviving daughters.

Not that it affected him, he said. He was long past that. He wouldn’t get caught up in the grief, because doing so would make his job impossible.

And right then, with his phone ringing on his dashboard, he had more patients to see.





No.23 article:
E.S. Reddy, Who Led U.N.’s Efforts Against Apartheid, Dies at 96

An Indian-born acolyte of Gandhi, he campaigned for boycotts, divestments and other protests against the South African government.

E.S. Reddy, an Indian-born acolyte of Gandhi who spearheaded efforts at the United Nations to end apartheid in South Africa, died on Sunday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 96.

His death was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa, who hailed Mr. Reddy’s “commitment to human rights” and his epitomizing “social solidarity.”

From 1963 to 1984, Mr. Reddy oversaw the U.N.’s efforts against apartheid first as principal secretary of the Special Committee Against Apartheid and then as director of the Center Against Apartheid.

He campaigned for boycotts and other economic sanctions against the white South African government, which segregated and oppressed Black people and subordinated the country’s large population of Indian immigrants.

He also lobbied relentlessly for the release of Nelson Mandela, the imprisoned anti-apartheid leader who was finally freed in 1990 and then elected South Africa’s first Black head of state four years later.

“There is no one at the United Nations who has done more to expose the injustices of apartheid and the illegality of the South African regime than he has,” Sean MacBride, a former U.N. commissioner for Namibia and a Nobel Peace Prize winner, said of Mr. Reddy in 1985.

In a 2004 interview for the book “No Easy Victories” (2007), Mr. Reddy, influenced by Gandhi’s strategy of nonviolent resistance to India’s British colonial rulers, explained the genesis of his interest in South Africa:

“I was already interested in the anti-apartheid movement in the 1940s, when the struggle in South Africa took on new forms and Indians and Africans were cooperating in the struggle. During the Second World War, the United States and Britain talked about four freedoms in the Atlantic Charter, but those freedoms didn’t apply to India or South Africa.”

The vast pool of Indian contract workers who had immigrated to South Africa starting in the late 19th century had found common ground with Black citizens as another oppressed minority there. India was among the first countries to join what became an international movement to isolate South Africa through commercial and cultural boycotts, and to exert economic leverage by pressuring corporations, universities, foundations and pension funds worldwide to divest themselves of holdings in South African companies.

Mr. Reddy embraced that effort.

“He had to face many obstacles and antagonisms, coming from the Western Powers mainly,” Mr. MacBride said, “but he had the skill, courage and determination necessary to overcome the systematic overt and covert opposition to the liberation of the people of Southern Africa.”

Enuga Sreenivasulu Reddy was born on July 1, 1925, in Pallapatti, a village in southern India about 90 miles north of Madras. His father, E.V. Narasa Reddy, ran a mining company that exported mica. His mother was a homemaker.

His father was jailed for participating in Gandhi’s protest campaigns, and his mother sold her jewelry to raise money for Gandhi’s efforts on behalf of India’s lowest caste, the so-called untouchables. Enuga himself led a strike as a high school student.

After graduating from the University of Madras in 1943, he intended to earn an advanced degree in chemical engineering in Illinois, but the shortage of ships immediately after World War II delayed his arrival in the United States until the middle of the semester.

When he finally did arrive, in New York, he decided to stay in the city, deciding that he could better keep abreast of events in India from there. Having forgotten by then much of the math he had learned as an undergraduate engineering student, he switched to political science and earned his master’s degree in the subject from New York University in 1948. He continued his studies at Columbia University.

He married Nilufer Mizanoglu, a translator of the poet Nazim Hikmet. She survives him, along with their daughters, Mina Reddy and Leyla Tegmo-Reddy; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

Utterly broke after a two-month U.N. internship, Mr. Reddy was hired by the then-fledgling United Nations in 1949 to conduct research as a political affairs officer.

In the late 1940s, he became active in the Council on African Affairs, a group led by Paul Robeson and W.E.B. Du Bois. It initially drew mainstream progressive support but faded after the government declared it a subversive organization in 1953 because some of its leaders had Communist ties.

By then, India had gained its freedom from the British, a moment, Mr. Reddy said, that should have been the beginning of the end of colonialism.

“I had a feeling that I did not do enough,” he said in the 2004 interview. “I did not make enough sacrifice for India’s freedom, so I should compensate by doing what I can for the rest of the colonies.” When he joined the U.N., he added, “that feeling was in the back of my mind.”

After he retired in 1985, by then holding the title of assistant general secretary, Mr. Reddy wrote histories of the Black liberation and anti-apartheid movements and the links between India and South Africa.

He was awarded the Joliot-Curie Medal of the World Peace Council in 1982. In 2013, he received the Order of the Companions of O.R. Tambo from the South African government, an honor named for the former African National Congress president-in-exile.

When Mr. Reddy celebrated his 96th birthday last July, the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, a South African organization opposed to racism and corruption, congratulated him for a lifetime of “working tirelessly in support of the liberation movement” and “forging an unshakable bond between South Africa and his homeland, India.”





No.24 article:
Billy Tubbs Dies at 85; Made Oklahoma a Basketball Power

His “Billy Ball” brand of fast-paced offense and pressure defense brought excitement, victories and lots of scoring.

Billy Tubbs, the colorful coach who brought Oklahoma basketball to prominence in the 1980s with a high-octane system known as Billy Ball, died on Sunday in Norman, Okla., the home of the university’s main campus. He was 85.

He had been treated for leukemia since 2015, his family said in a statement announcing his death.

Tubbs took over a struggling Oklahoma program in 1980. Before he arrived, the Sooners had reached the N.C.A.A. tournament just once over 32 seasons as a member of the now-dissolved Big Eight conference and held a combined winning percentage of .471 from 1950 to 1980. (For most of those years, only the Big Eight champion could represent the conference in the tournament.)

His fast-paced offenses and relentless full-court pressure defenses, christened Billy Ball, led to lots of scoring, excitement and wins. In one three-season run, the Sooners averaged more than 100 points per game.

“Some people call it run and gun or run and shoot,” Tubbs was quoted as saying, before adding, “I hope it’s run and score.”

In his 14 seasons in Norman, Tubbs’s teams ran off 13 straight winning seasons, won five conference championships and compiled a 333-132 record. Tubbs was Big Eight coach of the year four times.

His 1987-88 team, featuring the future N.B.A. players Mookie Blaylock, Harvey Grant and Stacey King, reached the N.C.A.A. title game at Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Mo., before being upset by Coach Larry Brown’s Kansas Jayhawks, who beat them by four points. 

Perhaps Tubbs’s most famous moment came on Feb. 9, 1989. His Sooners fell behind Missouri early, and fans who disagreed with a traveling call against Blaylock had thrown debris on the court. The public-address announcer told the crowd that the Sooners could be assessed a technical foul if the activity continued. Tubbs then took the microphone.

“The referees,” he said, “request that regardless of how terrible the officiating is, do not throw stuff on the floor.”

He earned a technical and a standing ovation from the home crowd. (Oklahoma rallied for a 112-105 win.)

Billy Duaine Tubbs was born on March 5, 1935, in St. Louis to Oscar and Bessie (Marchbanks) Tubbs and grew up in Tulsa, Okla. He was a three-year basketball letterman at Tulsa Central High School. Both parents died before he graduated, in 1953.

Tubbs’s college years were spent entirely in Texas. He attended Lon Morris Junior College in Jacksonville, where he led the Bearcats to the National Junior College semifinals in 1955, then earned a bachelor’s degree in physical education at what is now Lamar University in Beaumont. He received a master of education degree at Stephen F. Austin State University in Nacogdoches.

Early in his career, Tubbs was an assistant coach at Lamar and then North Texas State before being named head coach at Southwestern University, north of Austin. He had two head-coaching stints at Lamar — 1976-80 and 2003-6 — and was Southland Conference coach of the year in 1978 and 1980. He led the Cardinals to their first two N.C.A.A. tournaments, reaching the Sweet 16 in 1980.

Tubbs was Lamar’s athletic director from 2002 to 2011, the year the university dedicated the basketball floor at the Montagne Event Center as Billy &amp; Pat Tubbs Court, named in honor of him and his wife.

He also coached at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, from 1995 to 2002, and led its previously struggling program to the N.C.A.A. tournament in 1998.

Over all, Tubbs had a 609-317 (.658) record as a Division I head coach. He was inducted into the Oklahoma Sports Hall of Fame in 2006.

In recent years he would attend Oklahoma basketball games at the Lloyd Noble Center and go to the media room at halftime to chat with reporters. The night before he died, he wore a “Cheer Like a Champion” shirt while watching the Sooners football team beat Texas Tech on television.

“He was a fierce competitor in everything he faced, and that was never more evident than in his final days,” his family said.

He is survived by his wife, Patricia (Ousley) Tubbs, whom he married in 1958; a son, Tommy, who played two seasons at point guard for his father at Oklahoma in the mid-1980s; a daughter, Taylor McDaniel; a brother, M.W. Tubbs; and eight grandchildren.

Tubbs came to lament that his relentless, fast-paced style of play is scarcely seen in college ball nowadays.

“I think what we have right now is a lot of slow basketball games,” he told the newspaper The Oklahoman in 2019. “Some of them are painful to watch.”

Today’s game, he said, “is all about dribbling — have you noticed?”

He added: “They ought to count the number of dribbles and who’s leading the nation in dribbling. It’s just slowed the game down.”





No.25 article:
On Election Day, Facebook and Twitter Did Better by Making Their Products Worse

New rules put in place by the companies over the last four years have helped them avert their greatest fears.

That gust of wind you felt coming from Silicon Valley on Wednesday morning was the social media industry’s tentative sigh of relief.

For the last four years, executives at Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other social media companies have been obsessed with a single, overarching goal: to avoid being blamed for wrecking the 2020 U.S. election, as they were in 2016, when Russian trolls and disinformation peddlers ran roughshod over their defenses.

So they wrote new rules. They built new products and hired new people. They conducted elaborate tabletop drills to plan for every possible election outcome. And on Election Day, they charged huge, around-the-clock teams with batting down hoaxes and false claims.

So far, it appears those efforts have averted the worst. Despite the frantic (and utterly predictable) attempts from President Trump and his allies to undermine the legitimacy of the vote in the states where he is losing, there have been no major foreign interference campaigns unearthed this week, and Election Day itself was relatively quiet. Fake accounts and potentially dangerous groups have been taken down quickly, and Facebook and Twitter have been unusually proactive about slapping labels and warnings in front of premature claims of victory. (YouTube was a different story, as evidenced by the company’s slow, tepid response to a video that falsely claimed that Mr. Trump had won the election.)

The week is young, of course, and there’s still plenty of time for problems. Election-related disinformation is already trending up — some of it targeted at Latinos — and will only increase as votes are challenged in the courts, and conspiracy theorists capitalize on all the uncertainty to undermine confidence in the eventual results.

But the platforms’ worst fears haven’t yet materialized. That’s a good thing, and a credit to the employees of those companies who have been busy enforcing their rules.

At the same time, it’s worth examining how Twitter, Facebook and YouTube are averting election-related trouble, because it sheds light on the very real problems they still face.

For months, nearly every step these companies have taken to safeguard the election has involved slowing down, shutting off or otherwise hampering core parts of their products — in effect, defending democracy by making their apps worse.

They added friction to processes, like political ad-buying, that had previously been smooth and seamless. They brought in human experts to root out extremist groups and manually intervened to slow the spread of sketchy stories. They overrode their own algorithms to insert information from trusted experts into users’ feeds. And as results came in, they relied on the calls made by news organizations like The Associated Press, rather than trusting that their systems would naturally bring the truth to the surface.

Nowhere was this shift more apparent than at Facebook, which for years envisioned itself as a kind of post-human communication platform. Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, often spoke about his philosophy of “frictionless” design — making things as easy as possible for users. Other executives I talked to seemed to believe that ultimately, Facebook would become a kind of self-policing machine, with artificial intelligence doing most of the dirty work and humans intervening as little as possible.

But in the lead-up to the 2020 election, Facebook went in the opposite direction. It put in place a new, cumbersome approval process for political advertisers, and blocked new political ads in the period after Election Day. It throttled false claims, and put in place a “virality circuit-breaker” to give fact-checkers time to evaluate suspicious stories. And it temporarily shut off its recommendation algorithm for certain types of private groups, to lessen the possibility of violent unrest. (On Thursday, The New York Times reported that the company was taking other temporary measures to tamp down election-related misinformation, including adding more friction to the process of sharing posts.)

All of these changes may, in fact, make Facebook safer. But they also involve dialing back the very features that have powered the platform’s growth for years. It’s a telling act of self-awareness, as if Ferrari had realized that it could only stop its cars from crashing by replacing the engines with go-kart motors.

“If you look at Facebook’s election response, it was essentially to point a lot of traffic and attention to these hubs that were curated by people,” said Eli Pariser, a longtime media executive and activist who is working on Civic Signals, a new project that is trying to reimagine social media as a public space. “That’s an indication that ultimately, when you have information that’s really important, there’s no substitute for human judgment.”

Twitter, another platform that for years tried to make communication as frictionless as possible, spent much of the past four years trying to pump the brakes. It brought in more moderators, revamped its rules, and put more human oversight on features like Trending Topics. In the months leading up to the election, it banned political ads, and disabled sharing features on tweets containing misleading information about election results, including some from the president’s account.

YouTube didn’t act nearly as aggressively this week, but it has also changed its platform in revealing ways. Last year, it tweaked its vaunted recommendation algorithm to slow the spread of so-called borderline content. And it started promoting “authoritative sources” during breaking news events, to prevent cranks and conspiracy theorists from filling up the search results.

All of this raises the critical question of what, exactly, will happen once the election is over and the spotlight has swiveled away from Silicon Valley. Will the warning labels and circuit-breakers be retired? Will the troublesome algorithms get turned back on? Do we just revert to social media as normal?

Camille François, the chief innovation officer of Graphika, a firm that investigates disinformation on social media, said it was too early to say whether these companies’ precautions had worked as intended. But she conceded that this level of hypervigilance might not last.

“There were a lot of emergency processes put in place at the platforms,” she said. “The sustainability and the scalability of those processes is a fair question to ask.”

Mr. Pariser said that the platforms’ work to prevent election interference this year raised bigger questions about how they will respond to other threats.

“These platforms are used for really important conversations every day,” Mr. Pariser said. “If you do this for U.S. elections, why not other countries’ elections? Why not climate change? Why not acts of violence?”

These are the right questions to ask. The social media companies may have gotten through election night without a disaster. But as with the election itself, the real fights are still ahead.





No.26 article:
Nasal Spray Prevents Covid Infection in Ferrets, Study Finds

Scientists at Columbia University have developed a treatment that blocks the virus in the nose and lungs, is inexpensive and needs no refrigeration.

A nasal spray that blocks the absorption of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has completely protected ferrets it was tested on, according to a small study released on Thursday by an international team of scientists. The study, which was limited to animals and has not yet been peer-reviewed, was assessed by several health experts at the request of The New York Times.

If the spray, which the scientists described as nontoxic and stable, is proved to work in humans, it could provide a new way of fighting the pandemic. A daily spritz up the nose would act like a vaccine.

“Having something new that works against the coronavirus is exciting,” said Dr. Arturo Casadevall, the chairman of immunology at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, who was not involved in the study. “I could imagine this being part of the arsenal.”

The work has been underway for months by scientists from Columbia University Medical Center in New York, Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands and Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health and the Columbia University Medical Center.

The team would require additional funding to pursue clinical trials in humans. Dr. Anne Moscona, a pediatrician and microbiologist at Columbia and co-author of the study, said they had applied for a patent on the product, and she hoped Columbia University would approach the federal government’s Operation Warp Speed or large pharmaceutical companies that are seeking new ways to combat the coronavirus.

The spray attacks the virus directly. It contains a lipopeptide, a cholesterol particle linked to a chain of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. This particular lipopeptide exactly matches a stretch of amino acids in the spike protein of the virus, which the pathogen uses to attach to a human airway or lung cell.

Before a virus can inject its RNA into a cell, the spike must effectively unzip, exposing two chains of amino acids, in order to fuse to the cell wall. As the spike zips back up to complete the process, the lipopeptide in the spray inserts itself, latching on to one of the spike’s amino acid chains and preventing the virus from attaching.

“It is like you are zipping a zipper but you put another zipper inside, so the two sides cannot meet,” said Matteo Porotto, a microbiologist at Columbia University and one of the paper’s authors.

The work was described in a paper posted to the preprint server bioRxiv Thursday morning, and has been submitted to the journal Science for peer review.

Dr. Peter J. Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, said the therapy looked “really promising.”

“What I’d like to know now is how easy it is to scale production,” he said.

In the study, the spray was given to six ferrets, which were then divided into pairs and placed in three cages. Into each cage also went two ferrets that had been given a placebo spray and one ferret that had been deliberately infected with SARS-CoV-2 a day or two earlier.

Ferrets are used by scientists studying flu, SARS and other respiratory diseases because they can catch viruses through the nose much as humans do, although they also infect each other by contact with feces or by scratching and biting.

After 24 hours together, none of the sprayed ferrets caught the disease; all the placebo-group ferrets did.

“Virus replication was completely blocked,” the authors wrote.

The protective spray attaches to cells in the nose and lungs and lasts about 24 hours, Dr. Moscona said. “If it works this well in humans, you could sleep in a bed with someone infected or be with your infected kids and still be safe,” she said.

The amino acids come from a stretch of the spike protein in coronaviruses that rarely mutates. The scientists tested it against four different variants of the virus, including both the well-known “Wuhan” and “Italian” strains, and also against the coronaviruses that cause SARS and MERS.

In cell cultures, it protected completely against all strains of the pandemic virus, fairly well against SARS and partially against MERS.

The lipoprotein can be inexpensively produced as a freeze-dried white powder that does not need refrigeration, Dr. Moscona said. A doctor or pharmacist could mix the powder with sugar and water to produce a nasal spray.

Other labs have designed antibodies and “mini-proteins” that also block the SARS-CoV-2 virus from entering cells, but these are chemically more complex and may need to be stored in cold temperatures.

Dr. Moscona and Dr. Porotto have been collaborating on similar “fusion inhibitor” peptides for 15 years, they said in a conference call. They have developed some against measles, Nipah, parainfluenza and other viruses.

But those products aroused little commercial interest, Dr. Porotto said, because an effective measles vaccine already exists and because the deadly Nipah virus only turns up occasionally in faraway places like Bangladesh and Malaysia.

Monoclonal antibodies to the new coronavirus have been shown to prevent infection as well as treat it, but they are expensive to make, require refrigeration and must be injected. Australian scientists have tested a nasal spray against Covid-19 in ferrets, but it works by enhancing the immune system, not by targeting the virus directly.

Because lipopeptides can be shipped as a dry powder, they could be used even in rural areas in poor countries that lack refrigeration, Dr. Moscona said.

Dr. Moscona, a pediatrician who usually works on parainfluenza and other viruses that infect children, said she was most interested in getting the product to poor countries that may never have access to the monoclonal antibodies and mRNA vaccines that Americans may soon have. But she has little experience in that arena, she said.

“I’ve always been a basic scientist,” she said. “I’ve never done drug development or taken anything to the F.D.A. or anything like that.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.27 article:
Escape Rooms in an At-Home Era? Here’s the Key

The immersive games are reinventing for online, at-home play — which is no surprise, an industry expert said: “These folks are deeply creative, and they’re scrappy.”

Hours after sunset, our team had finally decrypted the poems and exposed the nine oracles. With the traitor in our midst unmasked and the guardian revealed, the portal to the library began to open.

Then my computer crashed, and I missed the climactic moments of the Secret Library, an online escape-room-style experience poised at the intersection of gaming and immersive theater.

The Secret Library is one of dozens, maybe hundreds, of new events prompted by pandemic-related closures. More than 2,000 physical escape-room facilities operate in the United States, or at least they did back in March, before lockdown hit. Some have since reopened, though patrons remain wary of spending an hour or two in an enclosed and imprecisely ventilated space. Others have closed entirely.

To create a revenue stream, to keep employees on the books, to buck up brand awareness and to keep from going completely stir crazy, many escape-room owners — and people in adjacent trades, like theater — have entered a period of frenetic innovation. In search of pandemic-friendly entertainment, they have created and adapted games to make them available for live remote play, asynchronous point-and-click play, print-and-play, and play by telephone and mail.

“These folks are deeply creative, and they’re scrappy,” said David Spira, who, with his wife, Lisa, founded Room Escape Artist, a review-focused website that also hosts an annual industry conference.

Taken together, these new games constitute a wholesale rethinking of immersion and experience design. Which is to say that escape rooms have, by and large, escaped the room itself.

Escape rooms began in the mid-2000s, most likely in Japan, though the origins remain contested in a depends-on-how-you-define-it kind of way. In most rooms, which can be basic Ikea hacks or triumphs of scenography and product design, a team competes to solve a variety of puzzles and “break out” of the room. (Following an escape-room fire in Poland in 2019, most owners leave doors unlocked throughout facilities, so the breaking is theoretical.)

Though less risky than many forms of live entertainment — the business model caters to small groups and private bookings, and environments can be thoroughly disinfected between games — the pandemic has threatened the future of nearly all escape rooms in the United States.

“The business model is built on being together,” said Haley E.R. Cooper, the artistic director of Strange Bird Immersive, a Houston escape room. “We’re all just completely devastated by this.”

In the spring, a few enterprising rooms shifted to remote play by having a camera-strapped employee enter the space and do a Zoom audience’s bidding. That didn’t work especially well. It takes a lot longer to order someone to manipulate an object than to manipulate it yourself, for one thing, and certain puzzles that delight in-person — guiding a marble through a maze, say — lose a lot in video translation.

“Watching the avatar do it for you? Not fun,” Lisa Spira said.

But as spring turned into summer, the games improved. (Or as David Spira put it, “They went from total trash to some really spectacular stuff.”) Some places, like Mad Genius Escape Rooms, in Portland, Ore., built whole new games around existing rooms. In this case, the Truth About Edith, a fresh narrative inspired by a crazy cat-lady room.

Omescape, which owns three facilities in the Bay Area, figured out how to turn mute avatars into distinct characters. Last month, I watched a group of giddy teenagers play through Omescape’s online game, Pursuit of the Assassin Artist. Their eyes and ears? An actor cast as a feckless secret agent. He obeyed their commands — except when they asked him to sing Cardi B’s “WAP” — and offered subtle and not so subtle hints (“Google it”) when a puzzle stumped them.

Other venues have put puzzling aside. To create work for its employees, Strange Bird dreamed up “The Strange Secret of Adrian Rook,” an online theater piece that put their regular workers and some of their old sets to remote use. Usually it takes the company over a year to create a new room. This experience, it built in two weeks. “We wanted to give people an event, real entertainment,” Cooper said.

Real entertainment doesn’t necessarily rely on live actors. In early March, the Kauai Escape Room closed its doors before Hawaii began its lockdown. “We started feeling gross just being around people in small enclosed spaces,” Yacine Merzouk, a co-owner, said.

So he and his partner, Michelle Rundbaken, created the Society of Curiosities, which so far includes a digital adventure, Mysterious Map Heist, and a monthly game-in-a-box subscription. Similarly, C.U. Adventures in Time and Space, a business in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., took one of its retired games, “The Lost Temple,” and reformatted it as a print-and-play game with a companion website. I tried it with some college and grad-school friends, we managed to save the world, barely. The company has since added a Halloween game, set in a haunted office. “Because what’s scarier than going back to an office?” Anne Lukeman, a co-owner, said.

Can these games equal the excitement of rushing around an actual room as a ticking clock counts down? Not exactly. There are interventions, like visible timers and suspenseful music, that help. “It is different,” David Spira said. But in successful games — he and his wife play two or three each week — adrenaline still rushes. And some games really only work online.

Speaking of “Adrian Rook,” Cooper said: “This show couldn’t happen in person. This is a new artistic frontier.”

It’s also a comparatively inexpensive one. To host an in-person escape room requires a space, rented or owned, and time and money to build out and decorate that space. Strange Bird’s terrestrial escape room, the Man from Beyond, cost about $30,000 to build. “Adrian Rook” cost about $300. “I can stick some sticker brick vinyl on a wall and call it a bar, if I position the camera correctly,” Cooper said.

A lower financial bar means more games and more innovation. Katie Lewis, of Mad Genius, had felt that she had already pushed the boundaries of what an in-person room could be. “This is a whole new world,” she said. “You can add interactive theater, you can add dramatic video sequences, you can animate things happening that you’d never be able to build.”

Online rooms and boxed games have another advantage — nearly anyone can play them, from nearly anywhere, with location and physical ability no longer an obstacle. Sarah Zhang of Omescape said she has seen reservations from people in England, Germany and Australia. “It’s really funny,” she said. “Our goal in the beginning was to bring people out from computers or TVs and into actual rooms. But now our goal is, ‘OK, let’s bring everything online.’”

It’s ironic, perhaps, that escape room games have proliferated when escape from our own homes — depending on where in the country you live and how — feels both so desirable and so risky. At least one industry is meeting the moment with freshly imagined anagrams, substitution ciphers and alphanumeric codes.

In the early days of the pandemic, Cooper saw a sign in her Houston neighborhood — the English World War II motto, Keep Calm and Carry On. It made her angry. “This isn’t a ‘carry on’ situation,” she said. “This is insanity.” Instead she proposed a new motto: Keep Calm and Get Creative. “We can’t go back to our old ways,” she said. “We need to do new things.”





No.28 article:
What the Voters Are Trying to Tell Us

They are not always wise, but they have something important to say.

Yup, I wanted a grand rebuke, too. I wanted Trump demolished by 10 points. But elections are educational events. Voters are not always wise, but they are usually comprehensible. They know more about their own lives than we in our information bubbles do, and they almost always tell us something important.

The first thing we heard from most Americans — since Joe Biden’s popular vote victory seems all but certain — is that Donald Trump is unacceptable. We live in a divided, dug-in nation, but millions more white evangelicals voted Democratic in 2020 than in 2016. Many people voted against partisan predilections to remove a man who is a unique menace to the foundations of this country. That is no meager accomplishment.

The second thing voters told us is this: Separate church and state. We’ve long had political polarization in this country and we still will. But over the last few years polarization has transmogrified into something worse: a religious war.

Trumpism and Wokeism are not equivalent phenomena, but they both serve as secular religions for their disciples. They offer a binary logic of good and evil, a cultlike membership experience, apocalyptic or utopian visions, witch trials for the excommunication of the impure and the sense of personal meaning that comes while fighting a holy war.

In different ways, voters told the two parties that they’d like our politics to be about practical issues. If you want a religious war, go have it somewhere else.

They told Republicans, for example, that you will be much stronger without the MAGA craziness. The Republican Party had a much better election than Trump. While Trump is losing, Republicans have picked up six House seats so far. The Democrats have yet to flip a single state legislature, meaning Republicans will draw the district lines for the next 10 years of electioneering.

The image of a possible future G.O.P. emerged — a multiracial working-class party. Republicans made surprising gains among Latinos, African-Americans and Muslims. Trump won the largest share of the nonwhite vote of any Republican candidate in 60 years. That wasn’t done by Trumpian race-baiting but because of the party’s reputation for championing personal agency and personal responsibility, and for boosting small businesses and economic growth. That can be built on.

Meanwhile, voters told Democrats that they, too, would benefit if they played up policy and played down cultural concerns of their Portlandia/graduate-schooled/defund-the-police wing.

If there was ever going to be a Democratic blowout election, this was it — against an immoral candidate with a criminally incompetent record. But Democrats failed to pull it off.

It’s not policies that cost Democrats. The core Biden policies are astoundingly popular. It’s that they’ve built a cultural blue wall that keeps the other half of the country out, no matter the circumstance.

They’ve done it by telling a certain sort of story. American politics, progressives commonly say, is all about the historical shift from homogeneity to diversity. They see America as divided between those enlightened cosmopolitans (Democrats) who welcome the coming diverse postindustrial world and those knuckle-dragging, racist troglodytes (Republicans) who don’t.

The first problem with this narrative is that it is perpetually surprised by events. Election after election, the emerging Democratic majority fails to emerge. The second problem is that it oversimplifies the different processes going on in America. Somehow, we have to have the racial reckoning, which is essential, while we understand the other mega-narratives people feel are driving their lives. Third, it’s just astonishingly smug, self-congratulatory and off-putting.

The voters have handed us a political system that will be led, probably, by Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi and Mitch McConnell. These are not culture warriors. They are politicians and legislators.

We now have two parties whose best version of themselves is as working-class parties. Maybe the next few years can be a partisan competition over who is best for Americans without college degrees.

Would divided government devolve into gridlock? Maybe. McConnell will do whatever is in the G.O.P.’s best interests in 2022. But I’m not so sure. America is bitterly divided on cultural matters, but it is getting less divided over economic policy. Populism has weakened the G.O.P.’s anti-government wing and opened senators like Marco Rubio, Josh Hawley, Tom Cotton and others to ideas that call for more federal involvement in industry. For some that includes worker training, for others, an infrastructure bank, wage subsidies or R&amp;D industrial policy.

The voters reminded us yet again that the other side is not going away. We have to dispense with the fantasy that after the next miracle election our side will suddenly get everything it wants. We have to live with one another.

The key is loosening the grip the culture war has had on our politics and governance. Let’s fight our moral difference with books, sermons, movies and marches, not with political coercion.





No.29 article:
Flashbacks to Florida in 2000 as Trump Heads to Court to Save His Presidency

While the White House seeks a “James Baker-like” figure to lead its postelection legal battle, the real James Baker says President Trump should not try to stop votes from being counted.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

WASHINGTON — The White House hoped to find a “James Baker-like” figure to lead its postelection battle to somehow find a way to win a second term. But the original James Baker says the White House should stop trying to stop the votes from being counted.

Mr. Baker, the former secretary of state who led the legal and political team during the epic Florida recount battle in 2000 that secured the presidency for George W. Bush, said in an interview on Thursday that President Trump may have legitimate issues to pursue, but they should not be used to justify halting the initial tabulation of ballots.

“We never said don’t count the votes,” said Mr. Baker, a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump. “That’s a very hard decision to defend in a democracy.”

The wrangling since Tuesday has evoked many memories and not a few post-traumatic stress flashbacks from the showdown in Florida that riveted the world. Figures like Mr. Baker, now retired and spending much of his time at his Texas ranch after recovering from the coronavirus, have been evoked as proxies for the current debate. But the comparisons only go so far.

In the 2000 episode, Mr. Bush, the Republican candidate, and Al Gore, the Democrat, did not start their legal fight until after the votes in Florida were already counted. Mr. Bush finished election night with a lead of 1,784 votes out of some six million cast in the state that would ultimately determine which candidate would win the Electoral College. Because the margin was so small, an automatic machine recount was then conducted, upholding Mr. Bush’s lead.

Arguing that some ballots were improperly disqualified or otherwise not counted, Mr. Gore’s team went to court asking for hand recounts in four heavily Democratic counties while Mr. Baker argued that the votes did not need to be counted again. By the time the Supreme Court halted the process more than a month later on the grounds that different counties were applying different standards, Mr. Bush’s lead had been pared to 537, still enough to win.

Mr. Trump, by comparison, has sought to prevent even the first round of counting and to exclude whole batches of mail-in ballots. In a middle-of-the-night appearance after the closing of the polls, the president characterized the routine counting of votes as an effort to steal the election without any evidence at all. “STOP THE COUNT!” he wrote on Twitter on Thursday as his lawyers tried in vain to do just that. While Mr. Bush was trying to preserve his victory, Mr. Trump is trying to overturn what may be his opponent’s.

“There are huge differences,” Mr. Baker said of the Florida battle and the brewing fights over this week’s election. “For one thing, our whole argument was that the votes have been counted and they’ve been counted and they’ve been counted and it’s time to end the process. That’s not exactly the message I heard on election night. And so I think it’s pretty hard to be against counting the votes.”

As an example, he criticized the Republican effort to throw out 127,000 votes in Harris County, which includes his hometown, Houston, because they were cast through a drive-through system that the party objected to. “I didn’t think that was a particularly wise thing to do and, as it turns out, it wasn’t wise legally because they’ve lost in state court and in federal court,” he said.

That in some ways mirrored one of the side battles in the Florida fight when Democrats asked courts to throw out 25,000 absentee ballots in two other counties because of “irregularities” with the way the ballot applications were handled. Two Florida judges rejected the effort, ruling that any procedural issues by local authorities did not justify preventing voters from having their ballots counted.

One of the lawyers who argued against the Republican effort in Texas this week was Benjamin L. Ginsberg, one of the nation’s most pre-eminent Republican election lawyers and part of Mr. Baker’s recount team in 2000. In a friend of the court brief in federal court, Mr. Ginsberg compared the Texas Republican bid to exclude the drive-through ballots to the fight over the 25,000 ballots in Florida.

In an interview, Mr. Ginsberg said Mr. Trump’s effort to stop the count wholesale was dangerous. “It’s part and parcel of him tearing down the democratic core institution of free elections by saying they’re rigged without providing any real evidence,” he said.

Mr. Ginsberg was part of the all-star Republican legal team that Mr. Baker assembled in Florida on the fly. Among them were three future members of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Brett M. Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett, as well as a future senator, Ted Cruz of Texas; a future national security adviser, John R. Bolton; and prominent lawyers like Theodore Olson and Michael Carvin.

Mr. Trump, for his part, has had little luck attracting anything like that kind of high-level Republican legal firepower this week, relying on Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, and his sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, among others, to carry his message.

Mr. Baker, who ran five Republican presidential campaigns, has been sharply critical of Mr. Trump at times and refused to publicly endorse him, but still voted for him this fall, citing fears of a “far left” agenda if Democrats led by former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. were to take over.

Mr. Baker said that Mr. Trump has every right to pursue any legitimate challenges after the votes are counted. “You’re entitled to contest or question the results of any election in any state until you’re satisfied that it’s been conducted fairly and openly,” he said. “That’s not failing to accept a peaceful transition of power.”

Mr. Baker agreed that Mr. Trump should find someone like Mr. Baker to serve as a field marshal. “Message discipline,” he said, “is particularly important in something like this.”

But at 90, he is ready for it to be someone else.





No.30 article:
California Bars Insurers From Dropping Policies in Wildfire Areas

The new one-year freeze is a sign of the growing financial burden caused by climate change.

As California reels from this year’s record wildfires, the state announced on Thursday that it would prevent insurance companies from dropping homeowners for one year in many parts of the state, a sign of the growing financial turmoil caused by climate change.

The measure, which applies to almost one-fifth of the state’s residential insurance market, prohibits companies from canceling or refusing to renew insurance policies for 2.1 million households in or near areas hit by this year’s wildfires.

The announcement reflects the increasing strain that climate change has placed on California, which had imposed a similar moratorium once before, at a smaller scale. As rising temperatures and longer droughts make wildfires more devastating, some insurers have responded to enormous financial losses by leaving fire-prone communities. That threatens the economies of those areas, because homes that can’t easily be insured are harder to sell, and nearly impossible to rebuild after a fire.

California’s struggles are a preview of the threat that climate change poses to the long-term economic health of communities around the country. Insurers have begun pulling back from fire-prone areas in other states across the West. And in communities near oceans or rivers, the increasing cost of flood insurance poses a similar risk, driving down home values and make them harder to sell.

In response to growing climate risks, state officials have intervened to stop insurers from leaving high-risk areas. In December, California’s insurance commissioner, Ricardo Lara, for the first time imposed a similar one-year moratorium on insurers dropping coverage for more than 1 million policyholders in or near areas affected by wildfires.

Mr. Lara’s office declined to make him available for an interview. In a statement, he said the new policy “gives millions of Californians breathing room and hits the pause button on insurance non-renewals while we take additional steps to expand our competitive market.”

Still, the state’s ability to shield homeowners from the consequences of climate change is limited. The moratorium cannot be extended, which means that insurers who want to stop offering coverage in high-risk areas will eventually be able to do so.

Insurers have said that if the state wants them to keep doing business in those areas, officials must make it easier to allow insurance companies to charge higher premiums, reflecting what they say is the true risk from wildfires.

A bill that would have allowed insurers to take those steps, including justifying rate increases using computer models that predict future risk, failed to pass the state legislature this year after consumer groups said it would impose an unfair burden on homeowners.

In a statement, two groups that represent insurers, the American Property Casualty Insurance Association and the Personal Insurance Federation of California, did not take a position on the moratorium. The groups said that more frequent wildfires bring a higher risk of property damage, “and we need to adapt to this new reality.”  

“It is important that we work together on solutions that increase insurance availability in high-fire risk areas and protect against insurer insolvency,” the statement added.

People who lose access to private insurance can still buy coverage from a high-risk state program called the Fair Access to Insurance Requirements plan. But that coverage is typically more expensive and covers fewer types of damage.

The state’s longer-term strategy involves encouraging local officials to reduce exposure and vulnerability to wildfire, through tougher building codes or rules about managing the vegetation around homes.

“If we don’t want to be in this position every year, we have to reduce the risk to lives and homes,” Mr. Lara said.

But the most promising changes tend to be restrictions on home construction in vulnerable areas. And those restrictions provoke strong pushback in California, where high housing prices have left many people struggling to find homes they can afford, creating pressure to keep building in high-risk areas.

Carolyn Kousky, executive director of the Wharton Risk Center at the University of Pennsylvania, described the new moratorium as a temporary measure that would not solve the underlying problem of growing climate risk.

“This problem’s not going to go away. That raises a lot of questions about how we’re building and where we’re building,” Dr. Kousky said. “Clearly the market needs something much beyond this.”





No.31 article:
Is America Becoming a Failed State?

Mitch McConnell may make the nation ungovernable.

As I write this, it seems extremely likely that Joe Biden has won the presidency. And he clearly received millions more votes than his opponent. He can and should claim that he has been given a strong mandate to govern the nation.

But there are real questions about whether he will, in fact, be able to govern. At the moment, it seems likely that the Senate — which is wildly unrepresentative of the American people — will remain in the hands of an extremist party that will sabotage Biden in every way it can.

Before I get into the problems this confrontation is likely to cause, let’s talk about just how unrepresentative the Senate is.

Every state, of course, has two senators — which means that Wyoming’s 579,000 residents have as much weight as California’s 39 million. The overweighted states tend to be much less urbanized than the nation as a whole. And given the growing political divide between metropolitan and rural areas, this gives the Senate a strong rightward tilt.

An analysis by the website FiveThirtyEight.com found that the Senate in effect represents an electorate almost seven percentage points more Republican than the average voter. Cases like Susan Collins, who held on in a Democratic state, are exceptions; the underlying right-wing skew of the Senate is the main reason the G.O.P. will probably retain control despite a substantial Democratic victory in the presidential popular vote.

But, you may ask, why is divided control of government such a problem? After all, Republicans controlled one or both chambers of Congress for three-quarters of Barack Obama’s presidency, and we survived, didn’t we?

Yes, but.

In fact, G.O.P. obstruction did a lot of damage even during the Obama years. Republicans used hardball tactics, including threats to cause a default on the national debt, to force a premature withdrawal of fiscal support that slowed the pace of economic recovery. I’ve estimated that without this de facto sabotage, the unemployment rate in 2014 might have been about two percentage points lower than it actually was.

And the need for more spending is even more acute now than it was in 2011, when Republicans took control of the House.

Most immediately, the coronavirus is running wild, with new cases exceeding 100,000 a day and rising rapidly. This is going to hit the economy hard, even if state and local governments don’t impose new lockdowns.

We desperately need a new round of federal spending on health care, aid to the unemployed and businesses, and support for strapped state and local governments. Reasonable estimates suggest that we should spend $200 billion or more each month until a vaccine brings the pandemic to an end. I’d be shocked if a Senate still controlled by Mitch McConnell would agree to anything like this.

Even after the pandemic is over, we’re likely to face both persistent economic weakness and a desperate need for more public investment. But McConnell effectively blocked infrastructure spending even with Donald Trump in the White House. Why would he become more amenable with Biden in office?

Now, spending isn’t the only form of policy. Normally, there are many things a president can achieve for good (Obama) or evil (Trump) through executive action. In fact, during the summer a Democratic task force identified hundreds of things a President Biden could do without having to go through Congress.

But here’s where I worry about the role of a heavily partisan Supreme Court — a court shaped by McConnell’s norm-breaking behavior, including the rushed confirmation of Amy Coney Barrett just days before the election.

Six of nine justices were chosen by a party that has won the popular vote only once in the past eight elections. And I think there’s a substantial chance that this court may behave like the Supreme Court in the 1930s, which kept blocking New Deal programs until F.D.R. threatened to add seats — something Biden wouldn’t be able to do with a Republican-controlled Senate.

So we are in big trouble. Trump’s defeat would mean that we have, for the moment, avoided a plunge into authoritarianism — and yes, the stakes are that high, not just because of who Trump is, but also because the modern G.O.P. is so extremist and anti-democratic. But our skewed electoral system means that Trump’s party is still in a position to hobble, perhaps cripple, the next president’s ability to deal with the huge epidemiological, economic and environmental problems we face.

Put it this way: If we were looking at a foreign country with America’s level of political dysfunction, we would probably consider it on the edge of becoming a failed state — that is, a state whose government is no longer able to exert effective control.

Runoff elections in Georgia may yet give Democrats Senate control; barring that, Biden might be able to find a few reasonable Republicans willing to pull us back from that brink. But despite his apparent victory, the Republic remains in great danger.





No.32 article:
Rem Koolhaas Gives Beleaguered City Folk a Trip to the Countryside

This much we knew by Tuesday night: at the electoral level, at least, the divide between America’s cities and its hinterlands seems deeper than ever, with urban and rural having become almost synonyms for blue and red.

The surprise that initially greeted this entrenched polarization reinforces, all too well, the thrust of the current exhibition at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: that the true terra incognita is outside of town. “Countryside, the Future,” organized by the Dutch architect and theorist Rem Koolhaas, argues that architects, intellectuals and politicians have focused on metropolitan life to the point of myopia, and have missed convulsive changes — demographic ones, political ones, technological ones — in sparsely populated regions.

Five years in the making, “Countryside” opened on Feb. 20 and closed three weeks later because of the coronavirus pandemic. The show is almost devoid of architecture as such, and instead examines the design history of nonurban areas through assemblages of historical propaganda and contemporary advertisements; torrents of agricultural statistics; and showcases of robotic tractors and crop-seeding drones. As my colleague Michael Kimmelman wrote upon its opening, it has “something of the aesthetic of an old Soviet World’s Fair pavilion,” though the cacophonous exhibition design draws as much from today’s meme culture as from yesterday’s trade expositions.

It elicited almost universally negative reviews. What was this, some Prada-sponsored Dutch remake of “Green Acres”? Who do you think you are, jumping on the work of real scholars and the lives of real country folk? And why are you addressing only an urban public … in a show on Fifth Avenue?

Well, not for the first time, events have proved Mr. Koolhaas prescient, and both health and political crises have strengthened the show’s suggestion that the city is yesterday’s news. I didn’t love “Countryside” either at first, but, back at the Guggenheim for the first time since March, I found myself more impressed than before with the show’s attention to new forms of rural life — especially the digital technologies that are transforming the countryside, and the massive warehouses and robust delivery systems reshaping rural and urban economies alike.

It plainly remains a messy, random, arch, inconclusive exhibition, and brings the same dispassionate — or cynical — gaze to the countryside that Mr. Koolhaas applied earlier to Chinese urbanization, to the mixing of art and commerce, and to the use and misuse of architectural preservation. There are shallow, cherry-picked assemblages (like a collection of Vogue covers shot in the provinces, featuring Rihanna frolicking in a wheat field) and weird detours (two whole bays on gorilla habitats?). A major blind spot is the exhibition’s indifference to Indigenous populations, and their past and contemporary management of land.

Where it succeeds most is in its insistence on the cosmopolitanism and dynamism of the countryside — where things can happen faster, and ambitions can be greater, than in the stultified cities of the West. Our theaters and nightclubs are gone, municipal shortfalls look certain, and urban-refugee parents are infiltrating the P.T.A.s of farm-country elementary schools. Is it perhaps not time, as Chairman Mao might say, for a return to “Countryside”?

Along the winding museum ramps, Mr. Koolhaas and his team — including Samir Bantal, Troy Conrad Therrien, and three columns’ worth of credited collaborators and students — hopscotch from Siberia to Kenya, from the Mojave Desert to the Japanese mountains, to correct the architectural profession’s urban monomania. The show presents Nazi, Soviet and Maoist agricultural development plans, tacitly admiring their scale and ambition, briefly noting the millions of dead bodies that accompanied them.

There are the socialist schemes of Charles Fourier, who designed self-contained utopian societies for work, study, farming and sex. Visions of Roman villas and Chinese literati gazing at mountains give way to back-to-the-land hippiedom circa Ken Kesey, then to wellness retreats and the eco-bunkers of catastrophist millionaires.

Certainly New Yorkers’ revaluation of the countryside had begun long before the “Decameron”-style outflows of remote-working urbanites and their families, fleeing the coronavirus last spring. (No point denying that I was one of them. Born in New York, I spent more time in the countryside this year than I have in my entire life, holing up in rural Massachusetts and driving past farms with an equal distribution of Black Lives Matter and Make America Great Again yard signs.) The phrase “farm to table” has been a cliché for years, and Park Slope idealists long ago exported their Marie Antoinette rural fantasies to the Hudson Valley.

Yet the pandemic — now scything through sparsely populated regions as much as dense ones — has judderingly accelerated new encounters between the city and its outskirts. Everyone from the farmers’ market to the real estate brokerage can tell you that the arrival of high-speed broadband in the countryside has flattened the space between urban and rural. Add now the pandemic’s crushing of in-person work, and your life in a Vermont forest or a Barbadian beach town might not look so different from your life in town.

After all, the same digital commerce that has destroyed your Jane Jacobs-approved urban neighborhood has also made possible a whole new life in the countryside, smoothed by just-in-time logistics software, enlivened by deliveries by drone. “What perverted genius thought of the name ‘fulfillment center’?” asks Mr. Koolhaas in an early gallery.

Near the end of “Countryside” is a rapturous paean to the Tahoe Reno Industrial Center, in the Nevada desert — said to be the largest industrial zone in the world — whose enormous, windowless warehouses shelter the logistics operations of Walmart, Google, FedEx, and the Pioneer Nut Company. In this deregulated paradise, perfected by algorithms and staffed by robots, the Dutch architect finds a post-human architecture more innovative, and pitiless, than anything back in town. One of the show’s most bitter jokes is a mural-size photo of Mr. Koolhaas’s unmistakable bald head gazing out on the warehouses, in the same rearview pose as Casper David Friedrich’s famous “Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog.” The desert factory, not the megacity, offers the best view of the capitalist sublime.

Perhaps the strongest sections of “Countryside” are devoted to China, with several case studies of villages transformed by new logistics technology and digital commerce platforms. One town has become a leading producer of Ikea-knockoff flat-pack furniture; another has raised living standards by selling organic pumpkins to lodgers in renovated stone houses. (Students at Beijing’s Central Academy of Fine Arts did the research here.) Rural farmers sell apples fresh from the tree on the social network Kuaishou, the country cousin of TikTok. There’s even a replica of the desk of a Chinese provincial official, backed by a film extolling President Xi Jinping’s youth in the Shaanxi countryside.

It was, of course, Mr. Koolhaas’s firm that designed the Beijing headquarters of Chinese state television a decade ago, and mock-Maoist echoes of the Cultural Revolution ripple through this exhibition: intellectuals “learning from the countryside”; bureaucrats sent down to the farm. Its undisguised admiration for Xi’s China, not to mention its almost nostalgic gaze on colonial expansion and Soviet development, doubles down on Mr. Koolhaas’s nonideological esteem for world-reshaping ambitions. “This is what we have lost in the disaster of the modern project: the ability to think big,” he wrote a quarter of a century ago in “S M L XL,” his doorstop book with Bruce Mau.

I’d suggest that the critical drubbing “Countryside” initially received bespeaks a total exhaustion with such grand efforts, and a sense that — for young audiences especially — today’s overlapping emergencies have invalidated the ironic distance encapsulated in that photo of Mr. Koolhaas looking out over the Nevada industrial park.

And yes, there is something dated in Mr. Koolhaas’s go-big approach, and careless in its omnivorous, oversaturated walls of Googled “research” outsourced to architecture students. Certainly this show’s sections on Chinese localism, or Kenyan microfinance, or the physical architecture of the internet, have already been studied far more rigorously elsewhere. Certainly this nail-biter of an election should leave all of us skeptical of the generalizations urban observers make of country life.

But I am not so sure — and I say this as a journalist, Mr. Koolhaas’s first profession — that the always-online urbanites fed up with his irony and affirmation should be so proud of themselves, either. He may have a fatalistic acceptance of the world Xi Jinping and Jeff Bezos have forged, but his cool gaze and his critics’ disdain for big pronouncements do not come from such different places. What “Countryside” does is take seriously the contention that all avant-gardism gets commodified, that dissent is always co-opted, and that under such conditions you might want to get out of town. “More than ever, the city is all we have,” he wrote in “S M L XL.” We don’t even have that anymore.





No.33 article:
Corrections: Nov. 6, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, Nov. 6, 2020.

An article on Thursday about the Democrats’ inability to gain a majority in the Senate misstated the length of time Joseph R. Biden served in the Senate. He was a senator for more than 35 years, not 45.

An article on Thursday about disinformation targeting Latinos misstated whom QAnon adherents falsely believe is part of a global cabal. It is Joseph R. Biden Jr., not President Trump. (They believe, also falsely, that the president is battling such a cabal.)

An article on Thursday about lawsuits pursued by President Trump in states that he lost in the election misidentified one of the Supreme Court justices who signaled an openness to reconsidering an extension of Pennsylvania’s deadline for counting ballots. Justice Neil M. Gorsuch was one of the three justices taking that position, not Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.

An article on Sunday about President Trump’s first-term promises misstated the affiliation of the Tax Policy Center. It is a joint partnership between the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, it is not run by the Brookings Institution.

A selection of photographs with an obituary on Oct. 24 about the British publisher Tom Maschler was published in error. The photographs were of American editions of three books — not the British versions published by Mr. Maschler’s company, Jonathan Cape. The obituary also referred incorrectly to the pop-up book “The Human Body,” which Jonathan Cape published in 1983. It was not among the first such books; pop-up books had a long history by then.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.34 article:
7 Things to Do This Weekend

Our critics and writers have selected noteworthy cultural events to experience virtually or in person in New York City.

Disco’s foothold in pop has grown considerably this year — even though the world’s dance floors have never been so quiet. While Dua Lipa strapped on her roller skates and tipped her cap to Madonna’s “Confessions on the Dance Floor,” Jessie Ware went full-on Studio 54 with “What’s Your Pleasure?,” her album from June. Other recent dabblers in the genre include Selena Gomez and Doja Cat.

And then there’s Kylie Minogue. Both Lipa and Ware have been vocal in their admiration of the Australian singer, who, despite occasional dalliances with other styles (country on 2018’s “Golden” or techno on 2003’s “Body Language”), has been a reliable producer of disco-pop for decades. In fact, “Disco” is an apt title for her 15th studio album, due out on Friday. The record is packed with glitter bombs; there’s nary a ballad to be found.

To celebrate the release, Minogue is presenting “Kylie: Infinite Disco,” a ticketed digital concert that will stream several times, including at 8 p.m. Eastern time on Saturday. It’s no D.I.Y. affair, unlike many virtual performances in this era. Fans can expect a characteristically glitzy performance from Minogue, complete with lasers and a full backing choir. Tickets are $20 and available at dice.fm.OLIVIA HORN

Throughout this year, galleries have been trying to come up with safe ways to display art to the public. For “Paper Mirror” — the latest installment of 601 Artspace’s “Storefront Exhibition” series, which closes on Monday — the married artists Jennifer and Kevin McCoy recreated, with intricate line drawings, the reflection of buildings across from the gallery’s facade window, establishing a type of wider narrative on whether storefronts serve as the clearest indicator of urban health (or lack thereof). On Saturday, from 2 to 4 p.m., the McCoys will discuss the project in a socially distanced chat in front of the installation.

The city has been historically at odds with street art, but it is occasionally embraced, in the right context. For the latest Houston Bowery Wall, located on Houston Street between Elizabeth and Bowery Streets, the muralist Raúl Ayala pairs Black figures with mythical creatures. Further north, in front of the Vessel at the Hudson Yards for the public art initiative HYxOffTheWall, Elle and Key Detail have created two large-scale murals that celebrate the city’s resilience.

Nearby at Lehmann Maupin, Billie Zangewa portrays, in scenes composed of vividly colored silk, what that resilience was borne out of: our isolation after spending months at home. On view through Saturday, the exhibition is indoors, but the gallery is enforcing mask wearing and social distancing.MELISSA SMITH

Starved of live shows since March, dance fans have gone online for archival recordings and short new works created in quarantine with generally low production values (but with many gems among them). This month, though, Netflix has stepped up with the debut of “Move,” a five-part documentary that applies the streaming service’s high-gloss aesthetics and sharp storytelling to some of dance’s most revered figures.

The first episode focuses on the captivating artists Jon Boogz and Lil Buck, who have expanded the parameters and perceptions of the street-dance forms popping and jookin. (A scene of Buck slithering on the hood of an old Buick is a treat that only film can deliver.) Subsequent episodes feature the dances of the Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin, the pioneering Spanish flamenco phenom Israel Galván, the ferocious Jamaican dancehall performer Kimiko Versatile, and Akram Khan, the British dance maker of Bangladeshi descent who weaves classical Indian dance and contemporary dance into gorgeous theatrical tapestries.

Each an hour or less, the episodes mix handsomely shot dance excerpts with interviews and insight into the artists’ personal worlds, connecting their work and their lives in ways not generally seen onstage. Savor with restraint, or binge at will.BRIAN SCHAEFER

“What if I told you there was a reason for it all?” declares the alt-right country singer Tammy Faye Starlite at the top of her new show “Standing By.” Claiming to know the causes behind the disease, geopolitical displacement and chaos that have plagued us this year, she dissects modern America through classic rock and country songs, in preparation for the “great awakening,” a rapture-like event she mentions in the show.

Starlite is the persona created by the left-wing artist Tammy Lang, as an exercise in empathy toward the positions of those on the other side of the political spectrum. But Lang knows there is no place for contempt when you’re trying to see the world through the eyes of others.

And so when Starlite unironically turns to the Rolling Stones’ “Sympathy for the Devil” or the Who’s “Won’t Get Fooled Again” to prove her points, she reveals a literalist — someone whose fear is real, albeit misguided.

“Standing By” is the first show in the Ghost Light Series of livestreams from Pangea. Starting at $20 for individual viewers, you can stream a 48-hour rental through showtix4u.com until Nov. 23. If you’ve seen Starlite perform live, you know her rawness and magnetism are breathtaking. But in the intimacy of this filmed version, we have an opportunity to listen without distractions. May it grant us some sympathy as well.JOSE SOLÍS

The chamber ensemble known as counter)induction is celebrating its 20th anniversary with an album titled “Against Method,” which is scheduled for release on Friday. Though focused on experimental repertoire, the group isn’t beholden to any single trend line in contemporary American classical style. Pieces by the band’s artistic directors, Douglas Boyce and Kyle Bartlett, open the set and give a sense of the variation to come.

Boyce’s opus, “The Hunt by Night,” has a gamboling quality, derived from jaunty interplay between piano, cello and clarinet. Bartlett’s “Before” vaults from whispery timbres to percussive outbursts. Elsewhere, the composer Alvin Singleton — a distinguished elder whose works are too rarely heard in mainstream concert halls — finally gets a premiere recording of a 1997 composition, “Ein Kleines Volkslied.”

The Mozart reference aside, Singleton’s item is best appreciated as a part of his consistently striking catalog. In the second minute, entertaining handoffs between the electric guitar and bass clarinet prepare the listener for subsequent pairings (as with the vibraphone and piano, heard together in the third minute). The ensemble’s lineup adds a few guest players here to meet the composer’s instrumental requirements. Whether taking on Singleton’s crisp, songful cries or his denser hazes, this retinue handles the composer’s quick-changing music with grace.SETH COLTER WALLS

In April, a clip of a middle-aged man spitting vitriol (and actual spit) from behind the wheel of his car went viral, as his pleas for the federal government to help working Americans survive the pandemic reached millions of viewers on Twitter and Facebook within days.

That man was the 59-year-old comedian Vic DiBitetto, and it wasn’t his first brush with video fame. His 28-second “Bread and Milk” video from 2013, which lampooned supermarket hoarding, has more than 19 million views on YouTube.

The Brooklyn native and former Staten Island school bus driver, who now lives in New Jersey, has other comedy credits, too. Back in the early 1990s, DiBitetto performed on “America’s Funniest People,” and he played a security guard in “Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2.” But DiBitetto really took off this year with his “Ticked Off Vic” videos — imagine the TV anchor from the 1976 film “Network” crossed with Andrew Dice Clay espousing the workingman values of Bruce Springsteen.

To hear what’s on DiBitetto’s mind in real time, he’s headlining a stand-up show at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time on Saturday at Nowhere Comedy Club, a virtual space created by comedians to fill the void left by the lockdown. Tickets, which start at $20, are available through Eventbrite.SEAN L. McCARTHY

Most adolescents love congregating, a pastime that the pandemic has severely limited. But since crowds aren’t a concern on the internet, the Metropolitan Museum of Art has adapted Teens Take the Met! — its twice-yearly free festival for ages 13 to 18 — into a virtual event that’s bigger than ever: Young people anywhere can attend.

On Friday from 3 to 8 p.m. Eastern time, the museum will present more than 30 activities on the @metteens Instagram account and the social media platforms of partner organizations, like Lincoln Center and the New York Public Library. Participants are encouraged to register online, but they must do so by noon on Friday to enroll in several offerings that are on Zoom. One is the new V.I.P. Lounge, a cyberspot for meeting friends, making art and hearing music from the D.J.s at Building Beats.

The opportunities for imaginative leaps include movement sessions with Teens@Graham and the program Airheads: The Science of Flight with the Intrepid Sea, Air &amp; Space Museum. Attendees can also make activist posters with El Museo del Barrio, create poetry with Urban Word NYC, investigate Shakespeare with Titan Theater Company and do improv with ArtsConnection. While visual-art workshops abound, teenagers can also explore subjects like contraception, civil rights and healthy relationships. (A full schedule is at metmuseum.org.)LAUREL GRAEBER





No.35 article:
Suspect Arrested in Deadly Ambush of Mormon Family

A year after the attack, nobody has been convicted of the crime, infuriating relatives and casting further doubt on the Mexican justice system.

MEXICO CITY — A year after the massacre of nine members of a Mormon family in northern Mexico, a suspect was arrested on homicide charges in connection with the case, Mexican officials said.

The man, whom the authorities identified only as “Alfredo ‘L’” and a member of a criminal group operating in northern Mexico, was detained in the border city of Ciudad Juárez on Wednesday, exactly a year after gunmen ambushed the family as they drove in a convoy along an isolated desert road in the state of Sonora.

The nine victims included six children and three women, all dual Mexican and American citizens who lived in the region where they were attacked.

No one has been convicted in the killings, which stunned Mexico and the United States. The case has remained a stain on the administration of President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who has struggled to find an effective approach to reducing violence in the country.

Mexican authorities, in a brief announcement publicizing the arrest, offered scant information about the suspect, whom they said was a “likely participant in the events that occurred on November 4, 2019.”

According to Mexico’s attorney general’s office, 12 suspects have been arrested in connection with the case though only two of them, including the man arrested this week, have been accused of murder. The other 10 are facing other charges, including illegal possession of weapons and organized crime, officials said.

Far from celebrating the latest arrest, members of the extended family expressed deep disappointment, frustration and anger about the fact that a year after the murder of their relatives, nobody had been convicted of the crimes.

“It’s absolutely infuriating,” Julian LeBarón, the first cousin of two of the women killed in the attack, said in an interview on Thursday. “It’s the easiest thing in the world for the government to say, ‘We know who did it and we’re going to catch them all,’ but it’s almost impossible to send someone to prison for murder.”

He said the inability of the authorities to solve the crime clearly underscored the weaknesses of the Mexican law enforcement and justice systems and the degree to which they were undermined by malfeasance. Very few homicides in Mexico end in a conviction.

“It’s so obvious to anyone with common sense that you don’t get to almost 100 percent impunity without a rottenness and corruption that’s eroded the institutions to their core,” said Mr. LeBarón, 42, who has conducted a high-profile campaign to pressure the Mexican authorities and the president’s administration to solve the case.

The family members were ambushed while driving in three sport utility vehicles in a rural area of Sonora where Mormon groups that splintered from the main United States church began settling in the early 20th century.

In the days after the attack, the authorities suggested that it could have been a case of mistaken identity, and said they were exploring the possibility that it was related to a conflict between two criminal groups fighting for control of that region and its lucrative trafficking routes for drugs, weapons and other contraband.

Because the victims had American citizenship and frequently moved between the two countries, Mexican officials agreed to give their counterparts in the United States full access to their investigative files.

When Mr. López Obrador took office in 2018, he vowed to end his predecessors’ war on drugs, an approach that had relied on the military. Instead, he promised, he would address the roots of crime by tackling poverty through social development programs and investment — a strategy he referred to as “hugs, not bullets.”

And yet, the effort has not significantly lowered the national murder tally.

Asked whether he thought there was anything to celebrate in the latest arrest in connection with his family’s case, Mr. LeBarón said, “We’ve understood who the top dogs are, and this is not one of them.”

He said the attention drawn by the case, which made international news, left him feeling an obligation to speak up for other families and to push the government to do more to reduce the nation’s violence.

“It’s been 366 days since my cousins were murdered — and their children — and if they cannot solve this case, just imagine what’s it’s like for the families that cannot sit down with the president, that cannot ask America for help,” he said. “The fact that we can makes it seem that we have 10 times more responsibility to speak out.”




No.1 article:
US removes shadowy group from terror list blamed by China for attacks

State department says ‘no credible’ evidence the East Turkestan Islamic Movement exists 

The United States has removed from its list of terror groups a shadowy faction regularly blamed by China to justify its harsh crackdown in the Muslim-majority Xinjiang region.

In a notice in the Federal Register, which publishes new US laws and rules, the secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said on Friday he was revoking the designation of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) as a “terrorist organization.”

“ETIM was removed from the list because, for more than a decade, there has been no credible evidence that ETIM continues to exist,” a state department spokesperson said.

The administration of George W Bush in 2004 added ETIM, also sometimes called the Turkestan Islamic Party, to a blacklist as it found common cause with China in the US-led “war on terror”.

Beijing has regularly blamed ETIM for attacks as it justifies its measures in Xinjiang, where rights groups say that 1 million or more Uighurs or other Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim people are incarcerated in camps.

But scholars say that China has produced little evidence that ETIM is an organised group or that it is to blame for attacks in Xinjiang, which separatists call East Turkestan.

The Washington-based Uighur Human Rights Project called the decision “long overdue” and a “definitive rejection of China’s claims”.

“The harmful effects of China’s exploitation of the imagined ETIM threat are real – 20 years of state terror directed at Uighurs,” said the group’s executive director, Omer Kanat.

China has acknowledged camps in Xinjiang but describes them as vocational centres meant to reduce the allure of Islamic radicalism.

While experts have doubted a role of ETIM, China has suffered a series of attacks that authorities blamed on Uighur separatists.

In 2014, assailants stabbed to death 31 passengers at a railway station in the south-western city of Kunming.

In 2009, hundreds died in Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi in riots that largely targeted China’s majority Han.

Activists say that China is trying to forcibly integrate Uighurs by indoctrinating them with communist ideology and making them renounce Islamic customs.

Pompeo has previously called the mass incarceration “the stain of the century” and US senators across party lines are seeking to declare China’s treatment of the Uighurs genocide.

ETIM was listed on the US terrorist exclusion list, which affects entry of people into the country, but was never hit with the tougher designation of foreign terrorist organization.





No.2 article:
US again breaks daily Covid-19 record with 121,000 cases recorded Thursday

Country surpassed record set on 30 October and hospitalizations and deaths have also begun to increase

The United States has broken its record for the highest number of new Covid-19 infections in a single day yet again, with more than 121,000 new cases recorded on Thursday.

As the country’s attention has been trained on the presidential election, the US has continued to break daily records for new Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the day after the election, the country saw more than 107,000 cases, the first time the US surpassed 100,000 new cases in a single day. Before that, the record was set on 30 October with just over 99,000 new cases.

Along with new cases rising, hospitalizations and deaths have slowly begun to increase. About 53,000 people were hospitalized with Covid-19 on Thursday. The number of Covid fatalities across the country was over 1,000 for the third day in a row, with 1,210 deaths on Thursday.

Altogether, the US has had more than 9.6m cases of Covid-19 and 234,000 deaths since the start of the pandemic – the most of any country.

Unlike previous surges of the virus in the US, this increase is not concentrated in a single region. Initial increases were seen in the American heartland, particularly in the Dakotas and Wisconsin. In recent weeks, there have been surges in Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado and Minnesota. Increases have also been seen on the east coast, in Maine, Connecticut and Rhode Island. Only two states – Tennessee and Alabama – have had drops in cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.

Public health experts have sounded the alarm for weeks over a potential surge in cases as the weather starts to cool in many parts of the country. Now, it is clear that their warnings were prescient.

While Donald Trump was saying that the country is “absolutely rounding the corner” with the virus, the White House’s coronavirus taskforce was striking a completely different note in its reports. “There is a continued increase in cases, hospitalizations and fatalities nationally, spreading southward from the coldest climates as the population moves indoors and cases increase exponentially,” according to a report dated 1 November and obtained by CNN.

In the reports, the taskforce emphasized that people need to “act now” and encouraged public health measures such as wearing masks and limiting gatherings with people outside one’s household.

In an interview with the Washington Post on 30 October, Dr Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease expert, said that the recent increases were only the start of a winter surge.

“We’re in for a whole lot of hurt. It’s not a good situation,” he said. “All the stars are aligned in the wrong place as you go into fall and winter season, with people congregating at home indoors. You could not possibly be positioned more poorly.”

Fauci emphasized that there would need to be “abrupt changes” in order to curb the spread. But as countries in Europe begin their weeks-long shutdowns, state and local officials in the United States have been reluctant to enact restrictions even amid surges in cases.

North Dakota and South Dakota are the only states that do not have full or partial mask mandates. Tony Evers, Wisconsin’s governor, has made pleas to the state’s residents to stay at home and limit interactions, but has not implemented a mandatory stay-at-home order.

Recent polls have shown the effects of pandemic fatigue – people getting tired of following strict Covid-19 guidelines – even though the virus’s spread is worsening. A Gallup poll from October showed that fewer Americans are avoiding contact with people outside their households and more are no longer working from home.





No.3 article:
Vulnerable to cyclones, volcanoes and the impacts of climate change, the Pacific archipelago is using blockchain technology to provide aid money directly to families recovering from natural disasters

The most at-risk country on earth to natural disasters, Vanuatu has endured two major volcanic eruptions and two category five cyclones in the past half-decade, affecting more than half the population.

Through resolute border closures, the Pacific archipelago has escaped infection from Covid-19, but the resultant loss of tourism revenues has devastated the local economy.

Vanuatu is a country, sadly, too used to fighting back from disaster. But it is a country, too, seeking new paths to recovery.

Vanuatu is pioneering Unblocked Cash, a mobile-based development project using blockchain technology, along with tap-and-pay cards, to provide direct assistance to families recovering from disasters or acute financial distress.

The cards can be ‘loaded’ with money, to act like a debit card, allowing families to directly buy food, medicine, clothes, and other emergency supplies, even hardware to rebuild destroyed homes.

Sandra Uwantege Hart, head of Pacific cash and livelihoods for Oxfam in Vanuatu, told the Guardian the project emerged out of an effort to “shift the delivery model for humanitarian assistance… from goods to cash and vouchers”.

The approach “is more market-friendly, [and] gives people more dignity and flexibility”.

It’s also, proponents argue, more efficient. Traditionally, it typically costs between $2 - $3 to deploy $1 worth of aid post-disaster. The digital model reduces aid distribution costs by up to 75%, Oxfam claims, taking only three minutes to register each new recipient on the network. Older approaches could take over an hour.

Over the next few months, over 35,000 new participants across Vanuatu are expected to be enrolled in the project, jointly funded by New Zealand and Australia.

Hart and over a dozen local partner groups have spent several years seeking ways to put money directly into the pockets of those most affected by disaster.

Financial services infrastructure across Vanuatu’s islands “is our weakest link”, Hart said. Unblocked Cash, she said, establishes a cashless payment system with few overheads.

The project doesn’t use cryptocurrency directly, but every transaction is tokenised and stored on the Ethereum blockchain. Personal data is kept separate in compliance with international privacy standards. The project’s software – most of which is open source and can be freely shared and adapted - was written by Melbourne-based Sempo.

Traditional disaster responses are often ‘top-heavy’, and rebuilding local economies is rarely prioritised. Local businesses are often bypassed, and find themselves competing directly with external contractors, who flood recovering communities with goods at low or no cost to consumers.

The Vanuatu Business Resilience Council was founded in 2017 as a counter this, and to establish a greater role for the local private sector in disaster response.

Nicola Barnes, who helped local businesses set up for the project, said, despite some issues with digital and financial literacy, the roll-out has been broadly accepted.

She said the new system was a potentially transformative method of delivering disaster relief, and said blockchain technologies could even be integrated with existing local systems, such as QR codes installed on national ID cards.

“If it was blended in, it would make us more disaster resilient, and it would make it much quicker and easier to use immediately after a disaster.”

Trust of the unfamiliar seems to have been the biggest hurdle. One recipient said, “the first time that I have been shopping, I was afraid that there was no money on the e-voucher, but after the first time I think it was just easy”.

The project is being rolled out across the Pacific region, and around the world.

Vanuatu trainers are assisting with trials in Goroka, Papua New Guinea. A Solomon Islands project is slated to begin early in 2021, and pilot projects are underway in Colombia with collaboration from Spain.

Unblocked Cash won’t work everywhere. Places with robust electronic banking systems don’t need it. But in remote or badly damaged areas, or in places suffering hyperinflation, it offers a lightweight, efficient and low-impact means of putting cash in people’s pockets.

Centralised disaster response has often been a magnet for inflated no-bid contracts, wastage due to spoiling and theft, and favouritism when aid is distributed.

Cash, by contrast, has proven surprisingly resistant to corruption. One rollout to 2800 Vanuatu families saw three abuse complaints. Only one proved valid.

Spending is tracked and profiteering is easily discovered.

Hart also suggested that a pure cryptocurrency version of the app could be used by thousands of Pacific seasonal workers to send money home without the often-exorbitant fees and long delays of traditional remittance services.





No.4 article:
Additional sanctions are rumours, Simon Birmingham says, but the China Daily warns of further economic pain if Australia is hostile to Beijing

A major Australian business group has called on the Morrison government to take China to the world trade umpire, saying attempted talks have failed to resolve the widening dispute with Australia’s largest trading partner.

As seven export sectors braced for potential trade bans, and with ministerial level contact still frozen, the Australian Industry Group told Guardian Australia businesses would have no choice but to look for other markets “if China continues to turn its back on Australian goods and services”.

While the trade minister, Simon Birmingham, described the new sanctions as “rumours” that have not been officially confirmed, Australian trade officials have urged exporters to expand into other markets because the rocky relationship between the two countries is not likely to improve in the near future.

In an editorial, the state-run China Daily warned that Australia would “pay tremendously for its misjudgment” if it continued to back the US government’s efforts to contain China. 

The paper urged Australia to “steer clear of Washington’s brinkmanship with China before it is too late”, saying that if Canberra went out of its way to be hostile to Beijing it “will be a decision Australia will come to regret as its economy will only suffer further pain”.

The Labor leader, Anthony Albanese, said it was time for Scott Morrison to “act like the prime minister, not the prime observer” and move quickly to help Australian exporters who fear new trade bans affecting wine, lobster, sugar, coal, timber, barley and copper.

“It’s not good enough to say, ‘Well, no one will take our calls’ while our trade continues to deteriorate,” Albanese said.

“The government needs a plan to deal with this issue, because it has real-world consequences for Australian jobs, for Australian businesses and for the Australian economy.”

If these new bans eventuate, they would represent the latest in a series of trade actions taken by China amid tensions over a range of issues, including Australian investigations into alleged foreign interference, criticism of China over human rights abuses, and the Morrison government’s early call for a global Covid inquiry.

Australian barley exports to China have already largely stopped because of prohibitive 80% tariffs imposed in May, based on claims the product had been “dumped” at artificially low prices and because of unfair subsidies.

The Australian government says it reserves its right to challenge that decision via the World Trade Organization and it is understood to have raised its concerns at a standard WTO committee meeting last week.

Innes Willox, the chief executive of the Australian Industry Group, said businesses would prefer Australia to have strong high-level connections with China, which accounts for 33% of Australia’s total exports, but “when talks break down we need to rely on the independent umpire, the WTO”.

“China and Australia have long been united in advocating for the multilateral trading system and now might be the time to take our disagreements to that forum,” he said.

“Businesses are always looking to diversify but the reality is that no other market has the size or robust demand of China, which is why Australia is just one of 125 countries who count China as their largest trading partner.”

Dr Jeffrey Wilson, the research director of the Perth USAsia Centre, said referring the trade dispute to the independent umpire was a credible option for Australia, even though it could take some time for a decision.

Wilson said he believed Australia had a “very good chance of success” in the barley, cotton and coal cases. The latter two products have reportedly faced disruptions because Chinese authorities issued verbal instructions to certain businesses last month to stop buying from Australia.

On the eve of the potential new trade bans, Austrade officials held a phone hook-up with farming and business representatives on Thursday, the contents of which were first reported by the Australian newspaper.

“Quite frankly they didn’t tell us anything we didn’t know,” said a source from one of the affected sectors who was on the call.

“They couldn’t confirm any facts [about the potential new trade disruptions]. They basically said the relationship with China is poor and it doesn’t look like any chance of that improving in the foreseeable future.

“The main thing was you need to look to diversify your markets.”

It is understood officials also urged exporters to ensure they complied with all labelling and other technical requirements because there was likely to be increased scrutiny at Chinese ports.

While the message was consistent with the government’s previous public calls for trade diversification and warnings that the risk of doing business with China was increasing, it reflects heightened anxiety about how long the trade tensions may last.

Describing the phone hook-up as routine, Birmingham said the government was talking to sectors that were “concerned, understandably, given the media speculating and the rumours circulating about their trade with China”.

Birmingham said the government realised “that the best environment for our exporters to operate in is one in which they have the maximum number of choices available to them” so businesses had the opportunity “to pivot”.

That was why, the trade minister stressed, the government had either signed or was pursuing trade agreements with Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Canada, Mexico, Indonesia, the European Union and the United Kingdom, along with the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Birmingham said it was “disappointing that Chinese authorities refuse to engage” in talks at a ministerial level but Australia “stands willing to have that type of mature, responsible dialogue”.

“I note that Chinese authorities have given assurances, both publicly through their media spokespeople, and privately, that there is no concerted action of discrimination against Australia, and we want to make sure that they live up to those commitments.”

Guardian Australia understands while there has been no official confirmation of customs blockages in the targeted sectors, the uncertainty has already led some exporters to suspend or delay shipments.

China’s foreign ministry rebuffed Birmingham’s call for clarity after the state-run Global Times appeared to confirm that China had “halted seven categories of Australian goods from the market” but did not provide any further details.

The foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin, offered a general comment on Thursday that any measures on foreign imports were “in line with Chinese laws and regulations and international customary practices”.

“They protect the safety of consumers and the legitimate rights and interests of domestic industries, and are consistent with the free trade agreement between China and Australia,” Wang said.





No.5 article:
Trail blazer: Nanaia Mahuta vows to transform New Zealand diplomacy

New foreign minister promises to carve a path for women, Māori and for the country

When Jacinda Ardern appointed the veteran politician Nanaia Mahuta as New Zealand’s foreign minister, many seasoned political watchers were taken by surprise – as was Mahuta herself.

“When she put the opportunity to me, I was really, really pleased with the offer; I didn’t hesitate,” Mahuta says.

 “It’s one of the portfolios where you’d love to make a contribution but it’s highly contested, so it was on my long list,” she says.

“But I was on her short list.”

The national broadcaster, Radio New Zealand, called Mahuta’s appointment “one of the biggest surprises of the cabinet reshuffle”, while the country’s largest newspaper company, Stuff, described it as a “surprise appointment” which sends a “great message”. At Asia Pacific Report, the decision was “a bolt out of the blue”.

The former Labour leader David Cunliffe worked alongside Mahuta for almost 20 years. He says she has a rare record of honesty, and has studiously avoided the ego-driven politicking of the Beehive, as New Zealand’s parliament is known.

“I think it was an inspired choice, I have worked closely with Nanaia over the years and I think she is a person of good judgment, hard work and great strength,” Cunliffe says.

“She is deeply rooted in very positive, humane values, so I think she will bring that perspective to international relations. By her own whakapapa (ancestry) she is of royal lineage within the Māori world and that will help her take a long-term perspective. She’s very grounded in who she is and she’s very strong.”

Mahuta, 50, has been in parliament for 24 years. She has held portfolios including trade, customs, Māori affairs and youth development.

Despite her long service and diverse experience, Mahuta has kept a low-profile, avoiding the limelight and dodging any association with scandal or gossip: “I’ve learnt what to worry about and what not to worry about – I don’t want to be distracted,” she says.

Nevertheless, she has set a series of firsts. In 2016 she became the first woman to display a moko kauae (sacred facial tattoo) in parliament. Now she becomes New Zealand’s first female foreign minister, and only the second Māori person in the role.

“It’s satisfying to be given the opportunity to serve in a way we can lift the glass ceiling, in offices that have often not been open to women,” Mahuta says.

“And importantly blaze a trail that can be different and unique, and carve out a real sense of opportunity as a country, but also for Indigenous people ... So that’s what I am going to do.”

Her tribe, Waikato-Tainui, says she “brings tremendous mana [power] and skills” to her new role.

“Nanaia has the negotiation and diplomacy skills to represent Aotearoa on the global stage. She also brings a unique cultural perspective that’s especially relevant in these times of great geopolitical uncertainty,” a tribe spokesperson said in a statement.

It is this very uncertainty that influenced Ardern’s choice, Mahuta says.

“She, we, have acknowledged that these are really challenging and uncertain times with the global pandemic but also ways in which countries are responding and the impact on economies,” she says, citing the climate emergency, growing inequality, and loss of trust in democratic institutions and multinationals as pressing concerns.

“We are navigating unprecedented times. We’re realistic about the size of our country and the level of our influence, but we have always maintained our ability to take a values-based approach following the leadership of … Ardern.”

These values include manaakitanga (looking after people), collaboration, kaitiakitanga (guardianship of the environment) and relationship-building.

“We will not be deterred by some of those big challenging issues like climate change, we will actually lean into that space. And do our bit to ensure that we can lead on some really difficult fronts and build a coalition of the willing.”

Mahuta has two children, aged 10 and 7, as well as a third “spirit” [lost] child. She says her background as “a mother, as a daughter, a sister, a woman” gives her an intergenerational grounding, which emphasises the importance of building strong relationships and community.

“Very early on in life I gained the skills of diplomacy primarily through my upbringing and the range of experiences I was exposed to, but most importantly understanding who I am as a Māori woman.

“Once you understand who you are, you are less intimidated by other people from other backgrounds and beliefs. And so you navigate your way through to ensure you’re trying to achieve an outcome in a way that recognises diversity is not a threat. And that if you want to build a more sustainable future or outcome you have to build consensus. I learnt those skills from a young age from my family and community.”

Mahuta says hints about how she will manage the high-profile foreign affairs portfolio can be seen in her “flax-roots” or grassroots politics. How she has handled community affairs is how she will manage international relations, she says.

Māori activist Tina Ngata says it is “well overdue that we have a wāhine Māori step into this role”.

“Having someone with the connections and commitment to Te Ao Māori comes with an expectation that we will no longer be left behind in these discussions.”

As a tribal member of Waikato-Tainui, Ngāti Maniapoto and Ngāti Manu, Mahuta has familial ties to the Māori king, and from a young age assisted her father, Sir Robert Mahuta, who was a famous Indigenous campaigner and negotiator.

Joanna Kidman, professor of Māori education at Victoria University of Wellington, says the appointment of Mahuta could lead to a new, Indigenous-influenced way of conducting New Zealand’s international affairs.

“I have been delighted with this appointment. Nanaia Mahuta has been a very hardworking politician for 20 years and she is so well known and so highly respected in the Māori world. It was really exciting,” Kidman says.

“Nanaia comes from a long tradition of tribal leaders. She comes from generations of leadership. She works really hard at flax-roots level, she can walk into a room of high-level diplomats and politicians, but she is equally at home on the marae (tribal meeting house).”

As the pandemic continues, Mahuta says she will have to “up her Zoom game” as she reaches out to foreign governments online. When asked if anything daunts her about the new portfolio, she is unflinching.

“I’m going to put my head down and work things out,” says Mahuta. “I’ll throw everything at it.”





No.6 article:
Ethiopia&#x27;s PM says airstrikes launched against targets in restive Tigray region

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Fears of civil conflict escalate as Abiy Ahmed says operation will continue until ‘junta made accountable by law’ 

Fears of civil conflict escalate as Abiy Ahmed says operation will continue until ‘junta made accountable by law’ 

Ethiopia’s air force has carried out strikes in the restive Tigray region, the country’s prime minister has said, in another escalation of a crisis that observers fear could plunge the country into a bitter and bloody civil conflict.

The prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, said the strikes in multiple locations “completely destroyed rockets and other heavy weapons” belonging to the well-armed regional government and made it impossible for a retaliatory attack.

There was no mention of casualties in what Abiy called the “first round of operation” against the region’s government, the Tigray People’s Liberation Front. He said the air force destroyed heavy weapons in Tigray’s capital, Mekele, and surrounding areas.

The operation in the northernmost of the nine regions of Ethiopia will continue “until the junta is made accountable by law”, Abiy said. He asserted that the “large-scale law enforcement operation” has “clear, limited and achievable objectives: to restore the rule of law and the constitutional order”.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s government before Abiy took office in 2018, but its power has since waned. Abiy’s government launched military operations in Tigray on Wednesday, after he accused the TPLF of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF denies the attack and has accused Abiy of concocting the story to justify deploying the military.

There was no immediate response from the government in Tigray to the announcement of airstrikes. The region is being increasingly boxed in by movement restrictions and a six-month state of emergency imposed by the federal government.

Earlier in the day Abiy had threatened Tigray’s leaders, warning that there was “no place for criminal elements” in Ethiopia. “The proud Ethiopian people of Tigray [and] other citizens cannot be taken hostage by fugitives from justice forever. We shall extract these criminal elements [from Tigray and] relaunch our country on a path to sustainable prosperity for all,” last year’s Nobel peace prize winner said in a statement on social media.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

“What has been initiated against us is clearly a war, an invasion … This is a war we’re conducting to preserve our existence,” Debretsion Gebremichael, chair of the TPLF and president of the Tigray region, said at a press conference.

Debretsion said fighting persisted in western Tigray and that federal troops were gathering on the border in the neighbouring Amhara and Afar regions.

Diplomats in Addis Ababa said there have been casualties on both sides, but with internet and phone connections in Tigray cut there was no confirmation or details of the reports.

The fighting in Tigray has drawn expressions of concern from the UN, US and EU.

“The stability of Ethiopia is important for the entire Horn of Africa region. I call for an immediate de-escalation of tensions and a peaceful resolution to the dispute,” the UN secretary general, António Guterres, wrote on Twitter.

Experts fear a protracted and disastrous conflict that could “seriously strain an Ethiopian state already buffeted by multiple grave political challenges, and send shockwaves into the Horn of Africa region and beyond”.

“A war that many Ethiopians feared was possible but hoped would never happen appears to be under way … Unless urgently halted [it] will be devastating not just for the country but for the entire Horn of Africa,” the International Crisis Group said in a briefing on Thursday.

Tigray’s people make up 5% of Ethiopia’s 109 million population, but the region is wealthier and more influential than many other, larger, regions.

Under Abiy, Tigrayan leaders have complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions, and blamed for the country’s problems.

One factor in the latest crisis is the postponement of national elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic. National polls were due to take place in August, but electoral officials ruled in March that all voting would be delayed until the threat from the virus had eased.

When parliamentarians voted to extend officials’ mandates – which would have expired in early October – Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

Now each side sees the other as illegitimate, and federal lawmakers have ruled that Abiy’s government should cut off contact with, and funding to, Tigray’s leadership.

The Tigray region is home to a large portion of the federal military personnel and the location of much of its equipment, a legacy of Ethiopia’s 1998-2000 border war with Eritrea, its northern neighbour.

Some analysts estimate that Tigray could muster more than half of the armed forces’ total personnel and mechanised divisions, meaning that neither side could be confident of a swift victory.

There are widespread fears that open conflict will inspire further secessionist sentiment in other parts of Ethiopia.

“We’re working to ensure the war won’t come to the centre of the country. It will end there in Tigray,” said general Berhanu.





No.7 article:
US imposes sanctions on Lebanon&#x27;s former foreign minister

Trump administration moves against Gibran Bassil for alleged corruption

The Trump administration has imposed Treasury sanctions on one of Lebanon’s most influential politicians as it intensifies attempts to defang the militia and political powerhouse Hezbollah.

The move against Gibran Bassil for alleged corruption was announced on Friday as Trump’s chances of re-election continued to dip, and marks a sharp escalation of efforts to limit Hezbollah’s influence in Lebanese affairs. Crucially, it is a direct challenge to the country’s president and Bassil’s father in law, Michel Aoun, who Washington has considered an ally.

The decision is likely to derail attempts to form a new government aimed at stymieing an economic and social freefall in a country where fear and poverty is rising daily. It is also a pointed threat to other members of a political class that their personal interests are at stake if they stall on demands made of them in the dying months of the Trump presidency.

The allegations of corruption levelled at Bassil could have been made against officials at all levels of government. The former foreign minister, however, was central to a power-sharing pact in 2016 that cemented Hezbollah’s muscular role in Lebanese life and led to Gulf states, which had long acted as benefactors, turning their backs on the ailing nation.

Ever since, Bassil had become a deeply divisive figure disliked in equal measure for his alleged role in siphoning state funds away from energy reforms and for giving cover to what has broadly been seen in Washington and the Gulf states as a Hezbollah takeover of Lebanon.

Saudi Arabia and the UAE in particular had blamed current prime minister designate, Saad Hariri, for striking a deal with Bassil and Aoun, which consolidated the regional role of Hezbollah’s backer, Iran.

In recent months, Washington’s “maximum pressure” campaign against Iran has switched focus to Hezbollah, which remains the most important arm of Tehran’s foreign policy. Senior Trump officials have acknowledged that they would attempt to use their remaining time in office to move harder against Iranian regional influence than any earlier administration.

In a statement, the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said: “Throughout his government career, Bassil has become notorious for corruption and has been linked to the purchase of influence within Lebanese political circles.

“While minister of energy, Bassil was involved in approving several projects that would have steered Lebanese government funds to individuals close to him through a group of front companies.

“Through his corrupt activities, Bassil has also undermined good governance and contributed to the prevailing system of corruption and political patronage that plagues Lebanon, which has aided and abetted Hezbollah’s destabilizing activities.”

Faysal Itani, deputy director at the Centre for Global Policy, said: “Bassil is definitely not the only prominent non-Shia politician to give cover to Hezbollah. But as far as sanctions are concerned he is a proverbial low-hanging fruit. Going after his father in law would be seen locally as an attack on the Christians as a whole, and on a sitting president. This is a potent US signal of the cost of being too friendly with Hezbollah. As a bonus, this is a nice boost to Hariri politically as he tries to put a cabinet together, which Bassil’s party has boycotted.”

Bassil responded to the move on Twitter, saying “sanctions didn’t scare me and promises didn’t tempt me”.

“I will not turn against any Lebanese national … and I’m not saving myself to destroy Lebanon,” he added. “I have grown accustomed to injustice.”





No.8 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Sars-CoV-2 has jumped from humans, mutated and crossed back to cause new infections

News that the coronavirus has crossed from humans into mink, mutated and then jumped back again has generated understandable concern.

Officially, 12 people have been infected at farms so far, mostly in northern Denmark, but the Danish health minister has admitted that up to half of the 783 human Covid cases in the region may be mink-related. This implies that the mutated virus is spreading from person to person, but how worried should we be?

Is it normal for viruses to mutate in this way?

Viruses continuously accrue mutations as they replicate and circulate in populations, but most are harmless. Only a handful will change a virus’s ability to infect people or cause more serious disease.

“Sars-CoV-2 is not mutating as fast as other related viruses, but because it has been circulating in the human population for some time now, there’s quite a large set of mutations that have emerged,” said Prof David Robertson, a virologist at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research.

These do not appear to have made it any more dangerous so far, but if a virus jumps into a different species the pressure on it to adapt increases. So its transmission to mink and back to humans has prompted some legitimate concern particularly as some of the mutations are linked to a potential ability to evade the immune system.

What do we know about the coronavirus’s mutations?

Seven mutations have been identified so far, all of them in the “spike protein” on the virus’s surface, which it uses to gain entry to cells. One, called Y453F, was previously identified in an outbreak of Sars-CoV-2 on a mink farm in the Netherlands in April. It too was transmitted to humans, but it does not appear to have spread.

“I think it’s more about being aware that the virus can enter animal populations and exit back into humans,” said Julian Hiscox, the head of infection and global health at the University of Liverpool.

“The more genetic diversity in the virus there is, the more evolutionary room it’s got to play with. One of the reasons to try and keep the number of cases down as low as possible [in humans and animals], is to reduce the genetic diversity of the virus.”

Should we be worried?There are reports that virus particles with one of these mutations are less well neutralised by antibodies in people who have had Covid-19. This could in theory render a vaccine less effective, particularly because many of the vaccines under development target the spike protein.

”The true implication of the changes in the spike protein have not yet been evaluated by the international scientific community and are thus unclear,” said Prof James Wood, the head of the department of veterinary medicine at the University of Cambridge. “It is too early to say that the change will cause either vaccines or immunity to fail.”

callout-coronavirus

It is also relatively easy to tweak vaccines. This happens each year with the influenza vaccine.

So although we shouldn’t necessarily be terrified that this mutation has occurred, scientists should keep a close eye on it. Coronavirus cleary has the ability to jump from humans to animals and back again, and it seems to be quite good at it.

Do the mink really need to be culled?

It’s probably a wise precaution. “Culling mink may well not in itself cause the strain to disappear, but it may stop further mutant strains from developing in that species,” Wood said.





No.9 article:
Zimbabwe: Hopewell Chin&#x27;ono kept in jail after bail hearing postponed

EU and UK voice concern as journalist faces another weekend in high security prison

The Zimbabwean journalist and anti-corruption campaigner Hopewell Chin’ono will spend the weekend in a high security prison after a magistrate postponed his bail hearing to Monday.

Chin’ono was rearrested at his home in the capital, Harare, on Tuesday evening for allegedly breaking his bail conditions and has been detained since.

The respected documentary-maker was first arrested in July after publishing a series of investigations into corruption by senior public officials in Zimbabwe. He was held in an overcrowded cell in Chikurubi high-security prison for almost six weeks pending trial on charges of inciting violence.

On his release in September, Chin’ono was effectively banned from using social media for anything that could be seen as critical of the Zanu-PF government. He did, however, give a series of media interviews in which he described the horrific conditions he faced in prison.

Beatrice Mtwetwa, Zimbabwe’s best-known human rights lawyer, told the court on Friday that Chin’ono, who has not yet faced trial, was being detained with convicted prisoners and had been held for more than 48 hours before being brought to court.

He was brought to court just before the end of the day on Thursday, which his lawyers said was a deliberate tactic to delay proceedings.

The new charge is related to comments Chin’ono made about possessing classified information from the national prosecuting authority relating to Henrietta Rushwaya, the president of the Zimbabwe Miners’ Federation, who was arrested last week at Harare’s airport and has been charged with attempting to smuggle gold to Dubai.

According to court papers, Chin’ono “claims to be engaged in a relationship with the national prosecution authority thereby jeopardising the integrity of the case against himself and that of Henrietta Rushwaya.” Rushwaya has denied any wrongdoing.

Chin’ono, who denies the new charge against him, was brought to court in leg irons.

The EU’s office in Zimbabwe expressed concern over his rearrest and detention. “Hopewell Chin’ono’s detention sends a chilling signal on freedom of opinion and expression in Zimbabwe. Exposing corruption is not a crime, the fight against corruption is a declared government priority,” it said on Twitter.

The British ambassador to Zimbabwe, Melanie Robinson, said Chin’ono had “consistently spoken out about corruption in Zimbabwe” and expressed concerns “about the signals the case against him sends to journalists here”.









No.10 article:
Great Barrington strives to stay Covid-safe

Mark Pruhenski, town manager of Great Barrington, Massachusetts, says the co-opting of the town name by the authors of the herd immunity proposition has caused upset and confusion

Regarding your article (Chris Whitty decries Great Barrington plan to let Covid run wild, 5 November) the town of Great Barrington, Massachusetts, wishes to correct any misperception that our town has any “plan” to allow Covid to “run wild”. The co-opting of our town name by the authors of the “Great Barrington declaration” herd immunity proposition has caused immeasurable distress to many in our community and confused many others about our town’s safety.

Residents, businesses and the town’s government have been proactive and responsible with efforts to protect our community from Covid-19. Our infection levels are among the lowest in Massachusetts, and we wish to keep it that way.

Since the so-called Great Barrington declaration was distributed by a thinktank nonprofit located here, we have been hard at work distancing our town from a herd immunity proposition so vastly out of line with our Covid-safe efforts. This dark, Darwinian notion, if taken seriously, would cause millions of deaths, undermine scientific evidence and decimate the ethics and morality of public health. Meanwhile, our town is wearing masks, washing our hands and caring for our neighbours.Mark PruhenskiTown manager, Great Barrington, Massachusetts, USA





No.11 article:
Call Israel to account for demolition of Palestinian homes

Linda Ramsden says forced displacement of families is cruel and results in crippling trauma for Palestinian families

The demolition of most structures within a Palestinian community in the Jordan Valley was shocking (Israeli forces leave 41 children homeless after razing Palestinian village, UN says, 5 November). Usually Israel only demolishes a few homes per day, which doesn’t get into the news. By our count, since 1967 this has totalled over 55,000 demolitions of homes and structures vital for living within the occupied Palestinian territories. In 99% of the cases Israel’s demolition and displacement policy is in gross violation of international law. This forced displacement is cruel and results in crippling trauma for Palestinian families. Israel’s demolition of Palestinian homes should be a cross-party issue for every single MP who cares about the rule of law and the future of humanity. We urge our government to call Israel to account.Linda RamsdenDirector, Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions UK





No.12 article:
Where a turnip is a swede and vice versa

Hard-arsed wombats | Ale | Swedes | Fascism | Tom Hornbein

What a pity the TV show What’s My Line? is no longer current. Your article (Wombats’ deadly bums: how they use their ‘skull-crushing’ rumps to fight, play and flirt, 4 November) describes Alyce Swinbourne as an expert in wombat bottoms. She must be the butt of a lot of jokes. Audrey Butler Cheadle, Cheshire

• Easing the pain of lockdown with a glass of Yorkshire’s most palatable export – Theakston’s Old Peculier – I am distressed to find the instruction “serve chilled” on the bottle. Have effete lager-drinking southerners finally corrupted the palates of brewers in God’s Own Country? John Curran Ashtead, Surrey

• Re swede (Letters, 5 November), where I come from, Hull, a turnip is a largish vegetable with yellow flesh, while a swede is smaller, with white flesh. In Hampshire, where I live, the opposite applies. This division seems widespread, but I would love to know where the dividing line is. Dr John Fisher Eastleigh, Hampshire

• In Wales we eat ponch maip, boiled swede and potatoes (in roughly equal measure) mashed with loads of white pepper and butter. It’s absolutely delicious. Ieuan Roberts Glyn Ceiriog, Clwyd

• Rafael Behr says Boris Johnson is too lazy for fascism (Trump and Johnson have shown countries need leaders, not celebrity politicians, 3 November). True. Mr Cummings, however, maybe not so much. Helene Grygar Bampton, Oxfordshire

• You describe Tom Hornbein (Birthdays, 6 November) as an anaesthesiologist. Do you perhaps mean anaesthetist? Dr Patrick Hoyte Wootton Courtenay, Somerset





No.13 article:
Official ONS figures show 618,700 people had the virus in the week ending 31 October

Almost 620,000 people in England had coronavirus in the past week, according to the latest official estimates, but the rate of infection is slowing.

The Office for National Statistics estimates that 618,700 people in England were infected with the virus in the week to 31 October – one in 90 people, the highest rate measured by the infection survey to date.

This is a 9% rise on the 570,000 people estimated to have had the virus in the previous week. This is a slower increase than in previous weeks – the weekly rise stood at 31% the previous week and was as high as 92% a month ago.

However, there were still an estimated 45,700 new Covid cases a day in private households in England in the week covered by the analysis, albeit down from 51,900 a week earlier. This, according to the ONS, indicates that the rate of new infections “appears to have stabilised in recent weeks at around 50,000 new infections per day”.

As in previous weeks, the highest Covid-19 infection rates are still being seen in the north-west and Yorkshire and the Humber. Every region other than the north-east witnessed increased levels of infection.

Estimates for Wales put the number of infected people at 27,100 in the week to 31 October, or one in 110 people. A similar ratio is evident in Scotland, where the average number of people with Covid in the past two weeks is estimated at 47,300.

Northern Ireland remains the most affected country, with 24,900 people estimated to have had Covid in the week to 31 October, equating to 1 in 75 people.

Prof James Naismith, of the University of Oxford and director of the Rosalind Franklin Institute, said the slowing of new cases was “welcome news” and this latest survey, alongside other data, indicated that the virus is spreading “at a constant rather than an increasing rate”.

“This is evidence that the social restrictions prior to lockdown have had a real impact,” he said.

However, he cautioned that, even if next week’s survey continues with a pattern of stabilisation or reduction, the UK was “still very likely to face daily death tolls of 500 a day for a period in November”.

Dr Jonathan Pearson-Stuttard, of the school of public health in Imperial College London, said that while the figures were “clearly welcome”, there are “still a very high number of new cases each day – far higher than can be expected to be managed effectively by the current test-and-trace programme”.

Paul Hunter, professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia, said this and other data sources “suggest that there has been a decline in the spread of the epidemic over the past week or so”.

However, he cautioned: “Whether this turns out to be a temporary decline or a longer-term trend, possibly as a result of the imposition of the three-tier system, it is too early to say.”

Some 61,498 deaths have been registered by the UK’s three statistical agencies to date where Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificate.

More up-to-date government figures add 2,442 deaths to the total in England, 163 in Wales, 43 in Northern Ireland and 24 in Scotland. This brings to 64,170 the total number of deaths involving Covid-19 recorded in the UK to date.





No.14 article:
Eta, one of the fiercest storms to hit Central America in years,&nbsp;struck Nicaragua as a category 4 hurricane on Tuesday&nbsp;with 150mph (241kph) winds, before weakening as it moved inland and into neighbouring Honduras





No.15 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

No 10 has admitted an ‘error’ in the way data was presented to make case for second lockdown

The UK Statistics Authority has rebuked the government over its lack of transparency around projected Covid-19 deaths and hospital admissions, saying it could cast doubt over official figures.

A range of estimates were used to make the case for a second English lockdown in a press conference on 31 October. However, the UKSA said “the data and assumptions for this model had not been shared transparently”, potentially undermining confidence in official figures.

On Friday, Downing Street acknowledged there had been an “error” in the way the data was presented but said the underlying analysis was unchanged. 

A No 10 spokesman said: “We want to make the data as clear and transparent as we can. There was no error in the underlying analysis. The consensus is that without action we will breach the first wave [peak] in terms of hospital admissions.

“We have acknowledged the mistake which we have corrected and we will continue to try and provide data in the clearest possible way.”

The upper limit of these projections has now been revised down. How much does this change our understanding of the second wave?

At the press conference, the government showed a chart that projected daily coronavirus deaths could surpass the first wave peak and hit 1,500 deaths a day by December. The figures were based on data available up to 28 October and produced by academic modelling teams.

The upper limit of this projection has since been revised down to 1,000 deaths a day, which would be in line with the first wave peak. However, the central projection remains the same in the new version, which predicts that there could be about 800 deaths a day by December.

The upper limit for projected hospital admissions has also been revised down, from about 9,000 to 6,000 a day. Again, the central projection has not changed, and remains at more than 4,000 admissions a day by December.

The latest modelling shows the second wave peak could be less severe than initially predicted, but the models are updated regularly and this could change again in coming weeks.

Dr Duncan Robertson, a policy and strategy analytics academic at Loughborough University, said: “The central projection remains the same: all that’s changed is what are called the ‘prediction intervals’ [the upper and lower limits of the range where the prediction might fall]. Hospitals are still going to be overrun if we don’t do something now, and adjusting the prediction intervals on the graph is not going to change that.

“The government needs to be proactive in its decision making rather than reacting when it’s too late. Scientific advice shows a projection of what could come and it’s important that policymakers put mitigation measures in place so that they are ahead of the epidemic rather than being controlled by it.”

The inaccuracy is the latest in a long line of problems with government Covid-19 data, which has cast a shadow over how the pandemic has been managed and communicated.

Many of the issues have revolved around testing and how the number of tests being carried out have been counted. In May and June the agency reprimanded the government on its testing statistics twice. Rather than show the number of tests that had been carried out, the government included mailed-out tests in an effort to hit its target of 100,000 tests a day by the end of May.

callout-coronavirus

In a letter at the time to the health secretary, Matt Hancock, the head of the UKSA, Sir David Norgrove, said: “The aim seems to be to show the largest possible number of tests, even at the expense of understanding.”

The number of tests available has also been in doubt after 1.3m inaccurate tests were quietly pulled from the government’s tally and it changed how it counted available tests in August.

There have also been concerns about the accuracy of death figures. In July, Hancock announced an urgent government review into how deaths were counted by Public Health England after it was revealed that people were included in Covid death counts even if they had recovered from the virus months earlier. However, analysis showed the likely overcount of deaths at the time was minimal.





No.16 article:
Hong Kong informers’ hotline receives 2,500 tip-offs within hours

Citizens urged to report suspected breaches of controversial security law

Hong Kong police claim they have received more than 2,500 tip-offs since the launch of a hotline for people to report suspected breaches of the city’s sweeping national security law.

The multi-platform hotline, which opened on Thursday, allows Hong Kongers to report information directly to national security police via text message, email, or WeChat.

A police spokesman told the Guardian that by Friday morning the force had received more than 2,500 pieces of information. The hotline can accept audio, videos, photographs and texts, and contributors will remain anonymous and receive no replies once they have submitted their tips, police said.

While many countries have law enforcement tip lines, Hong Kong’s has been denounced by critics as reminiscent of China’s Cultural Revolution, when neighbours were encouraged to monitor and inform on each other.

The broadly defined national security law, imposed on Hong Kong by Beijing in June, criminalises a wide range of acts on the grounds of subversion, secession, foreign collusion or terrorism.

Speaking from Beijing, Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, hailed the law as having been effective. “You don’t see major violent incidents any more. So in this sense, the law has been very effective in having a deterrent effect,” she said.

At least 27 people have been arrested under the law, several of them twice, although only two have been charged. While authorities said it would only be used against a “small group” of criminals, it has resulted in the criminalisation of benign acts that support independence, and a chilling effect across media, academia and in schools.

Amid the crackdown others have also been arrested using pre-existing laws, including seven pro-democracy legislators held on Sunday over alleged contempt offences and a pro-democracy activist accused of colonial-era secession crimes.

Speaking outside of a court appearance on Friday, the legislators accused the government of seeking to suppress dissent inside parliament.

On Tuesday, Choy Yuk-ling, a producer for a current affairs TV show, was arrested and charged over misusing a vehicle registration search function while investigating the involvement of gang members and police in the Yuen Long attack in July 2019.

The resulting documentary, which aired last year, revealed police were present but took no action, her employer RTHK said.

Lam declined to comment on the case but repeated that Hong Kong’s press freedom was protected as long as journalists did not break the law. A key criticism of the law has been that its dearth of specifics makes it difficult for journalists to know if they are breaking the law.





No.17 article:
Remembrance events will be permitted outdoors this Sunday, but not church services

Christian leaders have said they expect the government to ease its ban on communal worship during lockdown in England as pressure mounts over church services on Remembrance Sunday.

Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, said on Friday that the ban on religious services would “probably change before too long”. He said the government had been “very good, they’re listening very carefully”, since faith leaders wrote to Boris Johnson this week challenging the ban.

Welby told Good Morning Britain that churches were safe places in the Covid pandemic. “People are well spread out, they’re wearing masks, they’re all registered. They’re really sensible about it.”

Congregations needed communal worship to “get the strength to serve and love their neighbours”, he said. Faith leaders were not looking for a “great big row” with the government but had said that “we disagree with you about the need to close churches. This is one of the things that holds people together. It gives them a real sense of purpose and changes the world. So, I think that’ll probably change before too long.”

On Thursday, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Catholic archbishop of Westminster, said he thought the policy on communal worship would change. The rule was “not supported by any scientific evidence and clearly shows a misunderstanding of the importance of religious faith”, he told BBC Radio 4.

“I think it will be changed,” he said. “As soon as possible, I hope to see places of worship opened again [for public worship].”

Under the lockdown regulations, places of worship may remain open for private prayer, support activities, such as food banks, and to stream services, but not for communal worship.

The interfaith letter to Johnson was also signed by Jewish, Muslim, Sikh and Hindu leaders.

Traditionally, Church of England parishes hold services on Remembrance Sunday, which falls this weekend, to commemorate British servicemen and women who died in the two world wars and other conflicts.

Remembrance Sunday events held outdoors with social distancing in place will be permitted under the lockdown rules, but not church services.

The government’s guidelines note that Remembrance Sunday services are traditionally part of communal worship, but state: “From 5 November, places of worship are not permitted to open for communal worship. Celebrants may, however, enter places of worship to broadcast services to their communities and will be able to incorporate Remembrance services as part of this when they do.”

The C of E will broadcast a special online service for the nation at 9am on Sunday, in which the Act of Remembrance will be read and the Last Post played, followed by a two-minute silence and the sounding of the reveille.

Among those criticising the government’s restrictions was the former Conservative defence secretary Michael Fallon, who told the Telegraph: “It seems ridiculous. We trusted veterans to put their lives on the line for the country, but we cannot trust them to stand 2 metres apart in church.”

Alan West, a former first sea lord, said: “It is not beyond the wit of man to have them allowed into a church. I think this ban is extraordinary. It should be overturned. If you look at the average size of a church, there must be a way of letting veterans in with social distancing. It seems very silly to have them standing outside in the freezing cold. This puts them more at risk. They will die of pneumonia rather than Covid-19, and that doesn’t seem a very good way ahead at all.”

The former prime minister Theresa May told the Commons on Wednesday: “It [the church ban] has unintended consequences. The Covid-secure Remembrance service in Worcester cathedral is now going to be turned into a pre-recorded online service. Surely those men and women who laid down their lives for our freedom deserve better than this?”





No.18 article:
'A backlash against a patriarchal culture': How Polish protests go beyond abortion rights

Mass demonstrations have exposed underlying anger at political and religious interference in people’s everyday lives

by  Jon Henley, Europe correspondent, and Kasia Strek in Warsaw

For 14 nights they have marched, enraged by a near-total ban on abortion that has stirred a generation to stage the largest mass demonstrations that Poland has seen since Solidarność toppled the communist regime in the 1980s.

Until soaring coronavirus numbers and a looming national lockdown made it almost impossible, up to a million people nightly defied a government ban on protests, taking to the streets from Warsaw to Łódź, Poznań to Wrocław, Gdańsk to Kraków.

The protests, led by the grassroots women’s movement Ogólnopolski Strajk Kobiet (OSK, or All-Polish Women’s Strike), have shocked the ruling conservatives and created a new political faultline that, analysts say, could spell more serious problems for the party.

“I think it is a whole backlash against a patriarchal culture, against the patriarchal state, against the fundamentalist religious state, against the state that treats women really badly,” said Marta Lempart, a 41-year-old lawyer and one of OSK’s leaders.

The group has outlined areas extending far beyond abortion rights where it says urgent change is needed: stronger and wider women’s and LGBTQ+ rights in general; the separation of church and state; more support for healthcare, small businesses and education; full judicial independence.

Predominantly Catholic Poland already had one of Europe’s strictest abortion laws when, on 22 October, its constitutional tribunal ruled that terminations in instances of severe foetal anomalies, which accounted for all but about 30 of the 1,110 abortions performed legally in Poland last year, were “incompatible” with the constitution.

The decision by the court’s 15 pro-PiS judges, many of them appointed unlawfully, would allow terminations only in instances of rape, incest and when the mother’s life is at risk – a tiny fraction of cases. Women’s groups estimate an additional 200,000 Polish women have abortions either illegally or abroad each year.

The ruling sparked an immediate reaction. Across the country, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators, mainly women and young people, took to the streets with banners proclaiming “I wish I could abort my government”, “This is war” and “Women’s hell”.

On Tuesday – apparently in response to the protests – the government indefinitely postponed publishing the court’s decision in the official journal, preventing it from coming into effect (and raising major constitutional questions if it tries to do so later).

But the genie may be out of the bottle.

While surveys show more than 60% of Poles support the status quo on abortion, barely 15% back the proposed changes. This has mobilised a generation not previously engaged with politics and stoked existing, wider anger at what many see as the steady erosion of democratic norms since PiS came to power in 2015.

Maria Kowalczyk, 38, a beauty journalist, said at a protest in Warsaw that Poland was “years behind. In this country, because of the politics and doctrine of the government and the religious fanatics, someone who is different is worse. The way they treat LGBT people, migrants, all minorities – and now women … Society has had enough.”

Julia Estera, 30, a performance and makeup artist from Łódź, said Poland was no longer a free country. “We are a religious state where we are all demanded to think in one possible way.” Bianka, 15, and Maja, 16, said Poland’s youth would not back down. “We don’t want to live in a country where we don’t have a choice, where everything is decided for us.”

Andrzej Kompa, a historian and university researcher, said on another march in the capital that he was protesting “not just against this hell for women, decided by this so-called constitutional court, but against this government, against church involvement in political affairs, for minority rights. Simply for freedom.”

Support for the PiS, who were re-elected last year, and its founder, Jarosław Kaczyński, 71, has plunged by almost 10 points to 30.9% in a month, according to one poll. Another showed 70% of Poles would like Kaczyński – widely seen as the country’s true powerbroker – to step down as PiS leader.

Breaking long-held taboos, the protests have also challenged the Catholic church and its influence on Polish policy, education and culture, with some demonstrators disrupting services and defacing churches. Support for the church has fallen eight points to 49% since March, one poll showed.

Kaczyński last week urged the party faithful to call for a defence of the Catholic church “at all costs”. He also said the protests were “intended to destroy Poland”, and urged his supporters to fight for “Poland and patriotism” in order to avert “the end of … the Polish nation as we know it”.

The protests could hardly have come at a worse time for PiS. As Covid-19 infections and death tolls break new records, the government – which warned this week of a new national lockdown within 10 days unless things improve – is coming under increasingly heavy fire for its handling of the pandemic.

It now appears to have few easy ways out. Many Poles view the court ruling as a tactical play by Kaczyński to bolster support on the traditionalist right while bypassing parliament, where the ruling coalition has only a slender majority. It has sparked an explosion of popular fury unlike any PiS has seen.

“It certainly feels different,” said Adam Mrozowicki, a sociologist at the University of Wrocław. “We need to study it properly, but the heart of this does seem to be young people. Anecdotally, I’ve never seen this level of engagement among my students – in my faculty, maybe 70-80% of students have taken part in some kind of protest.”

The scale and nature of the protests was new, Mrozowicki said: “They are led by young women. This is decentralised, locally based, grassroots. And personally, in 20 years, I’ve never seen anything like these numbers. To have 65,000 people on the streets of Wrocław …”

Ben Stanley, a political scientist at the SWPS university in Warsaw, said the protests felt “qualitatively different”. Previous anti-PiS demonstrations over the rule of law mainly drew “Solidarność-era protesters, people in their 50s and 60s. It wasn’t an issue that resonated so much with young people.”

Women’s rights are “a lot more tangible for 25-year-olds; they really mean something concrete. This ruling has animated many more people by personalising the culture war PiS has declared: its chosen narrative of a Poland whose authentic identity and traditions are at threat from rootless cosmopolitanism.”

The protests had “blown a hole in the idea that Kaczyński is always three steps ahead, that PiS always has its finger on the pulse of what Poland really feels”, Stanley said, “at the same time as Covid has blown a hole in their reputation for competence”.

The party could salvage the situation in the short term, he said, but “processes are accelerating that will make the nationalist, clericalist PiS narrative more difficult to sustain longer term. All this may not bring PiS down immediately, but it could make things a lot more difficult in future.”

Mrozowicki said it was unclear how the protests would immediately affect Poland’s politics because the protesters had no clear links to parliamentary politics, and their leaders have said they do not want to become a political movement. “But it feels like something, definitely, is shifting,” he said.

• This article was amended on 9 November 2020 to remove an incorrectly translated quote.





No.19 article:
Dutch government pilots technology to cut e-bike road deaths

Digital system automatically reduces electric bicycles’ power in built-up areas

Electric bike motors will be shut down when entering residential or built-up areas of Amsterdam, under a government-funded project to cut road deaths from the increasingly powerful vehicles.

The digital technology, which has been successfully trialled on a 4km stretch of bike lanes at Schiphol airport, was funded by the Dutch ministry of infrastructure and water management.

The not-for-profit Townmaking Institute behind the concept is working with e-bike manufacturers and government authorities with the expectation that the speed-cutting technology and new regulations could be rolled out by 2022.

Sixty-five people died last year while riding e-bikes, which have an integrated electric motor to propel the wheels, up from 57 in 2018. The vast majority were men over the age of 65. The standard e-bike reaches speeds of 12mph (20km/h), but faster models, such as speed pedelecs, can reach 28mph.

Indranil Bhattacharya, a technology strategist at the Townmaking Institute, said discussions had been opened with manufacturers about how their bikes would interact with digital infrastructure built by local authorities.

He said: “When we first discussed the idea with manufacturers that you would cut off the power they said: ‘Well, we will put the intelligence in our own bikes, we don’t need the infrastructure telling us.’

“But I think we helped them to understand that where vehicles should go and how fast is not up to a private party, a business. In a functioning democracy, that is the job of citizens and of government.”

Discussions over the use of the technology are most advanced with the municipality of Amsterdam, but the provinces of Gelderland and North Holland are also said to have shown an interest.

“The whole narrative is about moving individuals from a self-centric mode,” Bhattacharya said. “You have been cycling through an empty stretch and you are mostly thinking of yourself and your experience, but now as you come into a built-up area it is about the collective good. By reducing the speed we are making it safer for everybody.”

The technology trialled at Schiphol offers policymakers a range of options. “Say the weather is really bad, there is a headwind of 40km and cyclists are at a standstill, then cutting off the power would be counterintuitive,” said Bhattacharya.

“We built it so you can detect the direction the bike is going, and a policymaker can say: ‘We change the regulation. We won’t cut your power off because the weather is bad.’ The intelligent infrastructure would then tell the bicycle not to cut off the power.”

The infrastructure could also inform an e-bike of upcoming obstacles or junctions, by alerting cyclists with a gentle vibration of the handlebars.

Bhattacharya said: “It’s a bit like turning your mobile phone on. As you arrive, the [bike’s software] makes a session with the digital infrastructure. A digital twin will be aware of a bump coming up and send an alert. It will talk directly to the bicycle.”

The Dutch ministry of infrastructure and water has provided €1.3m (£1.2m) of funding for the project, a sum matched by Schiphol, which wants to encourage its employees to cycle to work.





No.20 article:
Gimme shell-ter: Thai hermit crabs face housing crisis

Population of crustaceans at one national park has exploded amid drop in tourist numbers

Hermit crab numbers in southern Thailand have boomed as foreign tourists have stayed away – so much so that the national park authority are appealing for the public to donate extra shells for them to live in.

The population of the crustaceans, which protect themselves by wearing and living inside the discarded shells of other animals, has exploded on some islands in the Mu Koh Lanta national park, and marine biologists believe the lack of tourists could be a factor.

The kingdom’s economy is highly dependent on foreign visitors but it is expecting a tiny fraction of the nearly 40 million international arrivals it recorded last year, after the pandemic brought global air travel to a near standstill.

“The reason [we need shells] is because of surging numbers of hermit crabs, I think tens of thousands,” the national park director, Veerasak Srisatjung, told AFP.

Veerasak said authorities had detected a shell shortage about a week ago. Some crabs, having outgrown their previous homes and moved into pieces of rubbish such as cans, glass bottles or caps.

The park authority urged people to post or courier donations of cone-shaped shells to its office in Krabi province.

So far about 200kg of shells have been pledged, and volunteers will help distribute them at a special Thai Father’s Day event on 5 December.

The marine biologist Thamasak Yeemin from Ramkhamhaeng University agreed that the population boom could be linked to the tourism shutdown.

“If there’s a low number of tourists and fewer activities in the coastal areas that might be a possible factor explaining the high survival rates,” he told AFP, adding that weather, sea currents, plankton supply and predators were other influencing factors.





No.21 article:
The president must demonstrate that the secular state – with a subtle dose of multiculturalism – works for them

As a dual citizen of France and Canada, I never cease to be amazed by the depth of misunderstanding there is about French attitudes to religion. France’s shortcomings in its management of diversity are obvious – as are everyone else’s – but it is important to recognise some basic facts before pronouncing on them.

The first is that the principle of laïcité in France – the country’s particular brand of secularism – is more than posturing: it is a lived, sociological fact. 

The extent of secularism in France, especially over the last half century, is well documented. Jérôme Fourquet, in The French Archipelago, provides 350 pages of evidence on the transformation of France – or, as he puts it, the disappearance of the religious in France. To explain the depth of that transformation, he starts with the obliteration of Catholicism.

There hasn’t just been a precipitous decline in Catholic belief and practice, but a near-vanishing of Christian references. In 1945, Catholicism had officially been a minority sport for half a century, but it still played a role in the social space. The years since the war have seen that role disappear, and Catholic observance reduced to a (very small) minority. As a result that minority has occasionally become more strident, more “identitarian”, but also quite irrelevant.

Its irrelevance is confirmed by Olivier Roy in Is Europe Christian?, in which he examines the political space occupied by French Catholics. As Roy puts it, no political party in France can afford to put Catholicism at the heart of its political programme – or in fact go anywhere near it, because it speaks to only roughly 5% of the electorate. And switches everyone else radically off.

And this is the key point: France is a nation of equal-opportunity heretics. The allergy to granting faith any kind of public role is displayed across the board: most French people will break out in hives at the sight of a procession of priests in the public space, as much as at any other kind of religious display.

Any debate about the rights or wrongs of France’s brand of secularism needs to be conducted within the terms of this generalised anti-clericalism.

Of course, there is a difference between poking fun at a majority culture that is largely confident in itself and its own contradictions, and poking fun at a culturally and economically marginalised minority. There is Islamophobia in France, much as in any non-Muslim majority country, but reducing the principle of laïcité to intolerance or racism – or alleging that it is no more than a vast cover-up – is missing how deep and how wide French suspicion of all faiths runs.

So while this across-the-board anti-clericalism may exacerbate social tensions, it is politically defensible and institutionally rooted.

Anyone holding their breath for an about-turn on this is in for a long wait. Most French people would go to the wall for it, including against any Christian church. And those who are looking for France to compromise here misunderstand the nature of what citizenship means in France: any compromise with any faith will be seen as a breach of the social contract. That is the second basic fact.

However, for the contract to hold, it needs to be renewed with French citizens of all beliefs and of all cultures. And for that to work secularism cannot be deployed simply as an incantation of republican values or used as a test of belonging.

Laïcité needs to be explained. For many (especially young) Muslims it simply isn’t clear how or why this particular ideal can be liberating rather than diminishing: that it offers a neutral space in which to exercise one’s fundamental human rights, including the right to walk away from one’s original tradition or belief.

Taking the trouble to spell this out (it hasn’t been done since the 1905 law separating church and state) is a necessary step. And it is a remarkably difficult one. The renewed emphasis that the French government is hopefully now going to place on the teaching of laïcité – rather than simply beating people over the head with it – gives me hope.

But this takes us to the third basic fact and the recent actions of Emmanuel Macron, which mark a departure from those of his predecessors. Over the past few weeks, Macron has been taken to task for calling for a reformed Islam, and a French Islam. I think his recent actions show two things.

The first is a resoluteness in engaging with Muslim media and Muslim organisations abroad. He has made it clear, for example, that he supports the inclusion of Hezbollah in talks on the future of Lebanon.

Domestic engagement with French Muslim organisations may alienate some, given that these groups do not represent all French Muslims. But the fact that they are so actively being brought into the tent suggests a pivotal moment.

Macron is upping the security ante, too, adapting the counter-terrorism strategy France first put in place in the aftermath of 9/11 and developed after the attacks of 2015. And of course this is part of his attempt to square up to Marine Le Pen and her supporters.

But the president may also quietly be setting the stage for a new departure; closer to a strategy of multiculturalism, even if that concept is so fundamentally misunderstood in France that it could never dare speak its name.

I have always argued that multiculturalism, as practised in Canada or Singapore rather than Germany or the UK, is a stroke of realpolitik genius. Far from the kumbaya philosophy to which it is often reduced, multiculturalism is first and foremost an incredibly effective if slightly cynical political strategy. It is designed to create a framework for the participation of minorities – complete with all the right financial and political incentives – in exchange for an agreement that each of them becomes just one defined cultural strand among many.

Faith and religion become culture, as do language and ethnicity. Institutions make room for their representation, but as criss-crossing cultural identities rather than currents of belief or faith. Multiculturalism in effect dilutes public faith into culture. This may not sit well with everyone, but it does recognise and cement people’s status in a polity. In the French context, where faith is a private matter but religion can be a matter of cultural affiliation, moving toward such inclusion is more necessary than ever.

More to the point, it is probably the only compromise on the horizon. In advanced democracies with generous welfare states, where the state rather than the market is the gatekeeper to full citizenship rights, a multicultural set of institutions is the only way to balance rights and duties. What Macron is attempting to do – the carrot of engagement and the stick of security – may not immediately quell the sort of violence we have seen in the past few weeks, but it may create the kind of framework in which French Muslims will finally feel an integral part of the republic.

Perhaps Macron has understood that a subtle dose of stealth multiculturalism is the best way to achieve thoroughly republican aims.

• Catherine Fieschi is the director of Counterpoint and author of Populocracy





No.22 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Family in Wales ‘heartbroken’ at users who question cause of deaths and say virus is a hoax

Bereaved relatives who lost three members of their family to Covid-19 in five days have been targeted by social media trolls claiming the virus is a hoax.

Gladys Lewis, 74, from Pentre in south Wales, died at the Royal Glamorgan hospital on 29 October. Her son Dean Lewis, 44, was found unresponsive at his home in nearby Treorchy the next day and pronounced dead a short time later. His younger brother Darren, 42, died at the same hospital as his mother on Monday.

All three had tested positive for coronavirus before they died and their death certificates state Covid-19 as the cause. After news of the family’s tragedy was published online, however, some social media users refused to accept they had died of coronavirus.

There were also comments asking what underlying health conditions they had, and some suggested their diet and lifestyle had been a factor in their deaths.

Dean’s wife, Claire Lewis, told Channel 4 News that people who think Covid is a conspiracy need to “wise up”.

“The comments we have seen I try to blank out as much as possible because people are cruel,” she said. “There have been some amazing comments where people have given us support and even strangers have said how heartfelt they are. But for the people who are trolling, I just feel sorry for you because I hope it doesn’t happen to you.”

David Lewis, Gladys’s husband of 44 years, echoed Claire’s comments. He urged people to “believe this is real” and said that “if they lose what we’ve lost, then they will suffer”.

David described his wife as a wonderful woman who was a devoted mother, grandmother of 13 and great-grandmother of four. Asked about Dean and Darren, David said: “What can a father say when he’s lost two sons? I love them so much. It’s devastating. I don’t know how I’m going to get through it.”

His daughter, Debbie Mountjoy, said the comments on social media broke their hearts: “I just hope none of them have to go through anything like what we and hundreds and thousands of other families have had to go through with Covid-19.

“They want to spend a couple of minutes with me, my dad, Claire, Claire’s children and my children to see the devastation that we are going through as a family. Spend five minutes with us and they’ll know it’s real.”

Debbie described Gladys as “the best mother and grandmother anyone could ask for”, and Claire said her husband had had a heart of gold and adored his family. Darren was “the most lovable, happy man”, the family said.

callout-coronavirus

The family are unsure how their loved ones contracted coronavirus. Darren, who had Down’s syndrome, had not left his home since February except to attend hospital appointments. His mother, who had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema, had also been shielding, and Dean only went out once a week to shop for his parents.Ten other members of the family, including Debbie, David and Claire, also tested positive for coronavirus and have been self-isolating.

“We were scared of the virus anyway,” said Debbie. “But now we are absolutely terrified … I’m so scared because of losing the three of them that I’m going to lose my dad or somebody else.”





No.23 article:
The Upside weekly report finds causes for optimism in America’s most divisive of elections

Apologies in advance: the Upside has been too riveted by events in the US this week to do much else. This most divisive, bad-tempered election might not seem fertile ground for optimism. But we spotted plenty.

A huge turnout. Heroic vote counters putting in magnificent double shifts. A determination to uphold democracy in the face of the pandemic. A robust institutional system, able to contain the sharpest differences of opinion and channel them towards a mandate.

As for the outcome, the Upside has always steered clear of party politics. We prefer ideas to idealogues, zeal to zealots. We’re more interested in the trial than the tribal.

We are for collaboration, for innovation, for science, for honesty, for compassion, for ingenuity, for spirit, for courage in the face of adversity. We are for any president who embodies and encourages the same.

And so to this week’s list of the Guardian’s most optimistic journalism, which includes:

• Reasons to be hopeful in the US election. Three-minute read

• C Covid vaccine approved by Christmas? Four-minute read

• How Estonia excels at digital learning. Two-minute read

• Culture to pick you up during lockdown. Mini-series

• Therapeutic music in Nigeria. Three-minute read

Life expectancy in Australia has hit new peaks of 85 for women and almost 81 for men, according to official statistics.

Elsewhere, I don’t know what your record for keepy-uppy is, but I’ll bet it’s not 1.1m. This young lady topped that improbable total, and raised some cash for key workers in the process.

And, from the world of cricket, we salute the sixiest batsman ever, Chris Gayle, via some wonderful writing from Andy Bull.

The world’s largest wind-powered ship is a salivating prospect, even if it is still at prototype stage.

Jeff Bezos’s $10bn Earth Fund is an equally salivating prospect… here the Atlantic reports on the principal beneficiaries.

George Nixon has an offer that Upside readers cannot refuse. I can only describe it as a do-it-yourshelf library. George explains more here:

It’s really good to see the government has allowed libraries to stay open during this second lockdown so people can access books not via Amazon, but for some people that still might not be an option after a decade of austerity and local authority funding cuts. Bookshops are also still closed.

During the first lockdown I posted pictures of my bookshelves on Twitter and Facebook in case anyone was interested in borrowing any of them, as they don’t do much after I’ve finished reading them. I’ve reposted the original posts from March (I’ve also bought plenty more books since then naturally...) and wondered if you wouldn’t mind helping me get the word out please?

They’re all free, I just split the cost of postage with people, and it’d be great to spread the word as far as possible

This made us wonder if other Upside readers had initiative or lockdown antics they would like to share with the group? Do get in touch if so.

Meanwhile, on Twitter, rubbercable reminded us of a piece from earlier this year about the fight against fake news

With the Indian botanical enthusiasts trying to preserve crops in danger of going extinct.





No.24 article:
Downing Street sent advisers before UK’s large-scale testing programme in Liverpool

Authorities in Slovakia say they hope a nationwide programme in which two-thirds of the country’s population were tested for Covid-19 in just two days last weekend will halve the number of cases of the virus in the country.

The Slovak testing programme has drawn interest from across Europe, as debates continue about whether or not blanket testing is the best way to fight coronavirus. A Downing Street team travelled to Slovakia last weekend to witness the testing, keen to draw lessons before a mass testing programme due to be launched in Liverpool this weekend.

Slovak officials said the team included two Downing Street advisers and two people responsible for arranging the UK’s large-scale testing programme in Liverpool.

“They are interested in our lessons and in the details and results,” said Slovakia’s deputy defence minister, Marian Majer, who added that Slovakia has offered to send a planning team to London to help with UK preparations if required.

A No 10 spokesperson declined to comment on the visit except to say that “we are constantly seeking to evolve our testing system in order to control the spread of the virus and bring the R rate down”.

In Slovakia, the army ran the logistics of the operation, which involved 5,000 eight-person teams working over the weekend, with a combination of military and civilian medics performing the tests. Army medics from Hungary and Austria also took part in the testing.

Tests were carried out on 3.6 million out of the country’s 5.4 million population, making it the largest country to carry out a nationwide testing programme so far. A little over 1% of those tested, 38,359 people, tested positive. Rapid antigen tests made in South Korea were used, which give results within half an hour. PCR tests are more accurate but costlier and take longer to process in labs.

People were told to come to their local testing point at a particular time, depending on the alphabetical order of their surnames, though Majer admitted it had not always worked, and there were bottleneck periods with long queues. Children under 10 were not obliged to be tested, and people over 65 and those with serious medical conditions were also not recommended to take the test.

Testing was not obligatory, but those who declined to take it were required to quarantine for two weeks, along with those who tested positive. Those who took the test and did not have the virus were given a certificate allowing freedom of movement. The second phase of testing will take place this weekend in 45 of Slovakia’s 79 counties where the infection rate was higher than 0.7%.

“We are expecting to cut in half the number of positive cases,” said Majer.

Slovakia, like many countries in central Europe, had much lower case numbers than neighbours further west during spring, but has reported increasing numbers in recent weeks.

While many countries are considering the potential benefits of mass testing, given that track and trace programmes in many places are be floundering, not everyone is enthusiastic about testing the whole nation.

Richard Kollar, a mathematician from Comenius University in Bratislava, said there were two reasons why it was a waste of resources to test the whole country.

“The first reason is logistics. China can test a city of 9 million by bringing doctors from other parts of China. But when you try to organise testing the whole country, it’s simply impossible to have enough qualified personnel to do it properly,” he said.

He added that mass testing was only suitable in areas with a high prevalence of coronavirus. While the test is believed to give false positives in only 0.4% of cases, when it is used in low prevalence areas this can skew the results. The test’s 0.4% false positive rate means that from the overall sample of 3.64 million in the Slovakia test, around 15,000 of the 38,000 positive cases are likely to be false. And there will have been many more people who do have the virus which the test did not detect.

Kollar said the plan to do targeted, repeated testing in Liverpool was a better idea, but positive results should be followed up with more accurate PCR tests. “Frequent, repeated testing in the biggest clusters is what the antigen tests are perfect for,” he said.

• This article was amended on 18 November 2020 to clarify that the false positive rate of 0.4% relates to the overall sample number, rather than to the figure for positive cases as an earlier version suggested.





No.25 article:
Rights groups say poll, which Aung San Suu Kyi’s NLD is expected to win, is ‘fundamentally flawed’ 

Myanmar is preparing to go to the polls for the country’s second general election since the end of full military rule, a vote that is expected to return Aung San Suu Kyi to power, but will exclude about 2.6 million ethnic-minority voters.

While Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy rose to victory on a wave of optimism in 2015, this year’s elections are overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic, an economic crisis and intense conflict in parts of the country – where the military has been accused of atrocities reminiscent of those inflicted on Rohingya in 2017.

It is widely expected that the NLD will retain power, thanks to the popularity of its leader. Many in the Bamar majority revere her as the mother of the nation, her popularity boosted further by her decision to travel to The Hague last year and defend Myanmar against allegations of genocide. There is, however, growing apathy, and deep resentment among ethnic minorities.

An estimated 1.5 million voters from ethnic minorities in conflict-affected areas will not be allowed to participate in the election, ostensibly because of security concerns. Among them are many Rakhine Buddhists in Rakhine state, who were able to vote in 2015, but are now disenfranchised. In addition, about 1.1 million Rohingya, who have long been denied citizenship and voting rights, will be excluded.

Human Rights Watch has expressed concern over such restrictions and described the election as “fundamentally flawed”.

The decision to stop voting for many communities in conflict-stricken areas is likely to fuel already intense clashes.

According to David Mathieson, an independent analyst, it handed a propaganda coup to the Arakan Army, which is fighting one of the country’s most lethal insurgencies in Rakhine state.

“[They will say] we told you that you cannot trust the political system, we told you not to trust the government and the military. The only way to get her attention is to fight,” he said. Voting had been cancelled even in areas where fighting was limited, Mathieson added.

About 38 million people will be eligible to go to the polls, including 5 million young, first-time voters, while 90 parties will compete with the NLD.

Under the constitution, a quarter of parliamentary seats are reserved for the military. This week the army chief asserted his power in a rare interview, accusing the civilian government of “unacceptable mistakes” in the run-up to the election. The commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing, described the military as the “guardian” of the country.

Voter turnout is expected to be lower than in 2015, partly because of increased apathy. One fringe group, All Burma Federation of Students Unions, has called for a boycott, accusing the government of failing to deliver democratic reforms.

Some of its members face up to five years in prison for their involvement in anti-government protests, while dozens are in hiding, according to reports by Reuters news agency.

Fears over coronavirus may also deter some people from going to the polls. Aung San Suu Kyi decided to push ahead with an election despite a rise in cases in August.

“A lot of people including myself would have liked her to postpone the elections for just a month,” said Khin Zaw Win, the director of Tampadipa Institute in Yangon. Restrictions imposed to curb the outbreak have made it harder for smaller, ethnic-based parties, which lack access to state-based media, to carry out campaigning.

Despite this, Gar, a 30-year-old voter who did not want to give her full name, believes more people will turn towards ethnic-based parties, and dent the NLD’s majority. “I am excited that this 2020 election will show that people believe in more than just one political party,” she said.

The country faces many challenges, Gar said, adding: “Civil wars in northern Myanmar, war crimes, International Court of Justice cases [where Myanmar is accused of genocide against Rohingya Muslims] and media freedom.

“I don’t feel optimistic seeing how these cases are not handled properly. What kind of person can feel optimistic knowing all these are messed up?”

Moe Thuzar, the coordinator of the Myanmar studies programme at the ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute in Singapore, said the vote was an important moment in the transition from strict military rule. She added: “Despite the flaws, the 2020 elections in Myanmar are still a milestone in the democratisation effort.”





No.26 article:
Sunny Duong, accused of having links to Beijing, vows to fight foreign interference charge

Exclusive: the Melbourne man, who is being prosecuted under new national security laws, says he has never lived in China

 A Chinese-Australian community figure charged with a foreign interference offence has vowed to fight the charge and issued a spirited defence of his reputation, saying he has “nothing to hide”.

Di Sanh Duong, who uses the name Sunny, told Guardian Australia he has been accused of working on behalf of the Chinese Communist party – allegations he rejects.

“I’m a very popular person, I hold a lot of positions and I have nothing to hide. I will fight them in court,” he said.

“I’ve been here 42 years ... I didn’t [ever] live in China.”

Duong appeared before the Melbourne magistrates court on Thursday charged with preparing for a foreign interference offence. It was the first time someone has been charged with the offence since new national security laws were passed in 2018.

The 65-year-old is on bail and spoke to Guardian Australia from his Surrey Hills home in Melbourne’s eastern suburbs.

Duong would not answer questions about the specifics of the charge, which came after a year-long investigation undertaken by the counter foreign interference taskforce led by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in collaboration with the Australian federal police.

The AFP said in a statement that the charge related to a relationship with a foreign intelligence agency, and that action had been taken at an early stage to disrupt the alleged foreign interference, but did not release further detail. 

Duong, who also uses the name Yang Yisheng, will appear in court again in March.

He is the owner of Stone Construction Australia, which specialises in manufacturing memorials at sites in Sunshine North and Clayton South. His wife also works at the business, and the couple have a young son.

Duong had previously been a long-time employee of Nelson Bros funeral services, specialising in working with families from a Chinese or Vietnamese background.

But he is also well-known for ties to the Liberal party, which he ran for in the then-state seat of Richmond in 1996. He is reportedly still a member of the party.

In his role as president of the Oceania Federation of Chinese Organisations from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, he appeared with Alan Tudge, the acting minister for immigration and multicultural affairs, at Royal Melbourne hospital to donate $37,000 in June.

Duong said in a statement at the time: “Most members of the Indo-China ethnic Chinese community have settled in Australia for over 40 years. We consider Australia our home and wish to do our part when Australia is in need.”

Duong also claimed the association had raised almost $200,000 for bushfire relief.

In 2014, Duong travelled to Taiwan representing the association and met senior government officials, according to photos from the meeting which were posted online.

He was also invited to attend the China-Northeast Asia Expo in Changchun in 2017, but it is unclear if he made the journey.

Earlier this year, he was one of a select group of community members invited to speak to the Chinese consul general in Melbourne via Zoom.

Under Duong’s leadership, the association has also signed petitions and protested in relation to conflicts involving the South China Sea and the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands dispute, taking positions which aligned with the CCP.

He is also a director of the Museum of Chinese Australian History, the vice-president of the Victorian Chinese Memorial Foundation, which funds memorials for Chinese migrants who died during the gold rush, and an honorary adviser of the Springvale Asian Business Association.

The association’s president, Daniel Cheng, said he had known Duong for more than a decade. 

The association regularly attracts local, state and federal politicians to its events, but Cheng said he had seen no indication Duong used these occasions to improperly build relationships with these guests.

He also denied that Duong was a significant financial contributor to the association, but said he would regularly buy tickets or occasionally donate $50 to $100. 





No.27 article:
Shakespeare and Company bookshop in Paris appeals for help – in pictures

English-language bookshop asks customers for support as France enters new lockdown





No.28 article:
Dogs in prams: Taiwan&#x27;s falling birthrate sees pets outnumbering children

Trend of canine carriers goes beyond the practical and reflects changing attitudes towards pet ownership

In a quiet southern Taipei alleyway, an ageing golden retriever peers sleepily from a pram being pushed by his elderly owner. A few minutes later a stroller pushed along by a young woman rolls past, carrying a brindle-cross. 

That afternoon a puppy wearing a tuxedo and rainbow bowtie is wheeled through the heaving crowds of the Taipei Pride parade.

Dogs in prams are a common sight in Taiwan’s capital, where the city’s metro system allows pets on board only if they are in contained carriers. But observers say the trend goes beyond the practical and reflects changing attitudes towards pet ownership and a growing propensity for “fur babies” amid a declining birthrate in Taiwan.

Taiwan’s birthrate is among the lowest in Asia, and is due to delayed marriages, analysts say. Having children outside of marriage is still socially unacceptable, and economic barriers to having children include minimal maternity leave entitlements.

At the same time, pet ownership is skyrocketing. In September analysts estimated the number of Taiwanese pets had overtaken the number of children aged under 15.

As a result the pet accessory retail market is booming, and was worth US$1.52bn a year in 2015, according to Taiwan’s pet expo. Market research firm Euromonitor International said it has continued to grow ever since.

A spokeswoman for pet pram manufacturer, Ibiyaya, said sales had increased more than five-fold between 2002 and 2015, and it was still growing, with more suppliers coming on to the market. “The industry is getting more competitive while customers have more options when it comes to choosing the right pet stroller for their fur kids,” she said.

Strollers, sunglasses, raincoats and even socks for dogs are also increasingly common.

Wu Hung, the executive director of the Environment and Animal Society of Taiwan (East), worries that the desire for these items stem from “an anthropocentric way of thinking about animals and treat them as accessories for human fulfilment, rather than focusing on the animal’s needs”.

“This can lead to serious welfare problems when the best interests of the animal are overlooked.”

Hung said it was “heartening” to see a growing number of positive interactions between humans and animals, and strollers were good for improving the life of old or disabled animals, and getting them through busy urban areas, but they still needed exercise.

In Da’an Forest Park, Syin and Han are wheeling their two dogs and cat to the vet. Syin says they usually walk the dogs around the park on leashes, but today they’re in a hurry. “They still get exercise. This is for convenience so you can take them on the subway and to restaurants.”

Syin says they grew up with lots of animals around them, but she’s seen the rate of pet ownership grow, especially the younger generations.

“The first thing that comes to mind, is we don’t want to have children,” says Syin, when asked why.

“You spend more money, you have more responsibility. Even though we have to spend money and have responsibility for [our pets], but children are … I don’t know, I’m not a baby person,” she laughs.

Tom Parker, a UK citizen, Taiwan resident and owner of a Boston Terrier named Bené, says his wife makes him shelter their dog under an umbrella when it rains, but if she’s not around the dog gets wet. 

“Dogs in Taiwan are pampered and well cared for, but can also be an accessory to show off, and the more portable the better,” he says.







No.29 article:
Friday briefing: Trump's hail of election lies from White House podium

Race still not called with Biden appealing for patience … president puts on extraordinary display … Republicans disown false claims about voting process

by  Warren Murray

Hello on this Friday morning. I don’t know about you, but it feels to me like the individual days have dragged, while the week as a whole has flown, as we wait to find out for sure what America has decided.

Joe Biden has moved closer still to taking the White House but there is not yet a conclusive result in the US presidential election – and Donald Trump has been filling the delay with false proclamations that his inevitable victory is being stolen away by fraud. The truth is that mainly because of Covid-19, about two-thirds of voters cast their ballots early, including by post, compared with one-third in 2016. Counting those papers is slower because they have to be opened and verified. Some states start verifying before election day, others do not. More Democratic voters submitted postal votes than Republicans – partly due to the parties’ different views on Covid-safe voting. So the votes being counted now are tending strongly towards Biden in some areas. Here is your way in for continuing live coverage of the suspenseful election aftermath and we continue to tally the electoral college votes for each candidate when they are called to our satisfaction.

As we publish the Briefing, Trump’s lead is narrowing in Pennsylvania and Georgia. Pennsylvania would be the definite coup de grâce for his presidency, bringing Biden enough electoral college votes for the win. Democrats have also regained hope in the race for control of the Senate, with two key contests being sent to a run-off after neither Republican nor Democrat candidate won a majority.

In a droning, deflated-sounding monologue from the White House press room, the president has reeled off a stream of florid lies about the validity of the election and drawn a false distinction between “legal” votes and those cast by mail – framing the latter as illegal, when they are not. Some television networks including MSNBC cut away from the speech in short order because of the president’s lies, as Republican officialdom disowned his remarks and his support from Republican-leaning commentators appeared to implode in real time. Trump walked out after the speech without taking questions, meaning he could not be challenged on his manifold baseless assertions –the biggest and fattest of which we have debunked here line by line.

Larry Hogan, the Republican governor of Maryland, wrote after the speech: “There is no defence for the president’s comments tonight undermining our democratic process. America is counting the votes, and we must respect the results as we always have before. No election or person is more important than our democracy.” Chris Christie, New Jersey’s former Republican governor, said the president had the right to raise concerns but “show us the evidence. We heard nothing today about any evidence.” The incumbent and his followers are furious at Fox News, which has been putting on an unaccustomed display of objectivity, calling states in favour of Biden and picking apart the president’s claims.

Coronavirus latest – Overnight the government has closed the travel corridor with Denmark, meaning arrivals in the UK after 4am today will have to quarantine for 14 days. This is due to a variant strain of Covid infecting Danish-farmed mink and spreading to people. Liftoff for the Operation Moonshot rapid Covid testing initiative has not gone smoothly with a trial in Greater Manchester failing to detect more than 50% of positive cases, the Guardian can reveal. The tests are due to be used in the Liverpool trial of mass testing to begin today, but to what extent is now unclear. Charities and the mayor of London have called for the government to cancel plans to deport foreign rough sleepers and relaunch the “everyone in” strategy to accommodate thousands of homeless people during the Covid second wave. Further developments at our global coronavirus live blog.

‘Covid pressure cooker’ – The number of babies in England seriously injured through abuse or neglect during the pandemic is up by a fifth on the same period of 2019. Eight died from their injuries, according to Ofsted. More than 300 “serious incidents” were notified to authorities between April and October. Almost 40% involved children under the age of one. Amanda Spielman, Ofsted’s chief inspector, will say in a speech today that Covid lockdown is a “pressure cooker” that has created additional risk for young and vulnerable children in the most troubled families. Spielman will urge all professionals dealing with children – including midwives, health visitors, GPs, and staff of schools and nurseries – to work together to identify and protect vulnerable children in the second lockdown: “While these children are out of sight, they should never be out of mind.”

Brexit: UK ‘not ready for 1 January’ – Billions of pounds worth of trade with the EU will face “significant disruption” after 1 January 2021 regardless of whether a post-Brexit trade deal is agreed, the National Audit Office (NAO) has concluded. Its report released today says IT systems have yet to be tested and border transit areas for lorries are not ready. Auditors also highlight concerns about the checks required for goods moving to Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK. HMRC still needs to make significant changes to its customs systems, even though planning for a no-deal Brexit began in 2017. Gareth Davies, the head of the NAO, said: “Disruption is likely and government will need to respond quickly to minimise the impact, a situation made all the more challenging by the Covid-19 pandemic.”

They wouldn’t let me put a laugh/cry emoji at the end of that headline. Jonathan Freedland describes an election that has provided one clear message: the US remains divided.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/06-07393-20201105tifelection.mp3 

Sophia Loren, star of the Netflix drama The Life Ahead, looks back at her own life, from the squalor of wartime Naples to the glamour of international fame.

Arsenal went behind but made it three wins out of three in the Europa League after two own goals set them on the road to victory over Molde. Harry Kane’s header brought up his 200th Tottenham goal in 300 games and set up a 3-1 away victory over Ludogorets, while Kelechi Iheanacho scored twice and Dennis Praet and James Maddison once each in Leicester’s 4-0 win over Braga. But Celtic were sent to the bottom of their group after Lukas Julis scored a hat-trick for Sparta Prague in a stunning 4-1 away win. Ronnie O’Sullivan was involved in a bizarre exchange with Mark Allen in the final frame of their Champion of Champions quarter-final match. Rafael Nadal defeated Jordan Thompson 6-1, 7-6 - the Spaniard’s 1,001st win - to progress to the quarter-finals of the Paris Masters.

Bryony Frost, who is going for a hat-trick of wins in the Badger Beers Chase at Wincanton on Present Man, says she will be relishing the spotlight on Saturday. Disabled people face a two-pronged health risk from the Covid-19 pandemic, campaigners have warned, with the immediate danger of the virus now compounded by a long-term threat to physical health caused by a drop-off in activity. Human rights groups have condemned the confirmation that Formula One is to hold a race in Saudi Arabia next year. The Football Association chairman, Greg Clarke, told senior representatives of the Premier League and its big six clubs that he supported the clubs’ efforts to secure greater voting power for TV deals, club sources have told the Guardian. And Leicester’s preparations for the new Premiership season have been plunged into disarray after a Covid-19 outbreak forced the Tigers to shut down their training ground.

Asian stock markets have been mixed after Wall Street rose amid protracted vote-counting following this week’s US elections. Tokyo and Sydney advanced while Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul declined. Markets appear to be betting on control of the US Congress being split between Republicans and Democrats, which could mean low taxes and light regulation that investors like stays in place. The FTSE is trending 22 points or 0.37% lower at time of writing while sterling is worth $1.312 and €1.110.

“Tensions rise as race for presidency goes to wire” – that’s our Guardian print edition splash. The Times says “Trump stokes fresh fury as Biden appeals for calm”. The Metro has “Biden his time” which looked familiar because we used it in the Briefing recently – but admittedly it’s a fairly obvious one … while the i has “President in meltdown”. The FT’s version is “Trump demands halt to count as swing states hang in balance” – see what they’ve done there? The Star more or less calls the result, for the sake of fun: “Grumpy Trumpy set to lose bigly”.

Others appear to have decided it’s all too hard. The Telegraph splashes with a Covid story, “Death toll graphs were wrong”. The Express has “Rishi: we’re digging deep for the future” after the chancellor extended furlough pay. “Burglary of BBC’s Diana scandal files” says the Mail as it maintains pursuit.

A worthy cause in the Mirror – for Remembrance Sunday it speaks to the daughter of a British soldier who died in Afghanistan. The headline is “Silent prayer for Dad” – the paper is campaigning for a two-minute doorstep tribute to the fallen. The Sun has “Warning to Boris – the lock is ticking”, telling the PM to mind that England’s lockdown finishes on 2 December.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.30 article:
6 November 1995: prime minister shot at close range by 25-year-old Yigal Amir who told police ‘I acted alone on God’s orders and I have no regrets’

Israel, forced to confront its divisions by a Jewish assassin’s bullets, today buries the prime minister who promised peace, and looks ahead to a future suddenly filled with new fears of conflict.

Yitzhak Rabin was shot at close range after a triumphant peace rally in Tel Aviv on Saturday night by a 25-year-old law student, Yigal Amir, who told police: “I acted alone on God’s orders and I have no regrets.”

A known rightwing activist, Mr Amir had hoped also to kill the foreign minister, Shimon Peres, but was thwarted when his targets left the rally separately.

The killing of the premier and Nobel Peace Prize winner has made disastrously real the country’s worst nightmare: Jew killing Jew. It also puts the future of the Middle East peace process in doubt.

The signs of widening division between hawk and dove, right and left, were already apparent last night, even as tens of thousands of mourners poured past Rabin‘s coffin outside parliament in Jerusalem where the body will lie in state until the funeral in the early afternoon. Settlers on the West Bank said they feared a backlash once today’s funeral was over.

The national expression of grief and respect was echoed around the world. A tearful President Clinton declared: “Yitzhak Rabin was my partner and my friend. I admired him and I loved him very much. Because words cannot express my true feelings, let me just say ‘shalom, chaver’ - Goodbye, friend.”

The Prime Minister, John Major, said the Israeli leader “gave his life for peace. His best memorial would lie in achieving it”.

Amid worries that the assassination could rob the administration of its greatest foreign policy triumph, Mr Clinton telephoned Arab leaders and Israel’s acting prime minister, Mr Peres, in an urgent attempt to ensure the peace process does not stall.

Mr Clinton and other foreign leaders are to underline their support for the process when they address a special session of the Knesset today.

The funeral guest list is headed by Mr Clinton, who leads a delegation including the former presidents George Bush and Jimmy Carter. Monarchs, prime ministers and leaders from every quarter of the globe were flying to Israel, including King Hussein of Jordan and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.

Mr Major will also attend, along with Tony Blair, the Labour leader. They will be among 4,000 mourners, guarded by 10,000 police and troops.

A conspicuous absentee will be Mr Rabin‘s fellow Nobel peace laureate, the PLO chairman Yasser Arafat. He decided not to attend the funeral, said aides, because he did not want to provoke Israeli hardliners.

In Israel, hawk and dove, left and right, exchanged recriminations. Supporters of Mr Rabin, and of his peace process with the Palestinians, bitterly accused the rightwing opposition of creating the climate for deadly vengeance by condoning, even inciting, political extremists.

Israel and its government are in deep shock, facing hard decisions about how to respond. The only response so far has been an indefinite closure of Israel’s border with the PLO-ruled Gaza Strip and the occupied West Bank.

For the moment Mr Peres is acting prime minister of a provisional administration. President Ezer Weizman is expected to ask him to form a new government.

Mr Peres has been prime minister before, in the 1980s, and is committed to the peace process which he did more than anyone to bring to life. But he lacks Mr Rabin‘s obsessive concern with security, and his flair for convincing the public that they can have peace with safety.

Binyamin Netanyahu, the opposition leader, has already pledged the support of his Likud bloc for a new Labour-led government. “In a democracy, a government is changed by elections and not by murder,” he said. But this support is unlikely to outlive for long the political truce.

Mr Peres, in visible shock, held an emergency cabinet meeting yesterday. At one end of the table was an empty chair swathed in black material: a symbol of the void Mr Rabin‘s death has left in the government, and in the Middle East peace process.







No.31 article:
Japan to help cover IVF costs in attempt to avert demographic crisis

Birth rate remains stubbornly low despite series of government initiatives encouraging couples to have bigger families

Japan’s new prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, has given hope to couples struggling to conceive with a pledge to cover expensive fertility treatments with health insurance, but experts warn the change will do little to avert a demographic crisis.

Suga, who took office in September, identified depopulation as a major challenge for Japan during his campaign to succeed Shinzo Abe as PM and repeated his determination to tackle the low birth rate during his first policy speech in parliament.

“To support households that want to have children we will make infertility treatment applicable to insurance,” he said.

Infertility is not officially recognised as a disease in Japan and so treatment has been available only privately. Couples pay several hundred thousand yen – equivalent to thousands of dollars – for a single treatment, with a significant number paying millions of yen over several years for multiple IVF cycles. With health insurance they would pay 30% of all costs.

Despite a series of government initiatives to encourage couples to have bigger families, Japan’s birth rate remains stubbornly low. The number of newborns fell below 1 million for the first time in 2016 and to a record low of 865,000 in 2019. Experts predict this year’s total will be even lower.

In response Suga wants to bring in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and other fertility treatments into the national health insurance system, possibly in 2022, and to increase subsidies in the meantime.

Japan’s fertility rate – the average number of children a woman has during her lifetime – stood at 1.36 last year, well below the 2.1 needed to keep the population stable. The government aims to raise the rate to 1.8 and has identified cheaper access to IVF as a potential solution.

But if the trend continues Japan’s population, currently at 126 million, is forecast to fall below 100 million in 2053, and to just over 88 million in 2065, when more than 38% of the population will be aged 65 or over, according to a study by the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research.

Local authorities offer reimbursements of up to ¥1.05m to couples with a combined income of less than ¥7.3m a year although few stay with the process long enough to receive the full amount. In addition many of the couples seeking treatment are in their late 30s and exceed the income threshold.

Despite the cost and disruption of regular clinic visits, fertility treatment has become a popular option for the growing number of women who choose to marry and have children later in life since Japan registered its first birth via IVF in 1983. In 2018 a record 57,000 babies – or one in 16 – were born using the process.

Osamu Ishihara, a professor in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at Saitama Medical University, welcomed Suga’s plan but doubted it would have much impact. “I’m afraid I don’t think it will work,” he said, citing South Korea where the birth rate has continued to fall to record lows since more infertility treatments were covered by national health insurance in 2017.

“There is no simple explanation for the low birth rate … it’s a combination of complex issues in Japanese society.”

Experts say the change will do little to address the low birth rate unless it is accompanied by a cultural shift that makes it easier for women to combine work and family life, and for working men to spend more time at home helping to raise their children.

“Covering fertility treatment with health insurance will help a little, but that alone will not be enough to lift the birth rate,” said Ishihara, adding that gender inequality was also a factor in the availability of sexual health services.

“Treatments for men are quickly introduced but women are at a huge disadvantage. In the UK treatments for all aspects of women’s reproductive health are available for free on the NHS, but in Japan they have to pay for everything from contraception to abortion.”





No.32 article:
New Zealand election: Labour and Māori parties gain MP each in final results

Jacinda Ardern to govern with have 65 out of 120 seats, while Māori party doubles representation to two

New Zealand Labour’s election win has received a further boost with the release of final results from the electoral commission giving Jacinda Ardern’s party one more seat, making it 65 in the 120-seat assembly.

Labour received 50.01% of the votes, the party’s best result since 1938.

“I have to say, receiving that news this afternoon I was incredibly humbled by that mandate,” Ardern said.

“It is extraordinary to have that level of support from New Zealanders. With that comes significant responsibility. It’s our job now to get on with the plan.”

It is the first time any party has received a majority of votes in 69 years.

The commission finished counting this week, adding on special votes accounting for 17% of the overall tally. Special voters come from a variety of places but are typically overseas or out-of-electorate voters.

Labour’s MPs will be supported by 10 Greens after their party signed a cooperation agreement with Labour giving their two co-leaders ministries outside of cabinet. 

The opposition will consist of 33 National MPs, the fewest since the 2002 election. They started the 2017 term with 56 MPs, meaning they have lost 22 seats.

There are 10 ACT MPs and 2 from the Māori party.

The opposition has cycled through four leaders since Ardern became PM and ran a chaotic and unsuccessful campaign under Judith Collins.

An hour after the results were released, the deputy opposition leader and campaign chair Gerry Brownlee announced he would step down from his leadership role. “It’s time to think about the three years ahead. I want Judith to have the strongest and most complementary support beside her as leader,” he said.

National will meet on Tuesday and spill its leadership positions, though Collins is expected to retain her position.

The Māori party was the other big winner from the release of final results, gaining an extra MP from election night predictions of one, with Debbie Ngarewa-Packer joining Rawiri Waititi.

Ngarewa-Packer said she was “shocked but thrilled”.

“The Māori party succeeded against all odds and swam against the tide, our people have sent a message that they want strong Māori voices who will fight for transformative policies,” she said.

The Electoral Commission also confirmed results in two referendums conducted alongside the 2020 election. New Zealanders voted against legalising marijuana but to make euthanasia legal.

New Zealand’s MPs from 17 October election:

Labour 65 seats (up from 46 at 2017 election)

National 33 seats (down from 56)

Greens 10 (up from 8)

ACT 10 (up from 1)

Māori Party 2 (up from 0)

New Zealand First 0 (down from 9)





No.33 article:




No.34 article:
UK closes Denmark travel corridor over mink Covid scare

Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, announces travellers arriving after 4am on Friday must self-isolate for 14 days

Denmark has been removed from the British government’s list of travel corridors.

Travellers arriving in the UK from Denmark after 4am on Friday must self-isolate for 14 days.

The transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said: “I understand that this will be concerning for both people currently in Denmark and the wider UK public, which is why we have moved quickly to protect our country and prevent the spread of the virus to the UK.

“Health authorities in Denmark have reported widespread outbreaks of coronavirus in mink farms, with a variant strain of the virus spreading to some local communities. The chief medical officer has therefore recommended that, as a precautionary measure, all those returning from Denmark should self-isolate for 14 days.

“People currently in Denmark may finish their trip, follow the local rules and check the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office travel advice pages on gov.uk for further information.”





No.35 article:
Yes campaign garnered 48.4% of votes, while the no vote won 50.7%, meaning the referendum does not pass

New Zealanders have voted not to legalise cannabis in a referendum that painted a portrait of a country starkly divided over drug policy.

The yes vote for legalising cannabis finished with 48.4% of the vote, trailing the no vote on 50.7% – or just 67,662 votes out of 2.9m.

In the lead-up to the October election polls showed a country divided, with support for legalising cannabis ranging between 30-50%.

In the non-binding referendum, voters were asked to decide whether they wanted to pass a bill that would legalise cannabis and regulate how it is used and sold. This would have included producing and selling fresh and dried cannabis, including plants and seeds – for people over 20 years old. The change would also have imposed more stringent restrictions than the rules around sales of alcohol and tobacco.

Andrew Geddis, a law professor at the University of Otago, said while there was no legal imperative for an incoming government to abide by the referendum result, it would be “pretty hard for them not to act” on the vote.

The prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has repeatedly refused to state her position on cannabis but said she would let the public know how she had voted once the results were released.

Ardern recently said she has used cannabis “a very long time ago”.

Former Labour prime minister, Helen Clark, said cannabis prohibition “doesn’t work” and should be abandoned, a position echoed by many leading public health professionals.

“Clearly, the prospect of invoking criminal sanctions has had little impact on people’s behaviour,” Clark wrote in a recent opinion piece for the Guardian.

“Evidence from longitudinal studies carried out in New Zealand indicates that by the age of 25, 80% of New Zealanders will have tried cannabis at least once. Put simply, prohibition-based policy approaches have not eradicated and will not eradicate cannabis consumption and supply in New Zealand or anywhere else where its use is established.”

Cannabis is New Zealand’s most commonly used illicit drug, and the latest New Zealand Health Survey found that 15%, or 590,000 New Zealand adults used cannabis in the past 12 months.

Māori account for 16% of New Zealand’s population and are shown to be disproportionately affected by New Zealand’s drug laws, facing three times as many arrests and prosecutions for possession of cannabis than non-Māori.

Prof Papaarangi Reid, the head of the department of Māori health at the University of Auckland, has argued that legalisation would help control the potency of the drug, its price and make it less accessible to young people.

“We’re particularly concerned that Māori have borne the brunt of biased enforcement and the negative health effects of illegal cannabis,” said Reid.






