No.1 article:
Their First Try Backfired, but Giuliani and Allies Keep Aiming at Biden

The former New York mayor’s dirt-digging effort on Hunter Biden in 2019 ended with President Trump’s impeachment. Now he is back with new associates. So far it is not going exactly as planned.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

On the weekend of Oct. 10, President Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, his former adviser Stephen K. Bannon and a prominent new ally, a Chinese billionaire and Mar-a-Lago member named Guo Wengui, gathered at Mr. Guo’s luxury apartment overlooking Central Park for dinner and cigars.

Each faced some combination of legal or credibility issues, but on this night they had reason to celebrate: a plan was coming together.

That weekend, Mr. Giuliani had delivered to The New York Post a copy of a hard drive purported to be from a laptop belonging to Hunter Biden, the son of Mr. Trump’s Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. The hard drive was filled with what the men claimed was compromising material about the younger Biden that they hoped would sully his father’s reputation.

It was the latest in an often-bumbling series of attacks that began two years ago with the goal of undercutting Mr. Biden as a threat to Mr. Trump’s re-election by linking him to the messy personal and business affairs of his son.

The main impact of the attacks to that point had been a spectacular backfire: the impeachment of Mr. Trump for trying to strong-arm the Ukrainian government into announcing an investigation into the Bidens. And despite the efforts of Mr. Giuliani, who engineered the Ukrainian pressure campaign, Mr. Biden went on to win the Democratic nomination and to build a consistent lead in the polls against Mr. Trump.

Now Mr. Giuliani, undaunted and surrounded by a new cast of characters after some of his wingmen in the Ukraine caper were indicted, is trying again.

This time, he and his allies are using a mix of unsubstantiated assertions about the former vice president, innuendo and salacious material about his son, as well as records showing that Hunter Biden invoked his “family’s brand” as a reason he was valuable to a business venture, while his team’s business plan cited his father’s work in particular countries.

Mr. Giuliani and his allies — operating in parallel with a loosely linked network of conservatives — are in effect trying to recreate the blueprint Mr. Trump and his allies employed in 2016, when they used emails and documents, many stolen by Russian hackers, to paint Hillary Clinton as criminally corrupt and spread depraved conspiracy theories.

A Chinese-language media operation linked to Mr. Guo began promoting some of the material about the younger Mr. Biden weeks before it appeared in The New York Post.

The Post articles were quickly followed by others from Peter Schweizer, the conservative author who in 2016 had promoted unsubstantiated theories about corruption by the Clintons and who in this case was relying on material provided by a former associate of Hunter Biden who is serving a 30-month prison sentence for federal fraud charges. Hunter Biden was not charged in the case.

Mr. Schweizer’s work has been backed by some of the donors who fueled Mr. Trump’s rise in 2016, including the hedge fund heiress Rebekah Mercer’s family, the principal owner of the now-defunct data firm Cambridge Analytica, which also came under federal investigation after exploiting the private data of Facebook users in 2016.

Among the new participants in 2020 are some with close ties to Mr. Trump, including the former White House lawyer Stefan C. Passantino, a current White House official, Eric Herschmann, and the former Speaker Newt Gingrich. They worked to promote documents and claims by Tony Bobulinski, yet another unhappy former business partner of Hunter Biden.

But, as the anti-Biden forces quickly discovered, 2020 is not 2016.

While the president has promoted the material relentlessly, many of the Trump-friendly news outlets and other organizations that sustained the effort four years ago have been diminished or sidelined. Their 2020 replacements have had less reach, and the anti-Biden material they have been pumping out has been met with heightened skepticism from traditional news outlets and social media platforms determined to avoid being seen as abetting dirty tricks.

The New York Post articles based on the contents of the mysterious hard drive delivered by Mr. Giuliani failed to drive a broader narrative about Mr. Biden in the way that WikiLeaks did with the Clinton materials. Twitter and Facebook blocked or flagged the Post’s articles, which were published despite concerns from the paper’s newsroom.

The National Enquirer dropped its pro-Trump political advocacy after its 2016 coverage landed it in legal trouble. The Drudge Report, which had driven huge web traffic to anti-Clinton pieces, has taken a hard turn against Mr. Trump.

Provocateurs who aided Mr. Trump four years ago, like Roger Stone, one of his oldest advisers, and Alex Jones, the founder of the Infowars conspiracy site, have faced legal troubles and seen their social media accounts suspended. The foreign and domestic troll networks that carried the most outlandish anti-Clinton charges have been muted by tougher policing of their efforts from the social media platforms.

Even as Fox News has covered the anti-Biden material prodigiously, some of its staff members have challenged claims that the material is damaging to the former vice president, and have questioned Mr. Giuliani’s credibility.

While highlighting questions about the business activities of Hunter Biden and the former vice president’s brother James Biden, Mr. Giuliani and his allies have failed to prove that Joe Biden was involved in or a beneficiary of them. And they have distracted from the documents about which there are fewer questions related to the chain of custody by making unsubstantiated claims and publishing salacious pictures and videos that have no apparent relevance to Mr. Biden’s candidacy.

Mr. Giuliani expressed frustration with the way the news media was keeping its distance, and said he would have preferred to have pushed out the materials earlier.

“I would have loved to have had this six months ago,” he said in a recent interview. “It would have solved a lot of my problems.”

The three men gathered for dinner and cigars in Mr. Guo’s apartment that October evening were united by similar travails and self-interests that give them reason to curry favor with Mr. Trump.

Mr. Bannon was arrested in August on Mr. Guo’s 150-foot yacht, the Lady May, and charged with defrauding donors to a private fund-raising effort for Mr. Trump’s border wall initiative.

Mr. Guo, who faces accusations of bribery, money laundering and rape in China that he describes as a government campaign to smear him, is seeking asylum in the United States. A company that he and Mr. Bannon helped start, GTV Media, is reportedly under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I.

Mr. Giuliani came under scrutiny from federal prosecutors over whether he violated foreign lobbying laws early in the anti-Biden effort, and intelligence officials warned the White House last year that Russian agents were using him as a conduit for anti-Biden disinformation.

Mr. Bannon, Mr. Guo and Mr. Giuliani have all maintained their innocence.

They each brought something to the table: Mr. Guo’s fortune and fledgling media business, Mr. Bannon’s experience as a right-wing media warrior, and Mr. Giuliani’s influence with Mr. Trump and erratic, if determined, record of assaulting the Bidens.

Mr. Guo and Mr. Bannon began working together after Mr. Bannon left the White House in 2017, quickly bonding over their mutual antipathy toward the Chinese Communist Party.

Mr. Guo, who is also known as Miles Kwok, left China in 2014, as the government there began leveling corruption allegations against his business associates and eventually Mr. Guo. He moved to New York, buying a $67.5 million apartment along Central Park and spending time aboard the Lady May.

In the years since, he has emerged as an outspoken critic of the Chinese Communist Party. But his former association with a Chinese intelligence official and his attacks on some Chinese dissidents in the United States and elsewhere have fueled questions about his agenda.

As he seeks asylum, he has built bridges into Mr. Trump’s orbit. He is a member of Mr. Trump’s private club in Palm Beach, Fla., Mar-a-Lago, and he is represented by a lawyer, Daniel T. Podhaskie, who had worked as an outside counsel for the Trump Organization and the Trump campaign.

When Mr. Bannon left the White House, Mr. Guo gave him a $150,000 loan, which Mr. Bannon later told The New York Times was related to a film project about the Chinese Communist Party.

Soon afterward, a media company associated with Mr. Guo, Guo Media, gave Mr. Bannon a $1 million contract to introduce its executives to “media personalities” and advise it on industry standards, subjects on which Mr. Bannon had expertise as the former head of Breitbart News.

Mr. Guo’s representatives have said he is merely the face of Guo Media and not an owner, though its central property, G News, is closely identified with Mr. Guo and his cause. In April, an associated venture linked to Mr. Guo and Mr. Bannon registered as a new business in New York, GTV Media, whose central hub is a Chinese-language, anti-Communist Party video platform.

In a GTV video posted on Twitter in July, Mr. Guo described Mr. Bannon and Mr. Podhaskie as directors, noting their ties to Mr. Trump, though Mr. Bannon was removed from the board the next month after his arrest.

The venture quickly raised $300 million, but as The Wall Street Journal reported in August, its fund-raising drew scrutiny from federal and state authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I.

The media properties soon seized on a subject that represented a confluence of interest between Mr. Bannon and Mr. Guo — claims that Hunter Biden used his father’s name to make money from China.

In September, the Guo-related media world started noting chatter about hard drives purportedly belonging to Hunter Biden. In late September, the material was teased by the host of an anti-Beijing YouTube show who goes by Lu De. He is closely associated with Mr. Guo and appeared in a photograph with Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Bannon that was posted on G News and later Twitter shortly before he first brought up the material.

Weeks before the New York Post articles, Lu De, whose real name, according to GTV, is Wang Dinggang, claimed without evidence on his YouTube program that Chinese sources had sent “three hard disks” with damaging material about Chinese leaders and about Mr. Biden, including videos recorded by the Communist Party, to the Justice Department and Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

That broadcast was first reported by The Daily Beast, which also noted that three days later, a Twitter account associated with Mr. Bannon and Mr. Guo picked up that report. The tweet described “3 hard disk drives of videos and dossiers of Hunter Biden’s connections with the Chinese Communist Party” and said they had the makings of a “Big money and sex scandal!”

Salacious material published on the Guo-linked sites is being picked up regularly by fringe outlets like Infowars and Gateway Pundit, providing it a conduit to English-speaking audiences in the United States. Those outlets, though, have faced hurdles on Twitter, Facebook and other platforms that have sought to block the explicit videos and suspend accounts circulating them.

In recent days, GTV featured a notice saying it would continue to publish the videos but would “do our best” to filter graphic depictions.

Mr. Bannon asserted that the effort to limit the spread of the New York Post’s articles on social media had backfired, drawing more attention to them. “Social media overplayed this and did us a favor,” Mr. Bannon said.

It is unclear if the material featured on the sites linked to Mr. Guo is the same as that provided to The New York Post by Mr. Giuliani, which Mr. Giuliani said came from a laptop turned over to his lawyer by a computer store owner in Delaware.

Mr. Giuliani did not respond to questions about the origins of the materials featured by the Guo-linked outlets, nor did Mr. Guo’s lawyer.

But in a statement, Mr. Guo said, “I support GTV’s efforts to make the public aware of the C.C.P.’s ability to infiltrate and gain influence in the U.S. government, the media and their families and friends through corruption, drugs and sex scandals.”

He also said he had “not been involved in providing any information to The N.Y. Post regarding this story.”

Mr. Bannon said that Mr. Guo had not been connected to the acquisition of the hard drive that Mr. Bannon helped Mr. Giuliani provide to The New York Post.

But Mr. Bannon acknowledged that he pushes content to GTV, which also carries his podcast, War Room.

At the same time Mr. Bannon and Mr. Giuliani were shopping the purported hard drive, two other efforts were afoot to disseminate related information on Hunter Biden.

In one, Mr. Schweizer had obtained a cache of emails from Bevan Cooney, the former Hunter Biden associate who is in prison for fraud.

Using those emails, Mr. Schweizer and a researcher for his watchdog group, the Government Accountability Institute, have published several stories, including one trying to draw a link between Hunter Biden’s dealings in China and his associates’ efforts to arrange meetings in Washington for Chinese business leaders during the Obama administration.

Mr. Schweizer’s institute, of which Mr. Bannon was a co-founder, has received funding from Ms. Mercer’s family, according to tax records. The Mercers have also provided funding to Breitbart News, which was previously run by Mr. Bannon and which has been publishing Mr. Schweizer’s articles.

Separately, Mr. Schweizer was consulted in September about the claims made by Mr. Bobulinski, who had worked in 2017 with Hunter and James Biden on a joint venture with a Chinese conglomerate that fizzled.

According to two people familiar with the events, Mr. Bobulinski, an investor who had done business related to China, had approached allies of Mr. Trump, seeking assistance to publicize his claims.

Mr. Bobulinski, who was admittedly bitter about the way the proposed deal unraveled, was referred to Mr. Passantino, who previously worked in the White House Counsel’s Office and works with a campaign-affiliated group, Lawyers for Trump.

In an effort to vet Mr. Bobulinski’s claims and documents, Mr. Passantino was referred by Mr. Gingrich, a longtime client, to Mr. Schweizer, who wrote a book in 2018 about business dealings involving Hunter Biden in Ukraine, China and elsewhere.

Mr. Passantino “just asked advice,” Mr. Gingrich said. “And I said, ‘Look, the guy who knows the most about this is Schweizer,’ so I sent him Schweizer’s email address.”

Mr. Passantino and Mr. Bobulinski met with Mr. Schweizer in September to review the materials, and Mr. Schweizer said they comported with his own research.

Armed with that assurance, Mr. Passantino and Mr. Herschmann, who had worked first as a private lawyer for Mr. Trump, then as a member of the impeachment defense team and more recently as a West Wing official, attended a meeting in Virginia to provide Mr. Bobulinski’s documents and outline his claims to a reporter from The Wall Street Journal.

Mr. Bobulinski has asserted that the former vice president was aware of, and stood to potentially profit from, the joint venture. Mr. Bobulinski says he met twice with the former vice president after he left office.

The Journal dug into Mr. Bobulinski’s account, and in the end reported that corporate records showed “no role for Joe Biden” in the deal and that the documents provided by Mr. Bobulinski “don’t show either Hunter Biden or James Biden discussing a role for Joe Biden in the venture.”

Still, Mr. Gingrich, who posted a video this week highlighting some of the material, says it has resonated with Mr. Trump’s supporters, adding that if “you want to maximize your turnout, this is not a bad way to do it.”





No.2 article:
Americans Surge to Polls: ‘I’m Going to Vote Like My Life Depends on It’

Anxious but determined, Americans are pushing through challenges like the pandemic and long lines to cast their ballot. The country is on course to surpass 150 million votes for the first time.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

PHILADELPHIA — An unnerved yet energized America is voting with an urgency never seen before in the approach to a presidential election, as a record 90 million people have cast ballots despite an array of challenges: a pandemic, postal delays, long lines and court rulings that have tested faith in the country’s electoral system.

In Texas and Hawaii, turnout has already exceeded the total vote from 2016, with days left for absentee ballots to be returned. Ten other states, including major battlegrounds like Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, Arizona and Nevada, have surpassed 80 percent of the turnout from the last presidential election. Over all, the early turnout has set the country on course to surpass 150 million votes for the first time in history.

The impact of this huge surge in turnout is one of the most unpredictable facets of the election, as strategists in both parties parse early returns for signs of any advantage. Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee, is counting on a strong early vote to help him flip states like Florida and Arizona that President Trump carried in 2016. But Republicans are banking on their voters to turn out in bigger numbers on Election Day and deliver battleground wins, as they did in key states in 2016.

Mr. Trump, campaigning on Saturday in Bucks County, Pa., predicted a race that will be undecided on Election Day with chaos to come. 

“We’re going to be waiting,” said Mr. Trump, who has spent months disparaging voting by mail.  “Nov. 3 is going to come and go, and we’re not going to know. And you’re going to have bedlam in our country.”

Though Democrats have maintained an edge in early turnout in nearly every state that has seen record participation, Republicans have been closing the gap. In Florida, for example, 40 percent of the ballots returned came from registered Democrats, and 37.9 percent from registered Republicans, and in heavily Democratic Miami-Dade County,  registered Republicans are turning out at a slightly higher percentage than Democrats. Included in those returns are millions of ballots marked no party affiliation, with no indication whether Mr. Biden or Mr. Trump is leading.

A recent national poll by The New York Times and Siena College found that Republicans were more likely to vote on Election Day than to vote early, while Democrats showed a preference for voting early. Polls in Georgia, Iowa and other battleground states showed a similar trend.

As the nation enters one of the most consequential weeks for voting in recent years, with swaths of Americans nervous about whether their ballots will be received and counted and others determined to push through concerns about the virus to vote, officials across the country have been mounting a furious effort to shore up election systems that have been pushed to the brink. They are recruiting tens of thousands of additional poll workers, working around the clock to process ballots and keeping polling locations open late to accommodate long lines.

“I’m going to vote like my life depends on it,” Marilyn Crowder, 60, said as she waited in a line a block long at Anna B. Day School in Northwest Philadelphia this week. The school, one of 17 early voting locations open for the first time in Philadelphia, has for weeks drawn lines of voters filing down the street.

For Ms. Crowder, a cancer survivor, the pandemic was a motivating factor, as well what she saw as attempts by Republicans to make it harder to vote. “I personally felt powerless to do anything about it, except what I’m doing now,” she said. “And now I’m making phone calls.”

Les Bignell, 59, a sewer liner from West Allis, Wis., said he dropped his absentee ballot in the box at City Hall earlier this week, casting a vote for Mr. Trump as he did in 2016.  “I did it because of my bank account,’’ he said. “When the lockdown first happened I lost a lot of money, but I got it all back already.”

Never before in modern American politics has the electorate faced so many unknowns while so many Americans still pushed forward to cast their ballots through the mail and in person.

“The issues that are facing this country are generational,” said Michael McDonald, a professor of political science at University of Florida. He said the pandemic and the Black Lives Matter movement, coupled with the heightened political engagement since Mr. Trump’s election, had produced a highly energized electorate.

“We wish we could care about other things in our lives, but right now, politics matter so much, and people are engaged,” he said. Of course, non-battleground states, or states without a competitive statewide race, are unlikely to generate such intense voter interest, and early turnout can sometimes lag for reasons ranging from different start dates to disruptions from a hurricane.

But amid the swelling turnout is growing concern over the yawning gap between absentee ballots that have been requested and those that have been returned. With just days to go, 36 million ballots that were requested have either not been returned or have been rejected. Many of those ballots could still be in the mail or in processing or might have been sent to people who now plan to vote in person.

Any problems with the early vote are also likely to affect Democrats more than Republicans. In almost every state, Democrats have requested absentee ballots at a higher rate than Republicans. In Pennsylvania, nearly two million registered Democrats requested absentee ballots, compared with fewer than 790,000 Republicans. And while 70 percent of those Democratic voters have returned their ballots, roughly 590,000 ballots sent to registered Democratic voters have not yet been returned, along with 360,000 ballots sent to registered Republicans.

The process has been further disrupted by a wave of litigation that has often pitted Democrats fighting to expand access to absentee voting against Republicans seeking tighter restrictions. Lawsuits have, among other issues, disrupted ballot deadlines in key states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Minnesota, and sought to limit the use of drop boxes in Pennsylvania and Texas. Court rulings were coming as late as Thursday night, just days before the election.

For Pennsylvania, the Supreme Court left open a possibility of a future ruling on ballots that are postmarked by Election Day but arrive late, and the secretary of state told all county election officials to segregate those ballots.

Worries about the U.S. Postal Service have added to the anxiety. The agency said in a filing that staffing issues resulting from the pandemic were causing problems in some facilities, including in central Pennsylvania. Only 78 percent of employees are available, according to the filing. 

John Bloom, a voter in Cumberland County, near Harrisburg, said he and roughly 30 others were planning to head to the polls on Election Day to void the ballots they had requested and vote in person after seeing suggestions on social media from local Democratic officials.

“People are very worried that our mail-in votes, which likely will contain a good portion of the county’s Democratic vote, will not get counted,” Mr. Bloom said.

Kathy Boockvar, the secretary of state in Pennsylvania, said the state was expecting a large surge of ballots to arrive in the final days. Nearly 50 percent of the absentee ballots during the primary were returned in the final week, including almost 175,000 on the day before the primary.

“I feel really good about where we are, but I want to leave nothing to chance, which is why we’re spending so much energy focusing on telling voters to get your ballots in,” Ms. Boockvar said. “Do not put them in the mail; drop them off in person.”

Perhaps no state has seen a greater surge than Texas, a suddenly competitive state for Mr. Biden. More than nine million voters had cast their ballots there as of Friday, despite restrictions ordered by Gov. Greg Abbott that limited ballot drop-off locations to one per county.

Raquel Gair Sutton, a former teacher from Arlington and a Democrat, said she always casts her ballot on the first day of early voting. This year, with her husband running for mayor, she waited four and a half hours to vote, beating her previous record by about three hours.

“I was blown away,” said Ms. Sutton, whose husband, a local City Council member, has served as the election judge for their local precinct in Tarrant County. “I think it means good things for Biden, but we thought that four years ago. People are just ready for change.”

In Georgia, where public polls show the two candidates engaged in a tight race, officials expect overall turnout to increase dramatically and to exceed the 4.1 million people who voted in 2016, when the state supported Mr. Trump over Hillary Clinton by five percentage points.

Pointing to record turnout in absentee and early voting, Brad Raffensperger, the secretary of state, said he believed that as many as six million people would vote.

In the first days of early voting, some Georgians endured waits of eight hours or more to cast ballots. Yet while anecdotal reports suggested heavy turnout among Black voters, Andrea Young, executive director of the A.C.L.U. of Georgia, said it was too early to tally the percentage of votes by African-Americans because thousands of absentee ballots had not been returned.

Deidre Holden, supervisor of elections in Paulding County, part of the Atlanta metropolitan area, blamed the long lines on a slowdown in a statewide computer system where votes are recorded so no one could cast two ballots.

“Because so many people, so many workers, were trying to access the system, it was like a bottleneck,” Ms. Holden said, adding that the problem had been corrected by the third day of early voting.

In Michigan, 2.6 million voters have already cast their ballots, and turnout is nearing 60 percent of 2016 levels. The secretary of state has committed to keeping as many polling locations open as possible on Tuesday.

But Kimberly Korona, 38, of Farmington Hills, took a day off from work to drop off her ballot for Mr. Biden earlier this month — “to save Democracy,’’ she said.

In Wisconsin, another battleground state where Mr. Biden has maintained a steady single-digit lead, turnout has approached nearly 80 percent of the 2016 total.

“It’s history making numbers with regard to our early voting,” said Mayor Eric Genrich of Green Bay, who said that turnout in his city was at about 50 percent of the 2016 level. This past week, voters lined the foyer of Green Bay City Hall while waiting to cast their ballots early.

The city got a grant to upgrade its counting equipment. Still, Mr. Genrich warned of delays in tabulating the votes.

“It’s going to take longer than people are used to,” Mr. Genrich said.





No.3 article:
Can Trump Woo Enough Black Men to Hurt Biden in Battleground States?

On the ground and in TV ads, the candidates are in an intense and surprising battle for Black male voters, who are crucial for Democrats trying to win back Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

[Read our 2020 presidential election electoral college explainer.]

DETROIT — Four years after an election that came down to Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the campaigns of Joseph R. Biden Jr. and President Trump are waging an intense and surprising battle in those states for votes among a crucial demographic: Black men.

The outreach is vital for Democrats, who lost the three industrial states in 2016 partly because of diminished support from Black voters. They worry that not enough Black men will cast ballots — or that Mr. Trump might make enough marginal gains to help in close races.

The Biden campaign is now heavily focused on getting Black men to turn out to vote: Mr. Biden and former President Barack Obama are campaigning together for the first time this year on Saturday in Detroit and Flint, Mich. Mr. Biden is also running a series of ads featuring young Black men from Flint, tying local issues to the election. One walks through the history of Black voter suppression; another starts with Mr. Biden saying “Black Lives Matter, period.”

In Philadelphia, where Hillary Clinton had strong but not surging support from Black voters in 2016, the Biden camp also deployed Mr. Obama for a day of campaigning, sent Senator Cory Booker to Sunday round tables in the city’s northern neighborhoods, and relied on leaders like Sharif Street, a state senator and the son of former Mayor John F. Street, to canvass neighborhoods multiple times.

The Trump strategy has aimed to erode Mr. Biden’s support with a negative campaign. One television ad replays Mr. Biden’s controversial “you ain’t Black” comment, in which he questioned how Black Americans could support Mr. Trump, and reprises his role in the 1994 crime bill. A set of 40 digital ads claiming “Joe Biden Insulted Millions of Black Americans” has been running across the country for the past week.

The battle for Black men is one of the more surprising developments in a race that has been defined by the monthslong stable lead of Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump in many polls. Republicans are making a concerted push to cut into the Democrats’ base of Black support in battleground states, as well as drive up their own numbers of Latino voters, and some polling suggests the effort has been moderately successful.

Mr. Biden held a 78-11 percentage point lead among Black men in a recent national poll from The New York Times and Siena College, a comparatively weak number for a Democratic nominee whose ticket includes the first Black woman selected as vice president. (Many undecided Black voters are widely expected to vote Democratic, though a number could well stay home.)

Mr. Trump won roughly 13 percent of Black male voters in 2016, according to exit polls; some Trump advisers are aiming to get closer to 20 percent next week.

Among some Black men, there is a belief that Mr. Biden carries similar baggage to Mrs. Clinton: a policy history that includes helping pass legislation that contributed to large increases in Black prison populations, and a party history in which they feel Democratic candidates are more concerned with winning Black voters than improving the conditions of Black communities.

Demery Charleston, a 42-year-old who lives in a suburb of Detroit called Harper Woods, said he was voting for Republicans because he believed they spoke out more forcefully against violence within Black communities and the incidents of looting that occurred during a summer of protests.

“I’m talking about the real Detroit. I don’t see these protesters marching in these neighborhoods,” Mr. Charleston said. “A 7-year-old girl gets shot in the neighborhood, and there’s nothing. It’s real hypocrisy,” he added, referring to a girl who was shot by someone driving by her Detroit home in May.

Mr. Obama, for one, tried to respond to such criticism of Democrats by delivering a direct message to Black men at a recent event in Philadelphia: Don’t get cynical.

“What I’ve consistently tried to communicate this year, particularly when I’m talking to young brothers, who may be cynical of what can happen, is to acknowledge to them that government and voting alone is not going to change everything,” Mr. Obama said. “But we did make things better.”

To understand why some Black men would be drawn to a president who has expressed racist sentiments, stoked white grievances for political gain and was the political face of the birther lie against America’s first Black president, is to grapple with the complexity of the Black experience. In interviews with more than two dozen Black men across swing states, including Florida, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, they described voting rationales as a complex web of race, gender and socioeconomic status — with policy concerns like health care, immigration and the coronavirus pandemic.

Todd Holden, who joined an hourslong line on the final day of early voting in Philadelphia, said he was primarily driven to vote against Mr. Trump, but he was also drawn to Mr. Biden’s promise to act on climate change.

“Biden and Harris have a huge climate change platform which is big,” Mr. Holden, 29, said. “From 2016, up until this point, it’s seemed almost like a mission to roll back everything Obama has done with the environment.”

Several Black men, including ones backing Mr. Trump, said voting was a means to an end: a determination on how best to work a system that has not historically prioritized Black advancement.

“We’ve been voting for Democrats for 50 and 60 years and no progress,” said Marco Bisbee, who attended Mr. Trump’s recent rally in Lansing, Mich., along with his 13-year-old son, Quavion. “Y’all had eight years of a Black man as president — he ain’t give you what you need.”

Mr. Bisbee, one of the few Black men at the rally, voted for Mrs. Clinton in 2016 but now plans to vote for Mr. Trump. He decided to support Republicans after what he described as unfair treatment of Brett Kavanaugh, Mr. Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court, who was accused of sexual assault during his confirmation hearings.

Hakim Rahman, a 23-year-old from Philadelphia, said his disillusionment with Democrats began soon after he voted for Mrs. Clinton in 2016, when he grew frustrated with what he felt was unfair pressure put on Black voters to vote Democratic.

“Just seeing Joe Biden saying ‘you ain’t Black,’ it’s exposing that the Democrats feel entitled to the Black vote,” said Mr. Rahman, as he waited in a nearly two-hour line to vote early outside City Hall. He decried what he viewed as a distorted media portrayal of Mr. Trump as a racist, and said that efforts like the bipartisan criminal justice bill signed by Mr. Trump and economic opportunity zones had helped Black Americans.

Make no mistake: Democrats are likely to win an overwhelming share of Black votes, and the vast majority of votes from Black men. Mr. Trump’s efforts — whether it’s showcasing Black speakers at the Republican National Convention, highlighting endorsements from Black rappers like Lil Wayne and Ice Cube, or emphasizing his support for historically Black colleges and universities — are attempts to cut into Mr. Biden’s share of Black voters.

In the Philadelphia region, that G.O.P. effort strikes a nerve. In 2016, the overall turnout in the predominantly Black neighborhoods of north and northwest Philadelphia was down compared with 2012, even as late campaign events featuring Mrs. Clinton drew huge crowds.

For the past few weekends, Representative Dwight Evans, whose district includes north Philadelphia, has driven a caravan of cars around the neighborhoods, with placards declaring “Black Voters Win Elections” duct taped to the sides, making pit stops in grocery plazas to talk to voters and pass out literature, reminding them that the neighborhoods were once food deserts until Democrats fought for changes.

“Remember when Trump said, particularly to the Black community, in August of 2016, ‘What the hell do you have to lose?’ Well, you could lose this building, these blocks,” Mr. Evans said, standing in the parking lot of a ShopRite off Fox Street.

Mr. Street, who is vice chair of the state Democratic Party, canvassed recently in Chester, a majority Black city in Delaware County, just outside Philadelphia. He knocked on doors with John Kane, a white plumber running for State Senate, on a block that had low turnout in the last election.

To Mr. Street, the battle was less about convincing Black voters in this city to vote for Democrats. It was simply convincing them to turn out.

“These folks that we convinced today by showing up, for the Black and brown community, it’s not Trump or Biden,” Mr. Street said as he made a second lap down 8th Street. “It’s voting for the Democrats or staying at home.”

Election experts and forecasters said there was little chance Mr. Trump’s inroads with Black men could swing a state election outcome unless he also attracted more suburban voters, seniors and college-educated whites.

The Trump efforts have also inspired some backlash.

“All the Black radio stations I’m calling into, we get to kind of a conversation where people feel deeply offended that there’s an active effort to suppress their vote or create obstacles for them voting,” said Mr. Booker, the New Jersey senator.

In Wisconsin, Democrats are seeking to energize the Black men in Milwaukee who may have sat out the last election — while holding on to white voters in other parts of the state. Even among more progressive men, who did not see Mr. Biden as their top choice in the Democratic primary, there was a sense that ousting Mr. Trump was the first step to seeing real change.

Throughout Michigan, a state Mr. Trump narrowly won in 2016 but is trailing by several points now, some voters said a key to Black turnout was whether younger Black men got involved.

Darren Mosley, a 54-year-old Detroit resident who attended an event with Senator Gary Peters this week, said Democrats made reaching young voters harder, but not impossible, by nominating an older candidate.

“We need some young blood,” Mr. Mosley said. “Look at the age of senators and people in office. They don’t have young minds. We need younger thinking so we can move forward and keep young voters encouraged.”

For some Black male voters, their argument for Mr. Biden at this point was one of harm reduction — that supporting Democrats would lower the chances of life getting worse, even if it didn’t ensure that everything would become better. But that was a calculation rejected by Mr. Bisbee, the man who brought his son to Mr. Trump’s rally in Lansing.

Asked about some of the president’s most controversial comments about race, including using profanity to describe some African countries, Mr. Bisbee dismissed it.

“Was he not telling the truth?” he responded.

But even he had limits to his support. He laughed when asked whether he thought the president was a role model.

“I wouldn’t go that far,” he said. “But we elected him to do a job.”

He and his teenage son then walked into the rally.





No.4 article:
Sean Connery, Who Embodied James Bond and More, Dies at 90

To legions of fans who have watched a parade of actors play Agent 007, none played the part as magnetically or as indelibly as Mr. Connery.

Sean Connery, the irascible Scot from the slums of Edinburgh who found international fame as Hollywood’s original James Bond, dismayed his fans by walking away from the Bond franchise and went on to have a long and fruitful career as a respected actor and an always bankable star, has died in Nassau, the Bahamas. He was 90. 

His death, in his sleep either late Friday or early Saturday, was confirmed by his family. His wife, Micheline Roquebrune, told the British newspaper The Daily Mail that he had struggled with dementia.

“Bond, James Bond” was the character’s familiar self-introduction, and to legions of fans who have watched a parade of actors play the role — otherwise known as Agent 007 on Her Majesty’s Secret Service — none uttered the words or played the part as magnetically or as indelibly as Mr. Connery.

Tall, dark and dashing, he embodied the novelist Ian Fleming’s suave and resourceful secret agent in the first five Bond films and seven over all, vanquishing diabolical villains and voluptuous women alike beginning with “Dr. No” in 1962.

As a more violent, moody and dangerous man than the James Bond in Fleming’s books, Mr. Connery was the top box-office star in both Britain and the United States in 1965 after the success of “From Russia With Love” (1963), “Goldfinger” (1964) and “Thunderball” (1965). But he grew tired of playing Bond after the fifth film in the series, “You Only Live Twice” (1967), and was replaced by George Lazenby, a little-known Australian actor and model, in “On Her Majesty’s Secret Service” (1969).

Mr. Connery was lured back for one more Bond movie, “Diamonds Are Forever” (1971), only by the offer of $1 million as an advance against 12 percent of the movie’s gross revenues. Roger Moore took over for “Live and Let Die” (1973) and continued to play the part for another 12 years. George Lazenby’s career never took off. James Bond has been played by Daniel Craig since 2006.

Mr. Connery would revisit the character one more time a decade later, in the elegiac “Never Say Never Again” (1983), in which he wittily played a rueful Bond feeling the anxieties of middle age. But he had made clear long before then that he was not going to let himself be typecast.

He searched out roles that allowed him to stretch as an actor even during his Bond years, among them as a widower obsessed with a woman who is a compulsive thief in Alfred Hitchcock’s “Marnie” (1964) and as a raging, amoral poet in the satire “A Fine Madness” (1966). His first post-Bond performance was as a burned-out London police detective who beats a suspect to death in “The Offence” (1972), the third of five movies he made for the celebrated director Sidney Lumet. The others were “The Hill” in 1965, “The Anderson Tapes” in 1971, “Murder on the Orient Express” in 1974 and “Family Business” in 1989.

“Nonprofessionals just didn’t realize what superb high-comedy acting that Bond role was,” Mr. Lumet once said. “It was like what they used to say about Cary Grant. ‘Oh,’ they’d say, ‘he’s just got charm.’ Well, first of all, charm is actually not all that easy a quality to come by. And what they overlooked in both Cary Grant and Sean was their enormous skill.”

In the 1970s and ’80s, Mr. Connery gracefully transformed himself into one of the grand old men of the movies. If his trained killer in the futuristic fantasy “Zardoz” (1974), his Barbary pirate in “The Wind and the Lion” (1975) or his middle-aged Robin Hood in “Robin and Marian” (1976) did not erase the memory of his James Bond, they certainly blurred the image.

Mr. Connery won a best-actor award from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts for “The Name of the Rose” (1986), based on the Umberto Eco novel, in which he played a crime-solving medieval monk, and the Academy Award as best supporting actor for his performance as an honest cop on the corrupt Chicago police force in “The Untouchables” (1987). Mr. Connery taught himself to understand that character — Jim Malone, a cynical, streetwise police officer whose only goal is to be alive at the end of his shift — by noting the other characters’ attitudes toward him.

After reading Malone’s scenes, he told The Times in 1987, he read the scenes in which his character did not appear. “That way,” he said, “I get to know what the character is aware of and, more importantly, what he is not aware of. The trap that bad actors fall into is playing information they don’t have.”

Even before his acting ability was apparent, the 6-foot-2 Mr. Connery had a remarkable physical presence, onscreen and off. Lana Turner picked him to play the war correspondent with whom she tumbles into bed in the forgettable 1958 melodrama “Another Time, Another Place.” He earned his chance as Bond when the producers Albert Broccoli and Harry Saltzman watched him walk.

“We signed him without a screen test,” Mr. Saltzman said.

Mr. Connery’s magnetism did not fade as he grew older. In 1989, when he was 59 years old and had long since discarded his James Bond toupee, People magazine anointed him the “Sexiest Man Alive.” His response was to growl that not many men are sexy when they’re dead.

“The Man Who Would Be King” (1975), directed by John Huston, in which Mr. Connery played a British soldier who sets out to loot a country and is mistaken for a god, was among the highlights of his second act. When Mr. Huston had first tried to finance a movie based on Rudyard Kipling’s short story of the same name 20 years earlier, he intended the role of Danny Dravot, the exuberant rogue who fatally begins to believe in his own grandeur, for Clark Gable, the undisputed king of Hollywood during the 1930s and ’40s. (The role of his companion Peachy Carnehan, played by Michael Caine, was originally intended for Humphrey Bogart.) Mr. Connery was, Pauline Kael of The New Yorker wrote, “a far better Danny than Gable would ever have been.”

She continued: “With the glorious exceptions of Brando and Olivier, there’s no screen actor I’d rather watch than Sean Connery. His vitality may make him the most richly masculine of all English-speaking actors.” Few actors, she added, “are as un-self-consciously silly as Connery is willing to be — as he enjoys being.”

If he enjoyed being silly on the screen, Mr. Connery was darker and more complex when the arc lights were turned off. Always afraid of being cheated, he audited the books of almost all of his movies and sued anyone he thought was taking advantage of him, from his business manager to the producers of the Bond films.

In 1978 he and Mr. Caine filed suit against Allied Artists, the distributor of “The Man Who Would Be King,” over the way their share of the movie’s receipts was calculated. (The case was settled out of court.) He was still at it in 2002, suing the producer Peter Guber and Mandalay Pictures for backing out of “End Game,” a C.I.A. thriller in which Mr. Connery was to star. He later dropped the suit.

The lasting resentment behind his many lawsuits, which he carried with him from his childhood, was also one of the keys to his success as an actor.

He was born Thomas Sean Connery on Aug. 25, 1930, and his crib was the bottom drawer of a dresser in a cold-water flat next door to a brewery. The two toilets in the hall were shared with three other families. His father, Joe, earned two pounds a week in a rubber factory. His mother, Effie, occasionally got work as a cleaning woman.

At the age of 9, Thomas found an early-morning job delivering milk in a horse cart for four hours before he went to school. His brother, Neil, had been born in December 1938, and the usual meals of porridge and potatoes had to be stretched four ways. Once a week, if the family had a sixpence to spare, Thomas would walk to the public baths and swim “just to get clean.”

Like the months that 12-year-old Charles Dickens spent working in a factory that made shoe blacking, Mr. Connery’s deprived childhood informed the rest of his life. When he was 63, he told an interviewer that a bath was still “something special.”

His anger was never far below the surface. What he called his “violent side,” he told The Times, may have been “ammunitioned” by his childhood. (He sometimes acknowledged that side in shocking ways. In a 1965 interview, he said, “I don’t think there is anything particularly wrong about hitting a woman”; asked about those words by Barbara Walters in 1987, he said, “I haven’t changed my opinion.” He did eventually say he had been wrong, but not until many years later.)

The same was true of his odd combination of penury and generosity.

A passionate golfer — he discovered the game about the same time he discovered James Bond — he was the only player at the Bel-Air Country Club in Los Angeles who carried his own bag. Yet he gave the million dollars he earned on “Diamonds Are Forever” to the Scottish International Education Trust, an organization he founded to help poor Scots get an education.

When asked why he was willing to take second billing as a coal miner saboteur to Richard Harris’s company spy in “The Molly Maguires” (1970), he said, “They paid me a million dollars for it, and, for that kind of money, they can put a mule ahead of me.” But he donated 50,000 pounds to England’s National Youth Theater after he read that the theater needed money. An ardent supporter of Scottish nationalism, he also gave 5,000 pounds a month to the Scottish National Party.

As a national referendum on independence approached in 2014, Mr. Connery wrote an opinion article for The New Statesman arguing in favor of it.

“As a Scot and as someone with a lifelong love for both Scotland and the arts, I believe the opportunity of independence is too good to miss,” he wrote. “Simply put — there is no more creative act than creating a new nation.” However, because his primary residence was not in Scotland, Mr. Connery was not eligible to vote.

At the age of 13, Thomas Connery became a full-time milkman. Britain had been at war for four years, and any able-bodied boy could get a job. Three years later, with the soldiers coming home and work scarcer, he joined the Royal Navy.

He signed up for 12 years, but was discharged at 19 after acquiring an ulcer. He had also acquired two tattoos on his right arm — “Mum and Dad” and “Scotland Forever” — and a small disability grant, which he used to learn furniture polishing. Then he went to work putting the finish on coffins. In his off hours he took up soccer (he played semiprofessionally) and bodybuilding.

Bodybuilding led indirectly to acting. In 1953, he and a friend went to London to compete in the Mr. Universe contest. Mr. Connery got a minor award — third place in the tall man division, according to most accounts — but, more important, while there he heard about auditions for a touring production of the musical “South Pacific.” He was chosen for the chorus because he looked like a sailor and could do handstands.

During the year Mr. Connery toured in “South Pacific,” he lost much of a Scottish accent so impenetrable that, he later claimed, other actors at first thought he was Polish. His name was shortened to Sean Connery. And he found himself a mentor. An American actor in the cast, Robert Henderson, gave him a reading program that included all the plays of George Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde and Henrik Ibsen, along with the novels of Thomas Wolfe, Proust’s “Remembrance of Things Past” and Joyce’s “Ulysses.”

“I spent my ‘South Pacific’ tour in every library in Britain, Ireland, Scotland and Wales,” Mr. Connery told The Houston Chronicle in 1992. “And on the nights we were dark, I’d see every play I could. But it’s the books, the reading, that can change one’s life. I’m the living evidence.”

The next few years were a blend of small stage and television roles. His lucky break came on March 31, 1957. Jack Palance was to have starred in Rod Serling’s “Requiem for a Heavyweight” on live television for the BBC. Mr. Palance had triumphed in the same role the previous year on “Playhouse 90.” But he canceled at the last minute, and Mr. Connery inherited the role of the aging boxer Mountain McClintock. Although miscast, a reviewer for The Times of London wrote, he had “shambling and inarticulate charm.” Within 24 hours, Mr. Connery had gotten his first movie offers.

A string of B-movies followed, including “Action of the Tiger” (1957), a thriller starring Van Johnson in which he had a small part, and “Tarzan’s Greatest Adventure” (1959), in which he played a villain out to destroy a village. He also played a private in the all-star D-Day saga “The Longest Day” (1962) and a man enchanted into falling in love in Disney’s “Darby O’Gill and the Little People” (1959).

“In these early films,” observed the novelist and filmmaker Michael Crichton, who directed Mr. Connery in “The Great Train Robbery” (1979), “Connery exudes a rich, dark animal presence that is almost overpowering.”

His Count Vronsky opposite Claire Bloom’s Anna in a 1961 BBC television adaptation of Tolstoy’s “Anna Karenina” caught the attention of the men who were about to produce “Dr. No.”

Both Mr. Connery and the character he played were instant sensations. “James Bond is clearly here to stay,” Variety wrote prophetically after “Dr. No” opened. “He will win no Oscars but a lot of enthusiastic followers.”

Mr. Connery and Diane Cilento, an actress he had met when they played lovers in a television version of Eugene O’Neill’s “Anna Christie” in 1957, were married on Nov. 30, 1962. Their son, Jason, who would grow up to become an actor, was born six weeks later.

The marriage lasted, more or less, until Mr. Connery met Ms. Roquebrune, a French artist and fervent golfer, at a golf tournament in Morocco in 1970. She was married, he was married, and they both won medals. After their marriage in 1975, they lived in Marbella, Spain, mostly to avoid British income taxes but partly because of Marbella’s 24 golf courses.

In addition to his wife and his son Jason, his survivors include a stepson, Stephane, and his brother.

By the time he returned to the role of James Bond in “Never Say Never Again,” at Ms. Roquebrune’s suggestion, Mr. Connery was in financial trouble because his former accountant had put the money he earned from the Bond films into unsecured property investments. Mr. Connery sued and won a $4.1 million judgment for negligence in 1984, but told reporters, “I don’t foresee I’ll get any money.”

Almost from the time he left James Bond behind, Mr. Connery shifted from gorgeous young man to character star. “The reason Burt Lancaster had a longer, more varied career than Kirk Douglas was that he refused to allow himself to be limited,” Mr. Connery told The Times in 1987. “He was more ready to play less romantic parts, and was more experimental in his choice of roles. And that’s the way I’ve tried to be. I don’t mind being older or looking stupid.”

Often willing to take roles in bad pictures if the money was good enough, Mr. Connery was the voice of a computer-generated dragon in “Dragonheart” (1996) and a villain trying to unleash a weather catastrophe on London in the misfire film version of the cult British television series “The Avengers” (1998). But he had more than his share of late-career triumphs as well.

He relished his role as Harrison Ford’s eccentric father in “Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade” (1989) — even though Mr. Ford was only 12 years younger than he was. The next year he played a Russian nuclear submarine commander trying to defect to the United States in the film of Tom Clancy’s “The Hunt for Red October” and a hard-drinking but naïve British publisher recruited by British intelligence in post-Cold War Russia in “The Russia House,” based on John le Carré’s novel.

Mr. Connery’s last movie was one of his lesser ones: “The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen” (2003), an unsuccessful screen adaptation of a clever comic-book series about a group of Victorian heroes.

In 2005, he told an interviewer that he was done with acting, less because of his age than because of the “idiots now making films in Hollywood.” Five years later, he told another interviewer: “I don’t think I’ll ever act again. I have so many wonderful memories, but those days are over.” Except for some voice-over work, and despite occasional talk of possible new projects, they were.

On July 5, 2000, wearing a dark green MacLean tartan, Mr. Connery was knighted at the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh by Queen Elizabeth II. It was a knighthood that had been vetoed for two years by officials angry at his outspoken support for the Scottish National Party and his active role in the passage of a referendum that created the first Scottish Parliament in 300 years.

The palace is less than a mile from the tenement in Fountainbridge where Mr. Connery grew up. He never removed the “Scotland Forever” tattoo that he placed on his arm when he was 18. Nor was he ever tempted to deny his identity or turn himself into an English gentleman. As he told The Times in 1987, “My strength as an actor, I think, is that I’ve stayed close to the core of myself.”





No.5 article:
Some Areas of N.Y.C. Are Getting a Lot More Testing. Guess Which Ones.

Coronavirus tests are free, yet data show some wealthy neighborhoods are testing at nearly four times the rate of poor neighborhoods. Why?

This week, in an anxious nation where nearly any encounter with a screen has become triggering, Kim Kardashian West took a shot with all her firepower, announcing plans for her 40th birthday. To the undoing of Twitter, she noted that she had flown friends and family to a private island to pretend “things were normal just for a brief moment.” The pandemic at the heart of the current peculiarities was easily circumvented by quarantine and “2 weeks of multiple health screens.”

Covid cases are now rising around the country, with the prospect of the holidays heightening the fear of another wave. In an effort to avert further disaster, mayors and governors have begun to preach a doctrine of mirthlessness to American families — this will be the year of pie eaten alone in front of an iPad. Many will have little choice but to comply.

Others, however, will find a way to create their own private islands, traveling to places where they will sit at long communal tables, conviviality unhindered. The difference, in many instances, will come down to testing, who does and does not get it, another mark of division amid all the gripping upheaval that is shaped by class.

In New York, the disparities are unmistakable. Recently, Wil Lieberman-Cribbin, a doctoral student in environmental health at Columbia, tabulated the prevalence of coronavirus testing in the city, during the months of September and October, according to ZIP code.

Overwhelmingly, the wealthiest neighborhoods — in fact, most of Manhattan below 110th Street — showed the highest rates of testing, while the poorest neighborhoods, in Central Brooklyn and the South Bronx, for example, largely correlated with the lowest. In some instances, the differences between the most affluent communities and the least advantaged were four times as great.

So many months into the pandemic, these inequities might have been corrected; instead they have simply been left to persist. In September, Mr. Lieberman-Cribbin, in conjunction with fellow researchers, published a paper in The American Journal of Preventive Medicine that looked at analogous testing data for March and April and found a similar imbalance. The authors concluded that widespread testing and public-health outreach was urgently needed in the city’s most vulnerable populations.

As it happened, the tide took things in a different direction. In effect, testing among the privileged was routinized. It became a function of neurosis; of a return to office work or private school; of an iron will to avoid certain constraints and sacrifices in lifestyle. In recent years, urgent-care centers have come to fill gentrified neighborhoods, making it no harder to get a Covid test in many places than it is to pick up a box of Raisin Bran; concierge medicine, delivering quick results, has filled other parts of the void.

As Emanuela Taioli, the director of the Institute for Translational Epidemiology at Mount Sinai, pointed out, testing in Manhattan has evolved as a mechanism for screening and contact tracing, while in low-income communities, it has been deployed more narrowly as a diagnostic tool for those already experiencing symptoms or otherwise at high risk.

This is not the way to contain a virus. What concerns public-health experts is that high rates of positivity have emerged in areas with low rates of testing, which suggests that infection could be much more widespread than it appears. In the early days of the pandemic, testing was virtually impossible for all but the visibly sick. Since then, the city has created 200 testing sites, where it is free. But disseminating information about these sites — where they are, what sort of identification is needed when you get there, what risks the process might pose to immigration status and so on — has been fraught.

To address some of this confusion, the Health Department created “tailored webinars.” But, along with other online sources, they have turned out to be of little use to the many low-income people with no internet access. “We just don’t have the technology,” Shirlene Cooper, an AIDS activist living in Flatbush, Brooklyn, told me. “For me, a person living with H.I.V., no one told me what to do.”

In the view of Beverly Xaviera Watkins, a social epidemiologist at the University of California-Irvine, messaging in low-income communities of color hasn’t been inadequate; it has been “horrendous.” It has had little success overriding deeply held suspicions of a medical class that has a long history of exploiting Black Americans or disabling a broader mistrust of government. These strains of doubt are amplified in public housing, where decades of neglect and deceit have resulted in buildings tainted with lead paint and mold and a vanished faith among people who live there that their well-being is anyone’s priority.

Not long ago, Dr. Watkins began investigating the spread of the coronavirus in buildings of the New York City Housing Authority. With Karen Blondel, an environmental-justice advocate and longtime resident of the Red Hook Houses, she surveyed a representative sample of people living in three complexes in Brooklyn and found that a vast majority of respondents had not been tested even though more than a third knew someone who had died of Covid-19.

At one point, the city had workers knocking on doors to ask people if they wanted to be tested, but this, Ms. Blondel observed, served only to spread more fear. The people who showed up were strangers, and those on the other side of the door experienced a sense of invasion. They worried, too, about what might be done surreptitiously with their bodily submissions — what else would clinicians be looking for?

Dr. Watkins’s survey also included a question about a potential vaccine, another explosive subject. Nearly half in the group said they were not sure that they would take one if it were offered. A few people wondered if it might give you the disease. There was also an urban myth circulating that the vaccine would contain a tracker that allowed the government to check your movements.

“I thought it was insane at first, but then I kept hearing it,” Dr. Watkins told me. “The thing is, you could get control of the virus everywhere in the city, but if you can’t get it down in public housing, you’ve lost the war.”





No.6 article:
The End of a Beloved Delhi Institution

Readers never saw his name. But for decades, P.J. Anthony did as much for The Times’s bureau in India as anyone.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

NEW DELHI — For more than half a century, Parambaloth Joseph Anthony, a shrewd and sweet-natured man, served as The New York Times’s secret weapon in India.

As the New Delhi bureau manager from the mid-1960s until just a few years ago, Mr. Anthony, whom everyone called P.J., played as many roles as anyone at The Times. He was a bookkeeper, a translator, a guide, an archivist, a newshound who could track 10 stories at once, and a beloved and indispensable friend to many correspondents and their families.

One former correspondent even called him Kojak, after the 1970s TV private eye. The reason was that many years ago, after a bunch of people fell ill at a dinner party, P.J. took it upon himself to investigate. Sure enough, he solved the mystery.

After canvassing the neighborhood and chatting up staff, he learned that an envious servant had sprinkled gasoline over the chicken that was served that night, to sabotage the cook. P.J. shared his findings and gently suggested replacing the servant.

But now P.J.’s gone.

Last week, P.J. died at 82 from complications related to Covid-19.

P.J. was my entry point to India, just as he was for so many other correspondents going back 50 years. He was standing at the airport curb to scoop me and my family up after an exhausting 20-hour journey, with a shy smile on his face. As the bureau chief in New Delhi for the past three years, I saw him nearly every day and I can still hear his voice in my ear. It is hard for me to think that I will never see him again.

His job was running The Times’s small office in Connaught Place, in the heart of India’s capital, working closely with the bureau chiefs. (He tended to call the bureau chiefs “Doctor,” even when that was far from the case.) Bureau chiefs are in charge of the journalism and bureau managers are in charge of just about everything else — handling expenses, renewing visas, translating documents and in the case of India, decoding one of the most bewilderingly complex countries on Earth. P.J. loved every day of it.

Even into his 70s and 80s, he was often the first one in the office and you could always tell when he was approaching. The street dogs outside the bureau would go crazy, howling in delight.

Then a stooped figure, wearing thick glasses and sometimes a droopy trench coat, would emerge from the Delhi mist and a cloud of scrappy dogs would envelope him.

He always arrived with a bag of bones and pieces of meat. That was the first thing P.J. did every morning. He fed the strays.

He “defied time,” said John Burns, who served as Delhi bureau chief in the 1990s. “In the age of data retrieval, he held fervently to the gospel of the printed word, building a towering fortress around himself in the Delhi bureau of piled-up newspapers reaching back to the age of Nehru,” Mr. Burns remembered.

It was Jim Yardley, another bureau chief, who discovered, about eight years ago, after P.J. broke his hip, that P.J. had worked long past retirement age and that his retirement benefits exceeded his salary. Still, P.J. didn’t want to quit.

“I explained that retirement, of course, can be defined in many ways,” Mr. Yardley recalled.

Thus began a somewhat unorthodox arrangement that at first confounded the downstream bureau chiefs and other staff members and lasted until this March, when India imposed a strict lockdown that closed The Times’s bureau. Every day, P.J. volunteered to come to the office, where he continued to sit behind his towering fortress of newspapers and help out.

A devout Catholic, he brought in the most delectable box of chewy chocolate brownies every Christmas. Each night, before leaving the office, he would stand up, walk toward the door, press his palms together, and make a subtle bow.

Firm, formal, stoic, skeptical, fastidious, and most of all, fiercely loyal is how Delhi staff members described him.

On one occasion, after he got upset about something, he grumbled to Hari Kumar, a veteran reporter, “I gave my life to The New York Times.”

Suhasini Raj, another reporter in the Delhi bureau, once asked him if it ever made him sad when a bureau chief moved on, as they tend to do, every three or four years.

“You can’t get sentimental about it,” P.J. advised her. “So many bureau chiefs have come and gone that if I start crying at each one’s coming and going, I would be crying all my life.”





No.7 article:
Suddenly, These Law Clerks Were More Than Just Colleagues

Shampa Panda and Christopher Bryant were law clerks in the federal courthouse in Charleston, S.C., when they met. Four years later, they married outside that courthouse.

Shampa Panda and Christopher Bryant both were law clerks in the federal courthouse in Charleston, S.C., when they first met, in 2016, and her frequent visits to his office did not go unnoticed by their co-workers.

“I think Shampa’s a little sweet on you,” Mr. Bryant’s boss told him.

But Mr. Bryant, 35, who both graduated and received a law degree from Duke, was buttoned up and proper, while Ms. Panda, 28, said that her primary interest in him was as a colleague of color in an otherwise very white courthouse. She had graduated from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and received a law degree from the University of California, Berkeley.

“Here I was coming from Berkeley law, had a strange sounding foreign name and was not passing as anything,” Ms. Panda said, explaining that she saw Mr. Bryant as someone who could help her navigate the city. “My roommate’s dog walker mistook me for the housekeeper.”

Both were working on high-profile cases at the courthouse that involved race. (His was the trial of Dylann Roof, who killed nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston in 2015; hers was the prosecution of Michael Slager, a police officer in North Charleston, S.C., who killed an unarmed Black man, Water Scott, the same year.)

“It felt like all eyes were on us, waiting for us to make a mistake,” Ms. Panda said.

Several years later, in April 2019, both Mr. Bryant and Ms. Panda attended a lecture in Montgomery, Ala., following the publication of a book written by the judge Mr. Bryant had clerked for in Charleston, and the two saw each other in a new light.

They had remained in sporadic contact after the conclusion of their Charleston clerkships, but it wasn’t until they were alone together in Montgomery that they saw each other as more than colleagues.

“We had this realization that we’re outside the city of Charleston, where we had our guard up,” Mr. Bryant said. “She was incredibly witty and not quiet and not reserved and almost a different person. It was just us.”

“He was thoughtful and earnest and not doing anything for show, which was something that was surprising for me,” said Ms. Panda. 

That evening, the two shared their first kiss, and the following week, they had a formal first date that involved meeting at a Charleston bar, and then walking their bikes together from there to a restaurant.

“I fell in love that night,” said Ms. Panda, adding that falling in love was definitely not in her plan. “I thought, ‘I will do anything that it takes to give this relationship the shot it deserves.’”

She moved to Washington that fall to begin her dream job as a trial lawyer in the environment and natural resources division of the Justice Department. He moved to Washington, too. He is now a litigation associate in the political law group in Washington of Perkins Coie, a Seattle law firm.

On Oct. 17, the couple married in the garden outside the Charleston federal courthouse, with Judge Richard M. Gergel, for whom Mr. Bryant clerked, officiating, and Judge David C. Norton, for whom Ms. Panda had clerked, taking part. The livestream video of their event registered more than 400 views, but the ceremony included just the judges and the couple.

Another judge that had an effect on the course of their relationship was Supreme Court Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died in mid-September. Her death led to a sudden but sure conviction for Ms. Panda.

“I was watching Chris maneuver this giant treadmill out of our home,” said Ms. Panda, who will use the surname Panda-Bryant. She had bought the equipment thinking she would use it regularly while working from home. She hadn’t, so she was selling it. Mr. Bryant was very patiently looking up, without judgment, how to take apart the treadmill so that it would be easier for its new owners to get it out.

As she watched him, she said: “You know what? Let’s get married. Life is short.”





No.8 article:
In New York, Roommates Make a Comeback

It can be lonely living alone, especially during a pandemic, so some renters are finding new places with friends and sharing both the experience and the rent.

In New York, where high rents, small apartments and vibrant social lives were, until recently, hallmarks of life, roommates were seen by many as a financial necessity rather than a lifestyle choice: people with whom one ideally maintained a cordial, if arms-length relationship until circumstances allowed for the move to your own studio apartment.

But in a world of Zoom meet-ups and masked outdoor gatherings, the appeal of living alone has dimmed. Cut off from the social whirl of pre-coronavirus life, distanced from friends and colleagues and lacking even the impersonal companionship of a crowded restaurant or a group exercise class, a studio apartment no longer seems the prize it once did. The right roommate, though, can also be a co-worker, a workout buddy and a dining companion.

“Living alone and not being socialized, I was starting to feel like a hamster in a cage,” said Marc Jenkinson, 32, who this summer left his one-bedroom apartment in the West Village to move in with Peter Englert, 28, a friend from his L.B.G.T.Q. volleyball team who had been living in a Clinton Hill studio.

“After working from home for the first three months, I was like, ‘I just need to see someone on a regular basis — not planned or social distancing,’ ” said Mr. Englert, who works in digital advertising. “I feel so much less anxious. I’m not thinking, ‘When is the next time I’m going to see someone I know?’ ”

The friends moved into a two-bedroom, two-bath apartment by McCarren Park in Greenpoint this July, which not only eased their solitude, they also got a lot more space, including a private balcony, and significantly reduced their respective rents.

“It’s been really, really great. I’m surprised I didn’t live with someone sooner,” Mr. Jenkinson said. “During the day, we’re both working and in the evenings we’ll watch TV and hang out. Even the small interactions make such a big difference. When I’m taking a lunch break, I can come out and chat a little bit versus living in complete silence.”

Chelsea Hale, the Triplemint real estate agent who found the apartment for Mr. Jenkinson and Mr. Englert, said that she has seen several other clients leaving behind solo living situations to move in together. She has also seen a lot of desirable studios lingering on the market.

“I had a listing on the Upper East Side — an $1,800 studio in a doorman building, which would normally be very coveted, but this year was really hard to fill,” Ms. Hale said. “The apartments that are renting right now are one-bedrooms for couples or two-bedrooms for roommates.”

Indeed, while rental prices have dropped across all categories, studios have had some of the biggest decreases. The average price for a Manhattan studio dropped 13.8 percent, to $2,456, in September 2020 from the same month last year, according to a market report from Douglas Elliman. Manhattan two-bedrooms, on the other hand, were down 4.2 percent year-over-year, with an average rent of $4,817.

The desire for roommate camaraderie is such that Melinda Sicari, an associate broker with Douglas Elliman, has not only seen a lot of people moving from studios into two-bedroom shares, but also high demand for five- and six-bedroom apartments with prices that pencil out, per room, to roughly the same as smaller, traditionally more popular shares.

“I’ve been surprised by the traffic on larger apartments,” she said. “Being alone for months, not going into an office, people got really lonely.”

This summer, Chris Hattar and five roommates moved into a six-bedroom financial district share, one of Ms. Sicari’s listings.

Before the pandemic, Mr. Hattar, 24, had been living with two of the same roommates in a Murray Hill flex two-bedroom, with a third bedroom created from a partial wall in the living room. Three other friends from Williams College lived upstairs in a similar setup. The friends from the two apartments would often socialize on weekends, but after coronavirus, neither half-sized living room was an ideal venue for socializing or working.

By moving together into an $11,000-a-month six-bedroom in the financial district, everyone doubled the size of their daily social circle, got an actual bedroom, reduced their rent slightly and gained a big, loft-style living and dining room where they can watch the latest Netflix show or sports.

“It feels reminiscent of old times. We can socialize and not be isolated,” said Mr. Hattar. During the day, he said, “there’s an office camaraderie” with roommates working side-by-side in the open living/dining room and going out to pick up lunch together.

There is one downside, however: conversation can occasionally get in the way of work. “Because we’re all friends, someone will make a comment and we’ll get rolling and 30 minutes will go by,” he said.

Although many people in their 20s left the city to stay with family at the start of the pandemic, a lot of them have since decided to return. And what they want, are spacious apartments to share with friends, according to Robert Morgenstern, the founder and principal at Canvas Property Group, a New York-based real estate services firm.

“There are a lot of people who have great relationships with their parents and are happy at home, but that’s not universal,” Mr. Morgenstern said. “After four or five months, a lot of people were done. They’d rather sign a lease with friends in the city than work from home in isolation at their parents’ house.”

And, given that so much social life in the coming months will be apartment-based, people not only want spaces suitable for cooking, working and hanging out in, but roommates they actually want to do all those things with.

“People are posting listings that say, ‘I no longer want to live with strangers. I want to live with friends or roommates who will become my friends,’ ” said Stephanie Diamond, the founder of Listings Project, a weekly newsletter of real estate and other opportunities. “People are looking for spontaneity. They don’t want to have to text someone and set up a time to get together. They want someone who can just join them in the living room.”

Before coronavirus, Mike Hurowitz, a 30-year-old tech recruiter, was perfectly happy living with three roommates in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where he paid $1,000 a month. “I’d found the spot on Craigslist and in normal times it was all that I needed,” he said. “It was fine.”

But despite having no issues with his roommates, “the stress of the world collapsing, and living with people I wasn’t particularly close to was hard.” When the opportunity came up to live with a friend in a three-bedroom in Crown Heights, he hesitated — rent was $250 more a month — but moving in turned out to be a great decision.

He was furloughed from his job for three months and during that time broke his collarbone in a bike accident; his life, which had been largely apartment-based before, became even more so. Living with a good friend made all the difference. (Their third roommate has spent much of the pandemic out of town.)

“Now we spend an obscene amount of time together,” he said. “I went from taking walks alone to always having someone to talk to. We tell each other stuff that’s roommate privilege — meaning it can’t leave the apartment. We’ve gotten way closer; she’s one of my best friends.”

And while the end of the pandemic, whenever and however it comes, may lead to a surge in solo living, at least some have become converts.

Estefania Martinez-Aleman, 22, spent the last four years in a Midtown Manhattan one-bedroom that her parents rented for her when she was a freshman at Fordham University; they wanted to be able to stay with her when they visited from Miami.

“I didn’t really choose to live alone,” Ms. Martinez-Aleman said. But she didn’t mind it, either. She had a very active social life and friends would often stay over at her place if they were hanging out in Manhattan.

But after she and a college friend went to her parents’ house for spring break — a trip that stretched to months because of the coronavirus — they decided to move into a two-bedroom in Stuyvesant Heights, Brooklyn, together.

“It’s definitely been comforting living together during the coronavirus,” said Ms. Martinez-Aleman, adding that it has also been amazing for her health. “Before, I would order in, order in. Now, I have a buddy, we go to the supermarket together, pick out what we want to eat for the week and cook healthy meals.”

But what she really loves about living with a friend is that while there’s always someone around whose company she enjoys, she never feels pressured to hang out.

“Before, whenever I was with friends, I felt like I had to entertain, like we’d have these insane dinners,” Ms. Martinez-Aleman said. “Now, I don’t feel that. I’m just living my life. We can have a lemonade together and talk again in four hours.”





No.9 article:
It’s Election Day. Do You Know How Your Matches Are Voting?

Singles are putting their political affiliations front and center on the apps.

Rebecca Cibbarelli, 23, was texting with a man on Hinge while Senator Kamala Harris and Vice President Mike Pence debated on her TV screen in early October. When she told her match what she was watching, he said he didn’t know who either of the people in the debate were, or which political office they were running for.

“We’ve been in a global pandemic for eight months, and there’s been so much social and political change,” said Ms. Cibbarelli, a mental health worker in Princeton Junction, N.J. “How have you not even taken interest in it when you’re stuck in the house? I was working 60 hours a week, I started school and I’m still keeping up.” Suffice it to say, things didn’t work out.

In a year marked by partisan debates over the coronavirus pandemic, widespread protests for Black Lives Matter and a presidential election, politics is reaching deep into the lives of Americans, affecting not only their families, schools, taxes and health care but also their dating habits.

Some singles want to know if their potential matches are civically engaged, even on a basic level. Others see their dates’ politics as  indicators of compatibility.

A few daters expressed frustration about people who “virtue signal” — add phrases like Black Lives Matter to their profiles to show support for a cause — but do not seem to engage with the issues beyond their bios.

“You ask if they were at a protest, and it turns out that they weren’t or they give some sappy excuse for not being there,” said Jorge Clavo Abbass, 23, a graduate student and instructor at the Ohio State University.

In a survey, the dating app Bumble found that out of 50 factors women considered in a potential match, politics ranked ninth. (It came in behind smoking habits, family plans, life goals and relationship intent.) About 33 to 35 percent of all users said the pandemic and the Black Lives Matter movement have made them care more about the political views of their potential match, said Jemma Ahmed, Bumble’s head of insights.

“The conversations we have aren’t just about how our days are going anymore. They’re about unavoidable topics, like police brutality,” said Ashley Mack, 27, an aesthetician and surgery consultant in Sarasota, Fla.

Ms. Mack said that inaction in the face of this summer’s protests led her to end some of her platonic relationships. She also reassessed the qualities she looks for in a potential partner. “I’m more aware of things that are deal breakers for me and what I’ll tolerate,” Ms. Mack said. “You think long-term. What would they instill in your kid?”

On OkCupid, a dating site known for lengthy questionnaires that help people pin down potential partners, politics has become the most popular category. More than 1.2 million people who use OkCupid said they prefer to date people who share their political views. Women were more likely to say so than men. The platform recently began offering users a “voter badge,” a digital equivalent of an “I Voted” sticker.

People who have been out of the dating pool for a while may see this as a sea change. “For my generation and most generations before me, it was, ‘Do not talk politics until you’re down the path of a relationship,’” said Melissa Hobley, 40, OkCupid’s chief marketing officer. “Now it’s ‘I don’t even want to see you in my lineup of potential people to chat with if your politics on certain issues don’t align with mine, or if you are not a voter.’”

When Richard Schmitz, 31, a founder of a marketing agency, moved from New York to Scottsdale, Ariz., he said he was screened by a match. “I had a Hinge date who texted me, ‘Good morning, I think we need to get this out of the way,’” he said. She told him that most of her beliefs are very conservative, that she plans to vote for President Trump, and that if her preference offends him, it is best for them not to meet.

Mr. Schmitz was pleasantly surprised. “In New York, it’s very normal and common to see a girl who has ‘If you vote Trump swipe left. Liberals only,’” he said. In Manhattan, he found his dating pool limited and turned to Filter Off, a platform that offers virtual speed dating sessions for people with specific interests, like veganism, the ketogenic diet or a political party. After his struggles in New York City, he said the text he received in Scottsdale was “refreshing.”

Living in New York, Pat Cassidy, 27, who works in investment banking, has found that a common deal breaker for potential dates is not necessarily his conservatism but whether he helped elect the current president. “The screening question is, ‘Did you vote for Trump or are you a Trump supporter?” he said.

Mr. Cassidy finds himself having to explain his politics, which are “right of center.” “Looking back five years, I do not know if I would have tried to explain myself that much pre-Trump,” he said. “I think the political climate generally has made me feel the need to be a bit more nuanced or tactical about how I position myself.”

As a proud Trump voter in New York City, Sam Baron, 31, who works in tech development, said he does not care about his dates’ politics, but they seem to care about his. “I dated a liberal once,” he said. “When she saw online that I loved Trump, she went way off the deep end on me.”

Recently, Jessica Zimmerman, 42, who owns a group practice for mental health counseling, has been rejecting men who do not see eye-to-eye with her on certain issues, like the separation of migrant children from their families at the U.S. border.

“I’m a single mom and a business owner,” Ms. Zimmerman said. “I’m busy, and I hold my time somewhat sacred. I wouldn’t go on a date with someone who thinks that’s a policy we should uphold.”

Her political views have made dating a challenge in Indiana, a state Mr. Trump won easily in 2016. “I’m probably the minority where I live,” Ms. Zimmerman said. “In the past it didn’t profoundly affect dating. But the extreme divisiveness and the extreme policies have really brought a spotlight on politics.”

Janine Owens, 38, who lives near Philadelphia and works in finance, will not categorically refuse to date someone based on their politics; though she is a registered Democrat, she does not always agree with the party’s policies. But early on, she will inquire how engaged her date is in local and national politics.

“Growing up, there were those unwritten rules of a first date,” she said. “Years ago I probably wouldn’t have brought up politics. Now, we’re definitely bringing it up in the first few weeks of dating.”

The pandemic, with its various pressures and the blue-versus-red debate around its management, has only sharpened existing political divisions.

“The pandemic has really impacted the way I date,” said Ann Nguyen, 25, who works in communications in Washington, D.C. “I’ve spent more time just talking to people.”

And what else is there to talk about? As Sarah Bettman, 31, who works in biotech in Santa Monica, Calif., put it, the pandemic “has to come up to a certain extent. When you’re talking about your day-to-day and your perspective on it, the politics and how it’s handled are an inevitable part of the conversation.”

Those conversations can make or break an early-stages relationship. “Dating during Covid, I’m putting myself at risk,” Ms. Cibbarelli said. “If we’re not in agreement to some extent, I’m not interested in breathing your air.”

For Elly Shariat, 38, a publicist in D.C. whose father and sister work at a hospital, the coronavirus has been a lightning rod in dating. “If I match with you and I see that you’re posting about attending an anti-mask rally, or you post something about masks being harmful and saying that we need to open up sports, that’s not just wrong and factually inaccurate,” Ms. Shariat said. “It’s a sign that someone is selfish. That lets me know that you won’t be giving in our relationship.”

Ms. Shariat, who did not take the role of politics in her dating life seriously before 2016, said she now leads with her values in her online profiles. “I’ve worked on Capitol Hill,” her bio reads. “I believe Black Lives Matter. I believe Covid-19 is real. And if you disagree with any of those we’re not a good match.”

She said some men have taken that as an invitation to troll her. “This guy told me that my own father and sister were lying to me about cases in the hospital,” Ms. Shariat said. “He said they must be getting money from big pharma.” When she told him that she did not think they were a good fit, he responded that she would never find love. Recently Ms. Shariat has been asking herself: “Do I take a pause until after this election? Do I move to another country to date?”

Nonetheless, she has no intention of hiding her opinions, nor of compromising her views. “I’m not necessarily looking for someone who mimics my beliefs,” she said. “But if you’re not actively speaking out against things going wrong and not working to make this world better, I don’t even want to have a drink with you.”





No.10 article:
Inside One Brooklyn Restaurant’s Desperate Fight to Survive the Pandemic

Half of New York City’s 24,000 restaurants could go out of business. Gertie is fighting to avoid becoming one of them.

On the second Saturday in March, the owners of Gertie, a Jewish-American luncheonette in Brooklyn, finalized a last step in the makeover of their year-old restaurant. They hired a new sous chef, an up-and-comer who had landed hours before on a one-way flight from Detroit.

By dinnertime, though, the restaurant was unraveling.

After spreading silently for weeks, the coronavirus had infected hundreds of people in New York and cast an eerie emptiness over the city and inside the restaurant, which had planned to debut a new menu. Instead, by the end of dinner service that Sunday, the owners pulled aside nearly all 25 employees and told them they were being let go.

Seven months later, Gertie is still standing, if barely, a battered symbol of an industry wrecked by a sweeping recession. Gertie is a shell of its former self — tables have been pushed aside in the darkened dining room, the espresso machine turned off, a case once filled with baked goods gathers dust — as the handful of remaining employees scrambles to reinvent itself on a nearly weekly basis.

The restaurant, located in Williamsburg, is now several ventures collectively trying to keep it afloat: a soup kitchen in the mornings, preparing meals for the hungry; an outdoor restaurant three nights a week; and a get-out-the-vote operation on Thursdays, with a phone bank on the patio and postcards diners are asked to send to undecided voters.

A year ago, Gertie made about $30,000 a week, packing dozens of diners at a time inside its bright, cavernous dining room. During the worst days of the pandemic, it made $50 selling coffee and pastries on some mornings, not enough to pay the barista and baker. Sales slowly climbed through late summer to about $1,000 per day.

The owners worry what the colder weather will bring.

“I feel like we have opened six restaurants just in the past seven months,” Flip Biddelman, 33, the general manager and co-owner, said after unfurling canvas awnings outside and stretching them over the sidewalk. “It’s just been quite taxing, emotionally and physically.”

“How long can this go on?” he added.

The pandemic has spared almost no business in New York. Some have thrived, like liquor stores. But no industry has been clobbered like restaurants and bars, a multibillion-dollar lifeblood that gives the city vibrancy and diversity, employs hundreds of thousands of people, including many immigrants, and attracts millions of tourists every year.

From Michelin-starred fine dining to hole-in-the-wall restaurants, the industry brings in about $46 billion annually in sales and pays out about $10 billion in wages to employees, according to the state.

Today, it is a major feat for a restaurant simply to stay open. There is no definitive count of how many restaurants have gone out of business, but the number is thought to be in the thousands.

At the height of the pandemic last spring, more than 200,000 restaurant workers were out of work, according to the state comptroller. Some have been rehired, but few are working the same number of hours. Restaurants are open for indoor dining, but at a 25 percent capacity limit.

By some estimates, the continuing devastation could eventually topple up to half of the city’s 24,000 restaurants. 

The economics of operating a restaurant in New York were never favorable, but the pandemic exposed just how precarious the business was. Restaurants, even those far from Manhattan’s upscale precincts, can pay more than $100,000 a year in rent and tens of thousands on other bills, including insurance policies that have provided no assistance during the pandemic.

Many restaurants have blamed their landlords for not reducing their rent. But landlords say they are suffering, too, unable to pay their own bills because tenants cannot pay full rent.

Since the pandemic, Gertie’s landlord has cut its base rent by 50 percent, down to $5,000 a month, and offered to extend the discount, which included a separate increase in rent payments based on Gertie’s percentage of sales, for another 16 months. Nate Adler, who started Gertie with Mr. Biddelman, accepted the offer despite concerns that business will not substantially improve for months.

“These restaurants were built to house people, to comfort people, to feed people in a really beautiful environment that had tons of thought, time and money put into it,” Mr. Adler, 31, said. “Every restaurant has become a shell of a restaurant, like nothing is noticeable inside. Nothing is being used the way that it’s supposed to be used or the way that it was initially intended, and that’s just a hard pill to swallow.”

Gertie is limping along without most of its employees. About 9 of its 25 workers have returned, some of whom are also collecting unemployment benefits because they work so few hours. Several former employees declined to return, citing health concerns, while others moved to another state and started a new job.

Gertie opened in February 2019 on the corner of Marcy Avenue and Grand Street, a quiet intersection, offering updated Jewish-American deli food. Mr. Adler modeled Gertie, which was named for his maternal grandmother, after popular Los Angeles restaurants that offer counter service and a mix of bakery, deli and all-day hangout.

Mr. Adler and Mr. Biddelman have extensive backgrounds in some of the city’s most respected restaurant groups. Mr. Adler worked for Union Square Hospitality Group, the food service empire owned by Danny Meyer, where Mr. Biddelman had also worked. They also worked together at another restaurant started by Mr. Adler, Huertas, in Manhattan.

Gertie, however, did not take off in the way that the owners had hoped. Breakfast, lunch and weekend brunch did well, selling dishes like smoked whitefish salad, Reuben sandwiches with sauerkraut and smoked salmon with cream cheese on bialys.

But dinner service, which was supposed to be the star meal with entrees like lamb with horseradish sauce, whole fish with tartar sauce and whole rotisserie duck, never attracted a robust crowd.

The owners fiddled with the concept. They turned the basement into an event space. They booked groups with D.J.s and brought in visiting chefs for pop-up events. Then in February, they hired a new executive chef, Mike Cain, 35, who had worked at a Mediterranean restaurant on the Brooklyn waterfront.

But the virus upended their planning. On the first weekend in March, more than 300 people ate at Gertie for brunch both days. The next weekend, only a few dozen people showed up each day.

“I could see people around me sweating when people weren’t coming in,” said Eleanor Bellamy, 27, a former server.

On March 15, a Sunday, the city ordered all bars and restaurants to close except for delivery and pickup. Gertie had no delivery or takeout operation. After her shift that night, Ms. Bellamy opened an email from the restaurant announcing that most of the staff had been let go.

Like many people, Ms. Bellamy initially believed the disruption would be temporary and decided to go to Durham, N.C., her hometown. She packed light — some pants and shirts in a small bag.

In August, Ms. Bellamy returned to the city — to gather all her belongings for a permanent move to North Carolina, where she got a job at a fabric and wallpaper company.

“I stayed here longer and longer and it almost felt like I had started a brand-new life,” Ms. Bellamy said. “It was the right choice for me.”

Jovanni Luna’s phone lit up with the same email Ms. Bellamy got. Just six days before, Mr. Luna, a bartender at Gertie, had been laid off from a part-time server position at another restaurant.

“In the hospitality industry, it’s not always the best job, but it’s something that always felt very secure in New York,” said Mr. Luna, 31, who has been rehired at Gertie, but is collecting unemployment benefits because he’s working so few shifts.

That night, Mr. Cain found comfort at the Sparrow Tavern, a favorite bar near his home in Astoria, Queens, with fellow chefs facing the same dire future.

“It was kind of nice to be able to see each other and crack jokes a little bit,” Mr. Cain said.

The following week, Mr. Cain, Mr. Adler and Mr. Biddelman mapped out a new plan. Gertie started offering takeout and delivery, and the two partners looked for nonprofit opportunities to use the restaurant to help frontline workers.

Delivery and takeout proved a dead end. There were just a handful of orders, and it was hard to know how much food to keep in stock without spoiling.

“We needed to double-down on the nonprofit stuff, or we needed to say, ‘Screw it, we’re out,&#x27;” said Mr. Adler, using a four-letter expletive.

Mr. Adler and his partner, Mr. Biddelman, connected with the LEE Initiative, a foundation in Louisville, Ky., that became a restaurant-relief effort in the early days of the pandemic. With the foundation’s help, Gertie’s kitchen came to life, hiring back four workers, as the staff handed out hundreds of boxed meals a day.

The meal program ended after only a few weeks. The staff was exhausted and worried that they were at risk of catching the virus. The restaurant shut down for at least two weeks.

“Our lives were essentially: Wake up, worry about getting Covid and go to work and feed all these people who are also worried about getting Covid, come home, eat dinner and repeat,” Mr. Adler said.

Then in May the restaurant partnered with City Harvest, a nonprofit that distributes food to the hungry, and the group Rethink Food in another meals program. Rethink Food provides funding to Gertie for food, $5 per meal, and City Harvest picks up the meals four days a week.

In July, the restaurant expanded outside for outdoor dining and spent thousands of dollars constructing a deck for tables and chairs. But sales never really took off — about $2,300 per day at its height, though a couple of weekend days have brought in up to $5,000.

Though restaurants were allowed to bring diners back indoors in late September at 25 percent capacity, Gertie has not reopened indoors because of concerns that both diners and staff could get sick.

For now, Gertie is trying to get by with its various initiatives.

One recent morning, two cooks crammed into a tiny kitchen in the restaurant’s basement preparing meals for the food program. Mounds of roasted new potatoes were piled high in a plastic bin, while dozens of roasted pork loins were stacked nearby, waiting to be sliced for individual meals.

That afternoon, the staff began preparing for another outdoor event, the weekly political get-together on Thursday nights as a way to drum up business and promote Democratic candidates.

The crew tasted the dishes on the night’s menu: lemongrass chicken over scallion rice and a chicken banh-mi prepared by Di An Di, a Vietnamese restaurant. Gertie brings in guest chefs on Thursdays to help them and to build excitement for the night’s event.

“It’s eye-opening when you’ve spent this much time building a space and you want to see it through and you always want to leave a place better than you found it,” Mr. Biddelman said. “I don’t know if it’s possible in this situation.”





No.11 article:
In This Strange Election Year, Foreign Embassies Find Little Access to Democrats

The Biden campaign, according to advisers, is concerned over possible perception of foreign meddling in the election — or any comparison to Russian interference on President Trump’s behalf in 2016.

WASHINGTON — Last July, as Joseph R. Biden Jr. was about to accept the Democratic nomination for president, the British ambassador to Washington invited a few of the former vice president’s close friends and advisers to an intimate dinner.

Among those who attended, according to one of the guests, was Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, who now holds Mr. Biden’s seat in the Senate. Others included Senator Tim Kaine, the Virginia Democrat and 2016 vice-presidential nominee, and Terry McAuliffe, the former Virginia governor and Democratic Party chairman.

In years past, the British Embassy would have had a direct line to officials in both presidential campaigns — Democrat and Republican — to coax information about the policies and priorities of the next American leader, which the ambassador would have cabled back to the Foreign Office in London.

But in this strangest of campaign years — disrupted by a pandemic and haunted by fears of foreign influence — such privileged access to the Democrats has been cut off. The ambassador, Karen Pierce, has had to content herself with cultivating people one step removed from Mr. Biden’s inner circle.

Mr. Biden’s campaign, concerned over any possible perception of foreign meddling in the presidential election — or any comparison to Russian interference on President Trump’s behalf in 2016 — has ordered its high command to refuse nearly all conversations with foreign officials or members of Washington’s diplomatic corps, campaign officials said.

That has left the emissaries along Washington’s Embassy Row to woo Mr. Biden’s informal and unpaid political advisers, or lawmakers who are close to him, for any crumb of information that might be spilled during the gossip swapping that is the lubricant of their lavish parties and quiet soirees.

“During any campaign in normal times, any embassy that considers itself worth its salary is trying to get to know as many people as possible,” Ambassador Pierce said in an interview this week. “That would be the same whether it’s the Republican or Democratic candidates.”

The night before the July dinner, for example, the embassy had hosted a similar gathering with prominent Republicans, according to a person familiar with the event.

For decades, Britain and other allies used to dispatch junior diplomats to travel with the Democratic and Republican campaigns, where they could pick up policy insights and forge ties with future White House advisers.

For some foreign officials, who spent the past four years assiduously cultivating Mr. Trump, his family and his senior aides, the prospect of a Biden victory is forcing a sudden shift in focus.

“A lot of these foreign governments, especially those in the Middle East that thought Trump was going to win again, are panicking now that reality is setting in,” said Mr. McAuliffe, who has known Mr. Biden for 40 years. “So they’re scrambling to meet with anybody they can that has a connection to Democrats.”

Diplomats have invited Mr. Biden’s friends and associates to cocktail receptions and pool parties. Many have tried to pick up insights by attending public appearances by his paid campaign officials, like a Chamber of Commerce video chat last month that featured his chief foreign policy adviser, Antony J. Blinken, who served as deputy secretary of state during the Obama administration.

The British Embassy also has reached out to experts with ties to Mr. Biden by inviting them to take part in video calls on policy issues, such as climate change, the future of artificial intelligence, or women, peace and security.

While the Biden campaign has only a handful of paid foreign policy advisers, there are dozens of people who do not have a formal role and volunteer their assistance and ideas. The majority of them have irregular contacts with Mr. Biden’s formal advisers and do not feel as bound to avoid embassies and other foreign officials.

In strikingly similar statements, representatives of Mr. Coons and Mr. Kaine said the senators regularly meet with ambassadors as part of their duties as members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

“The dinner with the ambassador for the U.K. was one of many such meetings over the past eight years,” said Katie Stuntz, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kaine. Also at the dinner was John Podesta, who was chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign.

A foreign official from one allied country said that the contacts have been strictly limited to people who make clear, at the outset, that they do not represent Mr. Biden or speak for his campaign.

Still, the limitations have not stopped some envoys from trying to send a message to Mr. Biden.

Yousef Al Otaiba, the United Arab Emirates’ ambassador to Washington since 2008, has been telling Democrats in the capital that his country’s decision to establish diplomatic relations with Israel was not a coup for Mr. Trump but something they “took off the table” for Mr. Biden, according to senior Democrats who have spoken with him.

Being held at arm’s length has provoked complaints among some foreign officials who are irked at being treated as suspiciously as diplomats from Russia or China. Others have been bewildered as to why their longtime contacts in Washington’s Democratic circles have suddenly gone cold.

Last summer, a senior official who was part of a high-level delegation from a Middle Eastern country asked for a meeting with Mr. Blinken. The request, which was shared with The New York Times, stated that Mr. Blinken and the senior official “are friends on a personal level.”

The response came several hours later. “Unfortunately, Tony is prohibited from engaging with foreign officials, including diplomats, through the conclusion of the election in November,” it said.

Still, at a time when even unsubstantiated allegations about the foreign dealings of Mr. Biden’s son, Hunter, quickly become campaign fodder, most envoys understand the ethics line that has been drawn.

At the Embassy of Qatar, officials have played host to Democrats close to Mr. Biden who now are working at think tanks or other private-sector jobs in Washington’s national security establishment, for discussions on foreign and domestic policy. Most of the larger events are held at either the embassy or the ambassador’s residence, with its lush gardens and elaborate display of roses, in suburban Virginia.

One senior Qatari official said the larger dinners and round-table discussions almost always include a mix of Democrats and Republicans. Qatar also hosted a dinner for Democratic policy advisers at think tanks last spring, and smaller gatherings are often held at the homes of other Qatari diplomats.

But the Qatari official said embassy officials try to avoid contacting Mr. Biden’s team for what he described as ethical reasons.

Even informal advisers to Mr. Biden who have steered clear of the embassies’ outreach acknowledge that the campaign’s edict against foreign contacts does not stop the usual networking of Washington.

“Any diplomat would want to understand the dynamic of who is in power and who is out of power — that’s their job,” said Lee A. Feinstein, a former diplomat and adviser to Democratic presidential campaigns who is now dean of the Hamilton-Lugar School of International Studies at Indiana University.

Foreign officials who have failed to heed what George P. Shultz, who was Ronald Reagan’s secretary of state, referred to as “garden diplomacy” may now find themselves scrambling to sow contacts with Democrats after four years of trying to decode the Trump administration’s policies, Mr. Feinstein said.

“You plant the seeds and harvest them,” he added. “That’s a much better position to be in, rather than pulling an all-nighter.”





No.12 article:
How Will I Ever Look at America the Same Way Again?

What I lost in the Trump years was a kind of innocence.

It’s always assumed that those of us who felt certain of Hillary Clinton’s victory in 2016 were putting too much trust in polls.

I was putting too much trust in Americans.

I’d seen us err. I’d watched us stray. Still I didn’t think that enough of us would indulge a would-be leader as proudly hateful, patently fraudulent and flamboyantly dishonest as Donald Trump.

We had episodes of ugliness, but this? No way. We were better than Trump.

Except, it turned out, we weren’t.

Never mind that the Russians gave him a boost. Or that he lost the popular vote. Some 46 percent of the Americans who cast ballots for president in 2016 picked him, and as he moved into the White House and proceeded to soil it, most of those Americans stood by him solidly enough that Republicans in Congress didn’t dare to cross him and in fact went to great, conscience-immolating lengths to prop him up. These lawmakers weren’t swooning for a demagogue. They were reading the populace.

And it was a populace I didn’t recognize, or at least didn’t want to.

What has Trump’s presidency taken from us? I’m reasonably sure that many Americans feel the same loss that I do, and I’m struggling to assign just one word to it.

Innocence? Optimism? Faith? Go to the place on the Venn diagram where those states of mind overlap. That’s the piece of me now missing when I look at this beloved country of mine.

Trump snuffed out my confidence, flickering but real, that we could go only so low and forgive only so much. With him we went lower — or at least a damningly large percentage of us did. In him we forgave florid cruelty, overt racism, rampant corruption, exultant indecency, the coddling of murderous despots, the alienation of true friends, the alienation of truth itself, the disparagement of invaluable institutions, the degradation of essential democratic traditions.

He played Russian roulette with Americans’ lives. He played Russian roulette with his own aides’ lives. In a sane and civil country, of the kind I long thought I lived in, his favorability ratings would have fallen to negative integers, a mathematical impossibility but a moral imperative. In this one, they never changed all that much.

Polls from mid-October showed that about 44 percent of voters approved of Trump’s job performance — and this was after he’d concealed aspects of his coronavirus infection from the public, shrugged off the larger meaning of it, established the White House as its own superspreader environment and cavalierly marched on.

Forty-four percent. Who in God’s name are we?

I’m not forgetting pre-Trump American history. I’m not erasing hundreds of years of slavery, the internment of Japanese Americans, the many kinds of discrimination that have flourished in my own lifetime, all the elections in which we Americans made stupid choices and all the presidents who did “un-American” things. We’re a grossly imperfect country, our behavior at frequent odds with our ideals.

But for every abomination, I could name a moment of grace. For many of our sins, stabs at atonement. We demonstrated a yearning to correct our mistakes and, I think, a tropism toward goodness. On balance we were open, generous. When I traveled abroad, people from other countries routinely complimented Americans for that. They experienced us as arrogant, but also as special.

Now they just pity us.

How much of this can we pin on Trump? Not as much as we try to. And oh, how we’ve tried. This obsession of the news media and his detractors with every last eccentricity and inanity isn’t just about keeping a complete record, I’ve come to realize. It’s also a deflection, an evasion: If he gets the whole of the stage, then Americans’ complicity and collaboration are shoved into the wings.

And the freakier we make him out to be, the less emblematic he is. The more he becomes a random, isolated event. We emphasized what a vanquishable opponent Hillary Clinton was because that diminished the significance of the vanquishing and the vanquisher. We spoke of a perfect storm of circumstances that led to his election as a way of disowning the weather.

We cheered on Robert Mueller’s investigation not just because it might hold Trump and his wretched accomplices to account but also because it might explain him away, proving that he reached the White House by cheating, not because he was what nearly half of the country decided that they wanted.

We tried to make him a one-and-done one-off. But deep into his presidency, when his execrable character had been fully exposed, his Fox News cheerleaders continued to draw huge audiences for their sycophantic panegyrics.

Trump himself continued to attract big crowds to his rallies, like the one in Greenville, N.C., in July 2019, when he pressed his attack on four Democratic congresswomen of color, including Representative Ilhan Omar, who immigrated from Somalia. Egged on by him, his audience chanted: “Send her back! Send her back!” He stopped speaking to give those words room, and he soaked them in.

Or what about the recent rally in Muskegon, Mich., where he freshly assailed the state’s governor, Gretchen Whitmer, despite the fact that his obsessive denunciations of her had possibly been a factor in an alleged plot by 14 men to kidnap her? “Lock her up!” many of the attendees bellowed, to Trump’s obvious amusement.

Again, how has his approval rating not fallen to negative integers?

I’m not saying that support for him is spun entirely of malice or bias. Keen economic anxiety and profound political estrangement are why many voters turned to him, as my Times colleague Farah Stockman explained especially well in a recent editorial that was set in America’s disheartened heartland. “Even false hope,” she noted, “is a form of hope, perhaps the most ubiquitous kind.”

The headline on the article was “Why They Loved Him.” But why haven’t more of them stopped loving him? And how did so many Americans beyond that group fall so hard for him, thrilling to his recklessness, applauding his divisiveness, indulging his unscrupulousness? He tapped into more cynicism and nihilism than this land of boundless tomorrows was supposed to contain.

He tapped into more conspiratorialism, too. And I do mean “tapped.” Trump didn’t draw out anything that wasn’t already there, burbling beneath the surface.

He didn’t sire white supremacists. He didn’t script the dark fantasies of QAnon. He didn’t create all the Americans who rebelled against protective masks and mocked those who wore them, a selfish mind-set that helps explain our tragic lot. It just flourished under him.

And it will almost certainly survive him. The foul spirit of these past five years — I’m including his hateful campaign — has been both pervasive and strangely proud. That’s what makes it different. That’s what makes it so chilling.

I could be overreacting. Maybe, just ahead, there will be moments of grace, enough of them to redeem us. Maybe I’ll look up on or after Nov. 3 and see that Biden has won North Carolina, has won Michigan, has won every closely contested state and the presidency in a landslide. Maybe I’ll have to eat my words.

Please, my fellow Americans, feed me my words. I’d relish that meal.





No.13 article:
How Are Americans Catching the Virus? Increasingly, ‘They Have No Idea’

New outbreaks used to be traced back to crowded factories and rowdy bars. But now, the virus is so widespread not even health officials are able to keep up.

When the coronavirus first erupted in Sioux Falls, S.D., in the spring, Mayor Paul TenHaken arrived at work each morning with a clear mission: Stop the outbreak at the pork plant. Hundreds of employees, chopping meat shoulder to shoulder, had gotten sick in what was then the largest virus cluster in the United States.

That outbreak was extinguished months ago, and these days, when he heads into City Hall, the situation is far more nebulous. The virus has spread all over town.

“You can swing a cat and hit someone who has got it,” said Mr. TenHaken, who had to reschedule his own meetings to Zoom this past week after his assistant tested positive for the virus.

As the coronavirus soars across the country, charting a single-day record of 99,155 new cases on Friday and surpassing nine million cases nationwide, tracing the path of the pandemic in the United States is no longer simply challenging. It has become nearly impossible.

Gone are the days when Americans could easily understand the virus by tracking rising case numbers back to discrete sources — the crowded factory, the troubled nursing home, the rowdy bar. Now, there are so many cases, in so many places, that many people are coming to a frightening conclusion: They have no idea where the virus is spreading.

“It’s just kind of everywhere,” said Crystal Watson, a senior scholar at the Center for Health Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, who estimated that tracing coronavirus cases becomes difficult once the virus spreads to more than 10 cases per 100,000 people a day.

In some of the hardest-hit spots in the United States, the virus is spreading at 10 to 20 times that rate, and even health officials have all but given up trying to figure out who is giving the virus to whom.

There have been periods earlier in the pandemic when infections spread beyond large, well-understood clusters in prisons, business meetings and dinner parties, tearing through communities in ways that were nearly impossible to keep track of. But for the most part, that experience was isolated to hard-hit places like New York City in the spring and portions of the Sun Belt in the summer.

This time, the diffuse, chaotic spread is happening in many places at once. Infections are rising in 41 states, the country is recording an average of more than 79,000 new cases each day, and more Americans say they feel left to do their own lonely detective work.

“I was so careful,” said Denny Taylor, 45, who said he had taken exacting precautions — wearing a mask, getting groceries delivered — before he became the first in his family and among his co-workers to test positive for the virus. Lying in a hospital bed in Omaha this past week, he said he still had no idea where he caught it.

Uncovering the path of transmission from person to person, known as contact tracing, is seen as a key tool for containing the spread of the coronavirus. Within a day or two of testing positive, residents in many communities can expect to get a phone call from a trained contact tracer, who conducts a detailed interview before beginning the painstaking process of tracking down each new person who may have been exposed.

“We were pretty successful and we were very proud of how the case numbers went down,” said Dr. Sehyo Yune, who supervised a team of contact tracers in Massachusetts this spring. It was one of several strategies that helped tamp down earlier outbreaks in places like Massachusetts, New York and Washington, D.C.

But as cases skyrocket again in many states, many health officials have conceded that interviewing patients and dutifully calling each contact will not be enough to slow the outbreak. “Contact tracing is not going to save us,” said Dr. Ogechika Alozie, chief medical officer at Del Sol Medical Center in El Paso, where hospitalizations in the county have soared by more than 400 percent and officials issued a new order for residents to stay at home.

The problem, of course, is that failing to fully track the virus makes it much harder to get a sense of where the virus is flourishing, and how to get ahead of new outbreaks. But once an area spins out of control, trying to trace back each chain of transmission can feel like scooping cupfuls of water from a flood.

In some places, overwhelmed health officials have abandoned any pretense of keeping up.

In North Dakota, state officials announced they could no longer have one-on-one conversations with everyone who may have been exposed. Aside from situations involving schools and health care facilities, people who test positive were advised to notify their own contacts, leaving residents largely on their own to follow the trail of the outbreak.

In Philadelphia, where cases recently spiked to more than 300 per day, city officials acknowledged that they now must leave some cases untracked. Most people, they said, are catching the virus through family and friends.

“We weren’t supposed to get to this point,” said Dr. Arnold S. Monto, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan, who said the process of tracking cases and notifying people who may have been exposed is a gold standard of disease prevention but impractical after a certain level of infection.

“If you have five clusters going on at the same time,” he said, “it’s hard to say where it came from.”

When a first major outbreak hit Grand Forks, N.D., in April, the problem was clear: More than 150 employees of a wind turbine blade factory were infected. The factory shut its doors for several weeks, and public health officials tested and contact traced each case.

For the rest of the summer, Grand Forks, a college town of 56,000 on the border with Minnesota, saw almost no new infections. An uptick in August was quickly tied to students at the University of North Dakota and largely contained.

Now, though, any sense of control has vanished. Active cases of Covid-19 have quadrupled since the beginning of October to 912 in Grand Forks County, and about half the people contacted by the health department say they are not sure how they became infected.

“People are realizing that you can get it anywhere,” said Kailee Leingang, a 21-year-old nursing student who also works as a state contact tracer in Grand Forks. Even Ms. Leingang has fallen ill, along with several of her colleagues. She traces her case to her parents, who first started showing symptoms. Beyond that, the trail goes cold.

“They have no idea,” she said of where her parents came in contact with the virus.

Ms. Leingang, isolating at her home with her cat, feels sicker by the day. Dishes have piled up in the sink — she is too weak to stand long enough to wash them. But she is still working, calling at least 50 people a day to notify them that their tests came back positive, though her job is no longer to track who else they may have infected. “With the high number of cases right now,” she said, “our team can’t afford to have somebody not work.”

In earlier, quieter periods of the pandemic, the virus spread with some degree of certainty. In all but the hardest-hit cities, people could ask a common question — “Where did you get it?” — and often find tangible answers.

A popular college bar in East Lansing, Mich., Harper’s Restaurant and Brewpub, became a hot spot this summer after dozens of people piled into the bar, drinking, dancing and crowding close together. At least 192 people — 146 people at the bar and 46 people with ties to those at the bar — were infected. Afterward, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer shut down indoor dining in bars in parts of the state.

In Ingham County, which includes much of East Lansing, it is far harder to tell where the virus is spreading now. Of the county’s 4,700 reported cases over the course of the pandemic, more than 2,700 have come since the beginning of September.

Much of the new spread may be tied to students at Michigan State University, where students are living off campus and taking classes online. But every day, employers and residents call the Health Department to report random cases that defy easy explanation.

“It’s just a hodgepodge,” said Linda Vail, the Ingham County health officer.

Heidi Stevens is among the newly infected who considers her case a mystery. As a columnist at The Chicago Tribune, Ms. Stevens works from home. Her children attend school online. She wears a mask when she goes for a run, and she has not had a haircut since January.

So when she got a precautionary test a few weeks ago, with the hopes of inviting friends over to have cake for her daughter’s 15th birthday, Ms. Stevens was shocked to learn she was positive.

“I would drive myself crazy if I tried to really nail it down,” said Ms. Stevens, 46, who was hospitalized for three days and still wakes up with headaches. Did she pick up an infected apple at the grocery store and somehow touch her eye? Should she have been wearing a face shield, in addition to her mask? The possibilities feel endless.

“It’s just out there,” she said.





No.14 article:
In Brooklyn, a Ghost of Breweries Past

Remnants of 19th-century Bushwick still exist at the William Ulmer Brewery. A castle-like, two-story office is on the market as residences, while other plans have been stalled by the pandemic.

In 1985, while living on a friend’s couch after being thrown out of a studio in Long Island City, Jay Swift, a young sculptor, spent months scouring the city for a place where he could live and make art for the long haul. While prowling grungy, postindustrial Bushwick on his old Dawes bicycle, he turned the corner onto a one-block street called Belvidere and found himself gawking at what looked like an intimate little castle made of fiery orange-red brick and terra cotta.

“The first time I rode my bike down that street and saw that building, I almost fell over,” Mr. Swift recalled. “That place was magical.”

The object of his affection was a knockout Romanesque Revival showplace built in 1885 as a two-story office for the William Ulmer Brewery, which stood next door and survives today as a vacant shell adorned with a colorful wash of graffiti.

The little brick office was given its castle-like aspect by the pedimented parapet atop its raised central bay, which was adorned with decorative corbeled arches. Added panache was provided by terra-cotta accents: a luscious band of flowers above the ground floor and the Ulmer firm’s trademark “U” in three places — high above the entrance as well as on richly embellished corbels flanking a mansard roof.

But the place was a wreck. Not one of its 46 windows had any glass, and all of them were sealed with steel plates to keep intruders out. The roof had been leaking for years, and the staircase was nearly in the basement.

“Thirteen-foot cobwebs hung from the ceiling to the floor, and the whole back floor was rotted,” Mr. Swift said. “If I hadn’t gotten that building when I did, it wouldn’t still be standing.”

Mr. Swift bought the place with an artist friend, Lisa Schachner, who cobbled together the $40,000 purchase price by selling a David Hockney print and several small Mark di Suvero sculptures, then borrowing the balance from her parents. For his part, Mr. Swift, a jack-of-all-trades with an arsenal of tools, spent the next six years resuscitating the magnificent ruin.

Now the spiffily renovated brewery office at 31 Belvidere Street is on the market, through Nathan Horne of Compass, for $3.99 million, a whisker less than 100 times what Ms. Schachner paid for it 35 years ago. 

“I need to get on with my life, and I need the finances to do it,” she said, noting that she hasn’t lived in the building since 1991. “We both have different directions that we’re going in and we need to move on.”

Separated into two one-story units, the roughly 6,000-square-foot, seven-bedroom building includes an attached stable at the back with wide, segmentally arched doors that once admitted horses and wagons. Light enters the building through round-arched windows on three sides and four skylights, one of them stained glass.

At the same time, the neighboring four-story brewery is also in play. Travis Stabler, a developer whose office occupies the second floor of the old brewery office, bought the three conjoined brewery buildings next door with two partners, MacArthur Holdings and Brightsky Investments, for $14 million in 2018. They had hoped to transform the hulking structures into retail and office space for lease, potentially with a craft brewery operating both above ground and in the cavernous cellars. 

But the Covid-19 pandemic crushed their plans as abruptly as Prohibition killed the William Ulmer Brewery exactly 100 years ago.

“Pre-Covid we were close to a deal with a high-end, James Beard Award-winning baker,” Mr. Stabler said. Now, he added, “we are going back to square one.”

The William Ulmer Brewery complex, which was designated a city landmark in 2010, is a largely intact remnant of an era when as many as 45 breweries operated in Brooklyn, many concentrated in the heavily German areas of Bushwick and Williamsburg. The district was favored by German brewers in part because of its soft soil, which allowed for easy excavation to create the cool, underground caves required to produce lager.

Numerous Brooklyn breweries died of thirst after the National Prohibition Act went into effect in 1920. The industry revived after the act’s repeal in 1933, but was again badly damaged by a labor strike in 1949, which allowed big national Midwestern brewers like Anheuser-Busch and Miller to invade the New York market in force.

By 1952, just four Brooklyn brewers were left, and in 1976, the borough’s last two, Rheingold and Schaefer, were shuttered, done in by high local costs and the inefficiencies of their aging plants. Housing, some of it very upscale, has been built on former Rheingold and Schaefer sites.

After a decade-long dry spell, Brooklyn Brewery brought the brewmaster’s art back to King’s County, selling its first batch of Brooklyn Lager in 1988 and opening a factory in Williamsburg in 1996. The company’s retro label — designed by Milton Glaser with a looping “B” evocative of both classic German beer labels and the Brooklyn Dodgers — projected a renewed pride in Brooklyn.

Today the borough is a place of special ferment, home to 25 breweries, according to the New York City Brewers Guild. Many operate in the same neighborhoods as their forebears: six in Williamsburg and Greenpoint, and another seven in Bushwick and in the adjacent Queens neighborhood of Ridgewood. Seven more are clustered in and around the greater Gowanus area.

Many of these new brew houses are small, niche operations, another echo of the late 19th century.

“I have a collection of old New York City brewery bottles, and lots of the brewers were tiny, selling to their neighborhood,” said Steve Hindy, a co-founder of Brooklyn Brewery. “What’s happened today is, I think, a back-to-the-future of that model: The breweries that came back are making most of their money at that location in their tasting rooms.”

The William Ulmer Brewery, by contrast, grew to be a major producer.

Ulmer, a German native, immigrated to America around 1850 at age 17 and took a job at a New York City brewery owned by two uncles. He rose to the position of brew master at a second family firm before cofounding the Vigelius &amp; Ulmer Continental Lagerbier Brewery in the early 1870s.

The company’s redbrick brew house rose on the corner of Belvidere and Beaver streets in 1872 and was expanded to the west nine years later, according to research by the city Landmarks Preservation Commission. Both sections were designed in the American round arch style common to breweries of the period, featuring projecting brick pilasters and intricate pedimented parapets with zigzag-patterned brickwork.

At ground level, a broad, round-arched door on Beaver Street accommodated horses and wagons. Up top, a ventilating tower was handsomely fitted out with a four-sided mansard roof pierced by round-arched dormers.

In 1885, Ulmer, by then the brewery’s sole owner, undertook a major building program. The architect was Theobald Engelhardt, a Brooklyn-born German-American, who designed many breweries as well as other prominent local buildings, like St. John’s Evangelical Lutheran Church in Greenpoint.

To keep pace both with increasing demand and technological innovation, the Belvidere Street side of the brew house was extended by the addition of a machine house and a two-story boiler house, both in a matching American round arch style. The eye-catching new office was separated from the boiler house by a passageway with an ornate iron gate.

“There is somehow more shine, more glitter, more ostentation of wealth about the lager beer establishments” than was typical at breweries that produced English-style ale, the Brooklyn Eagle observed in 1886. The Ulmer office won special admiration from the reporter, who noted that “the counting houses” of Ulmer’s brewery and two of its Bushwick brethren “are not surpassed by anything of the kind in Broadway and Wall Street.”

The Ulmer office was expanded at the rear around 1890 with the addition of an attached wagon house and stable. The stable had a round-arched doorway at the back, now bricked up, that gave access to a contiguous new three-story brick stable and storage building fronting Locust Street.

That brewery storage building, which came to include a cooperage for making beer barrels, is today divided into residential lofts. At the top of the Locust Street facade is a damaged terra-cotta roundel with a missing ornament, possibly another Ulmer trademark “U” swiped by a gargoyle hunter.

When the Ulmer Brewery was shuttered by Prohibition in 1920, Ulmer’s heirs moved into the real estate business, retaining the office and its attached wagon house and stable. In 1952, the Ulmer office was sold to an electrical appliance manufacturer, which in turn sold it to Acme Lanterns, a company that made lighting fixtures in a loft building next door.

Acme, which was owned by a Romanian-born immigrant named Max Kushner, used the old brewery office for storage and to house big metal presses, one of which cost Mr. Kushner a finger, said Diane Altman, his granddaughter.

When Mrs. Altman and her husband, Neil, walked into the old brewery office for the first time around 1968, they were astounded — despite the general filth — by the fine cherry wood wainscoting, the fireplaces, the roll-top desks and the nine-and-a-half-foot doors with clouded glass, on which were etched words like “Private Room” and “Directors Room.”

“It was like a castle in decay,” Mrs. Altman said, “but still recognizable as something beautiful and magnificent.”

Most striking “was a little vestibule with a stained-glass window from 1872,” Mr. Altman added. “It was exactly like the ‘U’ symbol on the top of the building.” With Mr. Kushner’s permission, the couple took the window to their home in Staten Island.

By the time Ms. Schachner and Mr. Swift bought the rain-rotted office in 1985, it was crammed with brass parts from the lamp business and virtually every surface had been covered with ugly brown paint, including the moldings, which were of solid cherry wood nine inches wide and four inches deep. “Jay had this group of artist friends and they would help come and fix up our place,” Ms. Schachner recalled. “It was like a barn raising.”

At the brewery’s peak, its buildings had stood on three sides of a courtyard that today is mostly taken up by a modern, one-story cold-storage building. But a narrow section of the courtyard, paved with original Belgian blocks, survives alongside the office and stable.

Mr. Swift surmised that horse-drawn wagons would be loaded with beer in the courtyard, and the delivery men would stop into a vestibule inside the office’s side entrance.

“There was a little window I took out, and they’d say how many barrels were going out and where they were taking it to — this bar and this bar and this bar,” Mr. Swift said. The window was etched with the words “Collectors Window,” he added, and it “was at an odd height because someone probably sat at a desk on the other side.”

While living in and restoring the building, Mr. Swift scraped off the brown ceiling paint and was amazed to discover an artwork that only a brewer would commission: a fresco of barley and hops.

The brewery buildings next door have also been a source of archaeological discoveries. On the south wall of the boiler house are the remnants of arched apertures now sealed with bricks. The ghostly outlines of a chute can also be seen slanting down to a trough in the southwest corner that was revealed by a recent excavation, right beneath the spot where a 19th-century illustration shows the brewery’s great chimney. (The chimney has long since been removed.)

Mr. Stabler, the developer, said that coal was likely delivered through the arched windows, then directed to the boiler in the corner. “This is the room where you’d have giant pots where you’d heat up the mix,” he said.

Lager was typically produced with a three-vessel system, said Mr. Hindy, the Brooklyn Brewery co-founder. After steeping in a vessel called a mash tun, barley was pumped into a big strainer called a lauter tun, which strained off the liquid, known as wort. The wort was then pumped into a brew kettle, which would be brought to a rolling boil by steam pumped through coils from the boiler. At that point hops, a flowering perennial that imparted bitterness and aroma to the wort, were added.

The hot wort was then pumped into a fermenter, and as it cooled, yeast was added to start the fermentation that would create a beverage containing alcohol and carbon dioxide — in a word: beer. The final stage of production was the cold storage, or “lagering,” of the beer in the brewery’s three cavernous cellar levels. The deepest cellar, 40 feet below grade, has five chambers with 14-foot vaulted ceilings. 

Because such storage caves were sometimes not naturally cold enough, especially in summer, New York brewers often used ice harvested from the Hudson River. But by 1887, a landmarks commission report notes, maps showed that an ice machine had been installed on the second floor of the machine house.

When Mr. Stabler and his partners bought the brewery, they were intrigued by a section of the back wall in the first subbasement of the brew house, which was covered with Sheetrock. When they ripped out that drywall, they discovered a broad, brick-lined shaft under the former courtyard. Mr. Stabler speculated that the shaft might have been used for an elevator or block-and-tackle system to haul soil upstairs when the cellars were being excavated. Such a mechanism could also have been employed to convey beer barrels between the cellars and the courtyard level, where a one-story keg-filling room, since demolished, was built in the mid-1880s.

Although the brewery office has been rented primarily as residences since the 1990s and the brew house has been empty since its previous owner, an importer, cleared out his millions of bargain knickknacks, the buildings all still have the unmistakable aura of places purpose-built for hard, efficient work.

In the 12 years Mr. Swift lived in the office, he operated a stone-working business out of the stable and made sculpture there, too. He had a stone shop, a metal shop and a wood shop, as well as a forge and a mini-forklift.

“That building was so easy to work out of,” he remembered fondly. “The way Mr. Ulmer built his building made it easy for him to work out of it. It’s approached from such an honest plan of design, of operation, of quality, that it functions.”





No.15 article:
The 2020 Battleground States: Updates on the Swing Voters





No.16 article:
N.F.L. Week 8 Predictions: Our Picks Against the Spread

Lamar Jackson will look for room to run against unbeaten Pittsburgh, San Francisco will try to hand Seattle a losing streak and Tua Time begins in Miami.

A battle of A.F.C. royalty, the first start for a highly rated rookie quarterback and two previously unbeaten teams hoping to make up for last week’s losses highlight what looks like a promising week of action.

Here’s a look at N.F.L. Week 8 with all picks made against the spread.

Last week’s record: 6-7-1

Overall record: 53-50-2

Pittsburgh Steelers at Baltimore Ravens, 1 p.m., CBS

Line: Ravens -3.5 | Total: 47

The Steelers (6-0) were forced to sweat a little at the end of last week’s win over Tennessee, but they survived to become the N.F.L.’s last remaining unbeaten team. That status should be tested, heavily, by the Ravens (5-1), who are coming out of a bye week and are likely relishing the chance to flex their collective muscle against a fellow heavyweight.

This is the 25th time that Coach John Harbaugh has faced Coach Mike Tomlin, which will set a record for the Super Bowl era, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. And just as it has been in so many of those games, the matchup is a case of strength against strength: Pittsburgh has the N.F.L.’s most effective run defense, and Baltimore, despite results this year that are a bit below its typical standards, has the most fearsome collection of runners this side of the 1948 San Francisco 49ers.

The Steelers minimized the mighty Titans running back Derrick Henry last week, proving how tough they can be, but it’s worth noting that the last player to top 100 yards rushing against Pittsburgh was Gus Edwards, who is effectively the third or fourth option for Baltimore on any running play but may have an increased role this week if Mark Ingram is forced out with an ankle injury.

The teams excel at defending both the run and the pass. They both pass the ball and run the ball fairly well. And they both are legitimate Super Bowl contenders. That this game is wasted in a 1 p.m. time slot, while a putrid N.F.C. East matchup between Philadelphia and Dallas is in prime time, is unforgivable. But it should at least give Sunday an exciting start. Pick: Ravens -3.5

Los Angeles Rams at Miami Dolphins, 1 p.m., Fox

Line: Rams -4 | Total: 45.5

It’s Tua Time. Ryan Fitzpatrick may have expressed disappointment that Tua Tagovailoa had been named starting quarterback for the Dolphins (3-3), but the move makes perfect sense. Miami is playing about as well as can be expected considering the state of the team’s rebuild, but even that good fortune does not have the Dolphins in line for a playoff spot despite the expanded format. Acknowledging that the team’s long-term future hinges on its 22-year-old rookie, rather than a nearly-38-year-old with a 58-86-1 career record is not exactly a controversial stance.

The extreme view would be declaring that Tagovailoa will make the team better now, especially when he’s about to face the Rams’ fairly good secondary, led by cornerback Jalen Ramsey, and the looming presence of defensive tackle Aaron Donald, who would undoubtedly like to welcome a rookie quarterback to the league by hugging him tightly several times. Pick: Rams -4

San Francisco 49ers at Seattle Seahawks, 4:25 p.m., Fox

Line: Seahawks -3 | Total: 54

After daring teams to beat them in its first five games, Seattle finally found a jam it couldn’t wriggle its way out of in an overtime loss to Arizona. In that game, the Seahawks (5-1) allowed 519 yards, stacking up a whopping 2,875 for the season, which is an N.F.L. record through six games, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.

That stat isn’t everything, but Seattle is also 23rd in points allowed per game, 24th in net yards allowed per passing attempt, 31st in passing yards allowed and 30th in first downs allowed. This is not a blip: The team is bad defensively.

The question is if 49ers quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo can exploit that awful Seahawks pass defense to the extent that he is keeping up with a highly motivated Russell Wilson. Pick: Seahawks -3

Tennessee Titans at Cincinnati Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS

Line: Titans -6 | Total: 55

Las Vegas oddsmakers expect this to be the highest scoring game of the week, and that should not surprise anyone. The Titans (5-1) have an electric offense led by Ryan Tannehill and Derrick Henry and the Bengals (1-5-1) have been loving life with quarterback Joe Burrow, regardless of their poor record so far.

This game could easily have the look of a Pro Bowl, with defenders lazily jogging in the background of offensive highlight videos. But while Burrow is likely to win games like this at some point, it’s hard to believe he can overcome Tannehill and Henry at this stage of his career. Pick: Titans -6

New England Patriots at Buffalo Bills, 1 p.m., CBS

Line: Bills -3 | Total: 43

After the first few weeks of the season, these teams looked like two of the N.F.L.’s best. Since then, the Bills’ (5-2) offensive struggles joined their defensive issues among the team’s concerns. The Patriots (2-4) have outdone that by simply being awful, since starting 2-1. A case could be made that one of these teams will leave Sunday’s game with some momentum, but Buffalo managed to attract even more doubters when it “only” beat the Jets, 18-10, last week, without scoring a single touchdown.

In searching for a reason for New England’s struggles, TV commentator Jeff Garcia took aim at Cam Newton’s postgame outfits rather than any legitimate reasons like, say, the team’s defense, which has been flailing equally against the run and the pass despite the presence of cornerback Stephon Gilmore. Pick: Bills -3

Los Angeles Chargers at Denver Broncos, 4:05 p.m., CBS

Line: Chargers -3 | Total: 44.5

Justin Herbert of the Chargers (2-4) had been knocking at the door of his first victory for weeks, coming fairly close to beating Patrick Mahomes, Tom Brady and Drew Brees in the process. He finally kicked that door down in an easy win over Jacksonville last week. The stakes were obviously low in that game, and aren’t much higher against the Broncos (2-4), but winnable games against lesser teams are good practice for a rookie quarterback.

This game comes with the added complication of being in Denver’s thin air, but with Chargers defensive end Melvin Ingram expected to return on defense, and wide receiver Keenan Allen looking fully healthy on offense, Herbert should get his first winning streak. Pick: Chargers -3

Minnesota Vikings at Green Bay Packers, 1 p.m., Fox

Line: Packers -6.5 | Total: 54

The Vikings (1-5) aren’t rebuilding. This off-season they jettisoned most of the recognizable names on their defense, and traded away one of their best offensive players for draft picks, but this is not a rebuilding effort. They have been very clear about this. If you think they are rebuilding, you are wrong.

When last seen, Minnesota’s not-rebuilding defense, which features multiple rookies in its secondary, was humiliated by previously-winless Atlanta. Now that same group of players gets to try its hand at stopping Aaron Rodgers and the Packers (5-1) in Green Bay. Expect a Packers victory, probably by as many points as Green Bay wants, but the likelihood that Kirk Cousins picks up a few garbage time touchdowns makes the spread too aggressive. Pick: Vikings +6.5

Indianapolis Colts at Detroit Lions, 1 p.m., CBS

Line: Colts -3 | Total: 50

Through his first five games in Indianapolis, the knock on Philip Rivers was that he struggled mightily when the Colts (4-2) fell behind, to some a serious sign of his decline. Then in Week 6, he fell behind by 21 points before catching fire and throwing for three touchdowns, putting up 371 yards, 31 points and tying for the largest regular season comeback in franchise history — against Cincinnati’s truly atrocious defense.

The Lions (3-3) present a fairly interesting challenge. Having won three of its last four games, Detroit has mostly benefited from a soft part of the schedule, but has, at the very least, been executing far better than at any point under Coach Matt Patricia. And the Lions’ win over Arizona in Week 3 is proof that their success can’t be entirely dismissed.

The Colts are likely to get linebacker Darius Leonard back from a groin injury this week, which dramatically improves the team’s defense, but they should be favored even if he needs another week. Pick: Colts -3

Jets at Kansas City Chiefs, 1 p.m., CBS

Line: Chiefs -19.5 | Total: 48.5

In the only other instance of the Jets starting 0-7, in 1996, quarterback Neil O’Donnell lost the team’s first six games before injuring his shoulder and handing off to Frank Reich, who lost his first two games. Reich and company finally eked out a win over Arizona to end the losing streak at eight. Then the Jets lost their final seven games as well.

Playing on the road against the Chiefs (6-1) seemingly guarantees that these Jets will match that 0-8 start. Does Kansas City care enough about this game to win by 20 points? Can the Jets lose by 20 without any effort from the other team? Reasonable questions. But expect the Jets to lose, regardless. Pick: Jets +19.5

Las Vegas Raiders at Cleveland Browns, 1 p.m., Fox

Line: Browns -2.5 | Total: 53.5

If you like to see quarterbacks chuck the ball down the field with impunity, this should be the game for you. According to Football Outsiders, the Raiders (3-3) and Browns (5-2) have two of the 10 least efficient pass defenses in the N.F.L., a stat that has been borne out on the scoreboard as both teams allow opponents more than 30 points a game.

Cleveland, however, defends the run far better than Las Vegas does, and also runs the ball better. The over/under of 53.5 seems fairly low, but Cleveland being a narrow favorite in what is likely to be a shootout seems right. Pick: Browns -2.5

New Orleans Saints at Chicago Bears, 4:25 p.m., Fox

Line: Saints -4 | Total: 44

It’s hard to imagine a team with a record as good as the Bears (5-2) dealing with so much drama, but it was a fairly big bombshell that got dropped during Monday night’s broadcast when Brian Griese, an analyst for ESPN, said that quarterback Nick Foles had expressed serious concerns about Coach Matt Nagy’s understanding of the team’s capabilities.

According to Griese, Foles said, “You know, sometimes play calls come in and I know that I don’t have time to execute that play call. You know, I’m the one out here getting hit. Sometimes the guy calling the plays, Matt Nagy, he doesn’t know how much time there is back here.”

Nagy said afterward that he didn’t know what Griese was talking about. And when asked about the possibility of giving up play-calling duties, Nagy said that he wasn’t the problem.

“I’m really honestly not opposed to, there’s no opposition from me if we feel like that that’s what the issue is,” he said. “And so we look at that. Right now, where we’re at, that’s not where we think it’s at.” Pick: Saints -4

Dallas Cowboys at Philadelphia Eagles, 8:20 p.m., NBC

Line: Eagles -7.5 | Total: 43.5

How much would it change the game plan for the Cowboys (2-5) if quarterback Andy Dalton is unable to clear the league’s concussion protocol this week? Consider that there have been only six games this season in which a quarterback attempted 50 or more passes, and Dallas is responsible for three of them — including the 54 that Dalton attempted against Arizona in Week 6. This is a team that needs to throw the ball to have a shot at mitigating its very bad defense.

Backup quarterback Ben DiNucci may be a lovely person, but the 2020 seventh-round pick out of James Madison hasn’t attempted even 40 passes in a game since an October 2018 loss at home to Elon University. The Eagles (2-4-1), despite their flaws, have a considerably more intimidating pass-rush and secondary than Elon did, so Dallas would likely turn to running back Ezekiel Elliott rather than leave everything in a rookie quarterback’s hands. Based on what we’ve seen from Elliott so far this season, that won’t work. Pick: Eagles -7.5

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Giants, 8:15 p.m., ESPN

Line: Buccaneers -10.5 | Total: 46

Laugh all you want about Daniel Jones’s wild run — and ridiculous stumble — against Philadelphia last week, but facts are facts and after that 80-yard run the Giants (1-6) finished off the drive with a touchdown. They still lost, mind you, but it could be argued that it was the greatest moment of the team’s inglorious season, outside of a sloppy win over Washington. The guy hit 21.23 miles-per-hour! Stop laughing!

Silver linings like that should be few and far between against the Buccaneers (5-2), a team that seems to have realized its potential over the last few weeks and then primed itself to add receiver Antonio Brown in Week 9.

It’s worth remembering that Coach Bruce Arians had this to say about Brown in March: “There’s no room. It’s just not gonna happen. It’s just not a fit here.” Some injuries to the Buccaneers’ receivers — including a broken index finger that will keep Chris Godwin out this week — resulted in Brown being declared to have “matured” by Arians.

Though Brown isn’t available this week, there’s no reason to believe Tampa Bay will lose this game. But the Giants have played their last four opponents fairly tight and the Buccaneers are down a key player on offense, so this one could be a lot closer than oddsmakers have predicted. Pick: Giants +10.5

Atlanta looked like it might be blowing another fourth-quarter lead, but Blidi Wreh-Wilson intercepted a Teddy Bridgewater pass that saved the day for the Falcons, who improved to 2-6 with the road victory.

We picked Panthers -2.5 based on their home field advantage and the expectation that running back Christian McCaffrey would be healthy enough to be activated from injured reserve. But McCaffrey wasn’t activated and the combination of Matt Ryan (281 yards passing), Julio Jones (137 yards receiving) and Younghoe Koo (four field goals) proved too much for Carolina to overcome.

A quick primer for those who are not familiar with betting lines: Favorites are listed next to a negative number that represents how many points they must win by to cover the spread. Ravens -3.5, for example, means that Baltimore must beat Pittsburgh by at least 4 points for its backers to win their bet. Gamblers can also bet on the total score, or whether the teams’ combined score in the game is over or under a preselected number of points.





No.17 article:
In Fiction, Martin Amis Summons His Literary Friends and Role Models

INSIDE STORY By Martin Amis

Seventeen years ago, I waited in line at the 92nd Street Y for Martin Amis to sign my copy of “Yellow Dog,” his 10th novel. I was also holding a Believer magazine, which contained something I’d written, something indebted to Amis, something I wanted him to have. Outside, above Manhattan, raged a storm of subtropical violence. Inside my heart raged something nearly as ferocious, for I was thinking of what Amis had written in his 2000 memoir “Experience”: “Sometimes, in the signing queue, I see a pair of eyes quietly telling me that communion has occurred.” Mindful of that, drawing closer to Amis, I went moon-eyed in attempted communion.

When my turn came I handed him my magazine — or rather, tried to. He drew back, as though I were passing him an unwanted bill or possibly a horned toad. Panicking, I reminded him of the emails we’d exchanged, months ago, and of my first book, which I’d sent him. Amis relaxed. He warmed. He even accepted the magazine, which listed several pieces on the cover; I helpfully pointed out mine. Before he signed my “Yellow Dog” — a book I loved, though few others at the time seemed to — his eyes flicked about the table. Pondering his dedication, no doubt. Already I was relishing the words he’d use to commemorate this moment. On the street, in the rain, I opened the book. Amis’s dedication began, “Dear Joshua…” Not until I got home did I piece it together. On The Believer’s cover, the article listed next to mine was written by Joshuah Bearman.

I tell this story not to embarrass the man. I tell this story to honor the man, to demonstrate his heroic openness to the equality of the reader-writer relationship. Behold the world-class talent, reduced to darting eyes and nervousness, due to the weighty presence before him. No, not some duchess, celebrity or Nobel jurist, but — well, just a kid, really, holding a book. Many successful writers forget the “you” part of the equation, the uniquely fissile power of the reader. Amis’s go-to example for such authorial abdication has always been late-career Joyce, whom he memorably describes in his new book, “Inside Story,” as equivalent to a madman “angrily arguing with himself in several languages at once” and giving the reader, his supposed guest, “a bowlful of turnips and eels.”

“Inside Story” is a heartier meal. It purports to be an autobiographical novel — “life-writing,” Amis calls it — featuring a number of real people, many of them famous, along with others who’ve been lightly pseudonymed, yet it’s also, somehow, a vocational primer on how to write fiction, and an excellent one at that. “Inside Story” contains a goodly helping of leftovers, too, many ladled from “Experience.” “Self-plagiarism is not a felony,” Amis writes. Fair enough. Revisiting “Experience” is hardly a penance. That book, as the kids apparently used to say, is the bomb — a mindbomb and a heartbomb.

This book is more of a car bomb, both in terms of the tragedies it depicts and its wanton destruction of novelistic form. Amis describes the book as “fairly strictly autobiographical,” a phrase whose adverbs work in cooperative negation. Amis frequently registers his unease with his life-writing project, noting in one footnote that placing “actual contemporaries in literature has consequences which some (including me) find uncomfortably worldly.” And there’s this: “The book in your hands calls itself a novel — and it is a novel, I maintain.” His “I maintain,” I maintain, gives the game away. You can hardly assume that all of what’s depicted happened, but you’re also encouraged to assume it did. Here’s Amis, long ago, writing about a Malcolm Lowry biography: “How much do we need to know about a writer, personally? The answer is that it doesn’t matter. Nothing or everything is equally satisfactory. Who cares, in the end?” “Who cares” is my informed position on what’s fiction and what’s not in “Inside Story.”

The celestial bodies in orbit around Amis are by now familiar to his devoted readers, both the minor (the Uranus of Wilfred Owen, the Pluto of J. G. Ballard) and the major (the Mars of Philip Larkin, the Venus of James Fenton). Amis has illuminated them all with the life-giving warmth of his brilliant, generous and sometimes unsparing critical writing. And then there’s Vladimir Vladimirovich. It’s been fun, while reading Amis’s nonfiction over the years, to track the TTN — the time to Nabokov — of his individual books. “Visiting Mrs. Nabokov”’s TTN is, predictably, 0.3 pages. The TTN of “Experience” is 24 pages. “The War Against Cliché”: 11 pages. “Koba the Dread”: 24 pages. “The Second Plane”’s TTN is a scandalous 51 pages. “The Rub of Time”: 10 pages. (Once again, not a complaint. Some of Amis’s finest works of criticism are dissections of what he’s called the “leviathan” of Nabokov’s corpus.) The TTN of “Inside Story” is 0.9. While Nabokov remains Amis’s godlike Jupiter, it’s the Saturn of Saul Bellow that emerges and dominates here. This dominance, however, is tragic and Lear-like, for the rings are fast fading and the planet itself has cooled.

“Experience” was largely devoted to Amis’s relationship with his father, the novelist Kingsley Amis. Near the end of that book, after Kingsley’s death, Amis, still in shock, asked Bellow if he could call him his new father, his literary father. “As long as you’re alive,” he wrote to Bellow, in direct address, “I’ll never feel entirely fatherless.” Eight years later, in England, in 2003, Amis and Bellow are enjoying one of their frequent visits. “Tell me,” Bellow asks him, “how are Nat and Gus? How’re they getting along?” Amis tells Bellow his sons are great, growing, healthy. Bellow says nothing, a silence that soon turns “frightening.” Moments later, Bellow asks again: “Tell me. How are Nat and Gus?”

Already suffering from mild depression and what he calls “suicidal ideation,” Amis cannot quite handle the possibility that Bellow, a “force of nature,” could be so cruelly deprived. Of Bellow’s mind, Amis writes it was as if “everything that was beautiful or holy had been looted or wrecked.” Amis reads up on Bellow’s condition: “I, who cruised through whole libraries devoted to famine, terror-famine, plagues and pandemics … was quite unable to contemplate dementia.” Learning about the ravages of Alzheimer’s, he writes, “brought me close to the onset of clinical panic.”

Amis describes fiction writing, here and elsewhere, as “freedom. … Nothing, nothing whatever, should be shielded from the writer’s eye. If this is the view of a literary fundamentalist, then that is what I am.” At the same time, the autobiographical fiction writer “seems to be crying out for boundaries and impediments and restraints.” Bellow, too, wrote novels “abrim with his private life,” as Amis points out. The question inevitably arises: Is depicting Bellow in this state honorable life-writing or something crasser? What would Bellow do? Well, as it happens, Bellow asked various friends he’d written about to sign Trumpian libel waivers, which indicates his awareness of life-writing’s ethical dangers. But he wrote what he had to write. It should be needless to say, but probably isn’t, that a seismic love and respect animate Amis’s portrait of the diminished Bellow.

Throughout the book, Amis penetratingly relates the horrors of late middle age, less genteelly known as the beginning of the end. While his mother dies and his literary hero sits “becalmed in the doldrums of dementia,” Amis proceeds through “the Crap Decade” of his 50s. He’s heard rumors that your 60s can provide a cheerful new equilibrium, but before that can happen, his best friend, the journalist Christopher Hitchens, is discovered to have Stage 4 esophageal cancer. Behind him, the Amis brood fruitfully multiplies (five children, two grandchildren), but ahead lies a dark wood with ever fewer friends and elders to light the way through. Amis’s suicidal ideation doesn’t feel affected. If anything, Amis and suicide are well matched, comedically. At one point he demands to know why his 3-year-old daughter isn’t also contemplating suicide.

So many of the people who appear in “Inside Story” are pieces of work — delightful, difficult, confusing, exhausting. There’s Amis’s five-year paramour Phoebe Phelps, who instantly takes her place among his greatest gargoyles, somewhere, say, between the two Keiths, Whitehead and Talent, from “Dead Babies” and “London Fields.” Bellow was obviously a huge piece of work. Kingsley and Larkin were less pieces of work than sprawling construction sites of overturned cranes and sparkingly severed power lines. Amis, too, is a piece of work, in his way.

And then there’s Christopher Hitchens, a pièce de résistance — a masterpiece — of work: the socialist socialite who devoted his life to hard-left social justice, only to throw in with the hard-right mountebanks of the Bush administration; the man who infamously, idiotically declared women can’t be funny. We learn Hitchens never agreed with Amis’s literary fundamentalist position that writing “insists on freedom, absolute freedom, including freedom from all ideology.” Hitchens mocked religious belief yet could never quite unshackle himself from socialist belief, despite its similar tendencies toward intellectual constriction. But Amis and Hitchens loved and forgave each other, for this and all else.

Imagine these men, this friendship, developing in the age of Twitter. You can’t, because it’s impossible. I know when “Inside Story” appears, there will be cries — as there were when Hitchens died — of warmongering, racism, sexism and Islamophobia, targeting both Amis and Hitchens. (Amis’s twin masterpieces, “Money” and “London Fields,” could both be plausibly retitled “Trigger Warning.”) If you fancy yourself a friend of freedom, art and humanity, and find it within yourself to despise these men, congratulations. You wouldn’t recognize a true enemy of humanity unless he drove a spear through your solar plexus.

Amis describes Hitchens as a man who seemed to “covet the disapproval, even the ostracism, of his peers.” Throughout his life, Hitchens sought out these most difficult positions and defended them with the regal ferocity of a Hussar. But we learn from Amis that his friend was privately “tormented by the proliferating disaster of Iraq.” There’s a grim justice to this — Hitchens’s torment was, in this area, well deserved — but only the most hardened will read Amis’s account of his friend’s long, grueling death and find themselves unmoved.

Our author has accepted he is not a cultural cuddle bear. When he proposes writing a certain book, his wife (here called Elena) instantly shoots down the idea. Amis: “You’re thinking it’ll make everyone hate me.” Elena: “They hate you already.” I confess I don’t get this. Have never gotten this. Unlike Hitchens, Amis didn’t help start a war. The scandals surrounding him have always seemed peculiarly British, which is to say ridiculous. Yes, he’s said some foul, intemperate things, most notoriously about Muslims in the years after Sept. 11, and within “Inside Story” you’ll find his implicit apology. So what is it, exactly, that fuels the animadversion against Martin Amis?

“If it has energy,” he writes, “fictional prose will tend to be headstrong.” Could that be it? The opinionated, funny, headstrong prose — the headstrength? Amis has been called a bad boy for decades now, but so few who’ve written about him, whether in amity or discord, have bothered to notice the overriding imperative of his art: to be circumspect, to be generous, to be good-humored, to be kind. Good news: Amis is more open and transparent on these principles than ever before. “In the end,” he writes, “it’s not your Nobel Prize you’re thinking of, it’s not your three National Book Awards and all that. It’s your sins of the heart (real or imagined), it’s your wives, your children, and how things went with them.” And: “This is literature’s dewy little secret. Its energy is the energy of love.”

Twenty years ago, in a review, I called Richard Powers “America’s greatest living novelist.” I used to think it was important, or worth it, to say things like that, to make those judgments. “America’s greatest living novelist”? We’re not cops, zapping passing novelists with a radar talent gun. Writing like that — thinking like that — all you do, ultimately, is embarrass people and yourself. (Sorry, Rick. I still love your work very much.) It’s not worth it, because literature, as Jim Harrison often said, is not a sack race. So how about: Martin Amis is my favorite living writer and “Inside Story” is his most beautiful book. That’s eminently more worth it because it’s human, and that’s all literature is: Human A, dragging his or her mind up a mountain, so Human B can follow the trail. We soar through time at terminal velocity, toward a destination that, on the best of days, terrifies. Books like this one slow us down. The rest is marketing.

Near the end of “Inside Story,” Amis writes that nothing can prepare you for the deaths of your friends, parents, sisters, brothers and loved ones. “Certainly not literature,” he writes, “which is curiously incapable of helping you through the critical events of an average span.” He said something similar in “Experience.” I agreed with him, then. Then I read “Inside Story.” I cannot agree with him now. Now I cannot agree.





No.18 article:
Joe Biden Wishes He Had More Time to Answer Your Question

Perhaps the town hall should have stayed in town. With its move to TV, it has become a patronizing format. The millions of muted viewers are supposed to believe themselves part of the “town,” despite having had no role in choosing the handful of “citizens” whose embodiment of the average American’s idea of an average American has earned them the privilege of asking a question. The resulting spectacle is part ritual, a performance of accountability and deliberation. It is also a parody, in which the consent of the governed boils down to the power switch on the remote.

Born in 1992 and patterned after the then-thriving afternoon talk-show format, the tradition of presidential town halls puttered along until October of this year, when, for reasons of candidate health and national sanity, the debate in that format was scrapped. Donald Trump and Joe Biden instead addressed two separate town halls — Trump at the Pérez Art Museum Miami and Biden at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. The weirdest thing about the double-town-hall format was its simultaneity, which undermined the conceit that the intended audience was undecided voters, looking to make an informed decision. Instead, Americans all had to vote beforehand, in a sense, by choosing between screens.

In Philadelphia, Biden sat in a soft white chair across from George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. The circular stage had been done up to look like a stately living room at the bottom of an abbreviated theater-in-the-round. The voters were scattered high and wide across social distances. To meet their eyes, Biden sometimes had to pivot and peer up into the lights, with the minor but palpable discomfort that has been threaded through the entirety of his pandemic-inflected campaign. In contrast with Trump — who has continued to hold White House gatherings and tightly packed rallies as if everything were normal — Biden has given 2020’s dystopian precautions a starring role in his campaign, with chalk circles and long tables cutting him off from his supporters.

At the town hall, the strangeness of the set backdropped a performance so understated that it verged on boring. Around the dial on NBC, Trump perched against a tall stool on a stage that put him on equal footing with the voters. He treated their questions as prompts; it was left up to the moderator to try and pin him down on matters like white supremacy and the peaceful transfer of power, on which Trump previously tried to stake out some provocative middle ground. Biden seemed to be betting that Americans would choose reassurance over drama. At its core, his pitch was conservative. Some of his nimbler moments came when he ducked questions, one on the Supreme Court, another on his own proposed coronavirus response.

Stephanopoulos introduced Biden’s fourth questioner as a progressive Democrat. His name was Cedric Humphrey; he was from Harrisburg and was now in his senior year at the University of Pittsburgh. Humphrey proceeded to throw the night’s only hardball question — alluding to the time when Biden, his temper flaring, had said, “If you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t Black.”

Humphrey linked that gaffe to a larger concern. “What do you have to say to young Black voters who see voting for you as further participation in a system that continually fails to protect them?” he asked.

Biden embarked on a rambling reply. He quoted John Lewis. He cited a jumbled array of policy initiatives — some in the past, some for the future; some intended to help Black institutions and citizens specifically, some targeted at broader populations including small-business owners and first-time home buyers. Humphrey didn’t look convinced. His question had made it clear that he wasn’t looking for piecemeal reform.

Five minutes in, Stephanopoulos tried to cut Biden off. “Did you hear what you needed to hear?” he asked Humphrey.

“Uh,” Humphrey replied. “I think so.”

Biden seemed aware that he hadn’t closed the deal. “There’s a lot more,” he said. “If you can hang around afterward, I’ll tell you more.”

Biden knew as well as anyone that just as there was no “town,” there was unlikely to be any “afterward,” at least not with Humphrey. Biden’s occasional willingness to press his phone number into the hands of a few of the everyday people he meets is evidence that he understands the impersonal nature of political representation. Campaigns require candidates to mass-produce moments of intimacy; on the trail Biden displays a quixotic determination to salvage something real from them, to forge lasting friendships with a security guard in an elevator or a boy struggling with a stutter, genuine relationships that are in turn harvested by his campaign. As he tried to forge this kind of connection with Humphrey, Biden showed one of his rarer qualities — an almost painfully keen awareness of his own inadequacies.

“No, but I really mean it,” he said, and rambled a bit further, through an account of his own (white) family’s financial difficulties, before finally chancing on the words he was looking for. “You’re behind an eight-ball,” he said. “The vast majority of people of color are behind an eight-ball.” Here was some safe middle ground. “Behind an eight-ball” didn’t contradict Biden’s broadly optimistic rhetoric of America as the land of possibilities, but it did at least hint at something structural and endemic about racial inequality.

Stephanopoulos cut in again to switch to a different questioner. “I’m sorry,” Biden said softly, turning back to Humphrey. It sounded as if he were sorry for his answer, which didn’t go as far as Humphrey might have wanted, but also sorry that they didn’t have more time for some back-and-forth. Within the fake context of the fake town hall, he believed that he and Humphrey might actually be talking to, and not past, each other. His commitment was not so much to a fixed policy platform as to an endangered set of traditions and manners, one that rejected Trump’s politics of contempt.

In the final debate a week later, Biden groped for a metaphor to convincingly portray the country as a union that crisis could strengthen rather than divide. He eventually landed on the classic trope of a middle-class family at a kitchen table, faced with tough economic choices. The cliché was too much for Trump, who interrupted the moderator to get in a rebuttal.

“A typical political statement,” he said, and then added, snidely: “The family, around the table, everything.” Trump knew that the merciless shattering of collective illusions was what the voters of 2016 had wanted from him. “I’m not a typical politician,” he said. “That’s why I got elected.”





No.19 article:
Poem: Gemini

This is what we have had to do, amid pandemic, grief, political chaos, fires, human rights disasters: continue on with our lives. Doing chores … taking walks … teaching kids … trying to stay steady. In his brilliant forthcoming book, “Tethered to Stars,” Fady Joudah writes about the mysterious cosmos swirling with intricate linkages — as his phone is pinging. Ah, yes, Jerusalem, the Holy City! Right now, let’s call all our cities holy. Let’s hope our trees continue to communicate, whatever humans can or can’t accomplish.

By Fady Joudah

After yoga, I took my car to the shop.Coils, spark plugs, computer chips, and a two-mile walkhome, our fossilized public transportation, elementaryschool recess hour, kids whirling joy, the all-familiarneighborhood. And then another newly demolished house.How long since I’ve been out walking? A message appearedon my phone: an American literary magazinecalling for a special issue on Jerusalem, deadline approaching,art and the ashes of light. At the construction sitethe live oak that appeared my age when I became a fatherwas now being dismembered. The machinery and its men:almost always men, poor or cheap labor, coloredwith American dreams. The permit to snuff the treewas legally obtained. The new house is likely destinedfor a nice couple with children. Their childrenwon’t know there was a tree. I paused to watchthe live oak brutalized limb by limb until its trunk stoodhanged, and the wind couldn’t bear the place:who loves the smell of fresh sap in the morning,the waft of SOS the tree’s been sendingto other trees? How many feathers will relocatesince nearby can absorb the birds?Farewell for days on end. They were digging a holearound the tree’s base to uproot and chop itthen repurpose its life.





No.20 article:
Win or Lose, It’s Donald Trump’s Republican Party

To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York Times, download Audm for iPhone or Android.

The tourism bureau of Manatee County, population just over 400,000, advertises the expected trappings of any placid gulfside community in southwest Florida — a historic fishing village, an award-winning local library system, outlet malls. Eighty-six percent white and a noted second-home locale for retirees fleeing the Northeast in winter, Manatee has voted for every Republican presidential nominee since 1948 — the sort of homogeneity that typically produces staid politics. In the summer of 2020, as the county’s residents turned their attention to the race for District 7’s seat on the board of county commissioners, some of the hot-button issues were a new storm-water fee and the wisdom of using public funds to extend 44th Avenue East.

One Republican vying for the office was George Kruse, a 45-year-old finance veteran and novice candidate who owns a commercial real estate debt fund. Kruse, who has an M.B.A. from Columbia and started his career at an affordable-housing equity fund, says he got into the race partly to address the area’s lack of affordable housing; in interviews with local media, he talked about restructuring the county budget and establishing long-term plans for sustainable growth. But from the outset his campaign included a concession to political reality. The top item on his “Conservative Principles for a Better Manatee” brochure was “Support President Trump to Keep America Great.”

Kruse’s principal opponent for the Republican nomination was Ed Hunzeker, the county’s 72-year-old former administrator, who left the position in 2019 after clashing with the county commission over a controversial decision to authorize the construction of a new radio tower next to a local elementary school. In announcing his campaign, Hunzeker called himself a “strong supporter of President Trump,” and he began flooding Facebook with ad after ad to promote his affinity further (“LIKE if you support President Trump!”). Kruse did not feel his own bona fides were in question; one of the first photos posted to his campaign page showed him smiling with his arm around a cardboard cutout of Trump. Nevertheless, on June 30, he debuted his campaign’s new slogan: “Make Manatee Red Again.” “Real Conservatives in Manatee County are done with the RINO Purple/Blue wave taking over our supposedly conservative County Commission,” he declared.

Three days later, Hunzeker put out an ad juxtaposing photos of himself and Trump and promising: “Ed Hunzeker Stands With Our President.” He followed up with a six-second YouTube video featuring a gentle guitar strum, Hunzeker sporting a button-down shirt and hopeful gaze and a single line of text: “Keep Manatee Great.” Two days later, a slightly perspiring Kruse filmed a Facebook Live to clarify his own allegiance. “People who know me know that I support President Trump,” he said. “They see me get out of a truck with a Trump sticker on the back. They see me walking through Publix with a Trump hat on. They see me wearing a variety of different Trump shirts. I don’t need to tell people I support the president. People just see that I support the president.” He continued: “So, you know, consider that over the weekend.”

In the month that followed, it was as if Donald Trump’s Twitter feed achieved three dimensions in Manatee County. Kruse set his profile picture on Facebook to an image — a meme that previously surfaced on Donald Trump Jr.’s Instagram — of Trump’s face superimposed on George Washington’s body, with a machine gun in one arm and a bald eagle perched on the other, with a photo of Kruse himself added just outside the frame. He posted updates tracking “Lyin’ Ed’s” Facebook ad spending. Hunzeker called attention to Kruse’s small donations to Barack Obama in 2008; “George Kruse: Proud Financier of Barack Obama,” one of the ensuing ads announced.

Shortly after, many in Manatee County received a text claiming Black Lives Matter had endorsed Hunzeker, who, it said, wanted to defund the police; Kruse’s campaign denied having anything to do with it. When a local group calling itself the “Trump Committee” revealed “BY POPULAR REQUEST” its endorsement of Hunzeker, Kruse’s supporters were quick to point out that these Trump supporters were not affiliated with the official Trump campaign organization. Kruse warned voters to stay vigilant against the sway of current county commissioners like Carol Whitmore, who had been vocal in her support for Hunzeker. “The inner circle, deep state of Manatee County is scrambling to close ranks,” he wrote in a Facebook post shortly before the primary in August.

Kruse’s Facebook page was such a relentless barrage of wild-eyed warnings that when I reached Kruse by phone recently, I was surprised to find that he was a pretty standard-issue Republican, prone to reciting standard-issue Republican platitudes: The private sector knows best; the free market is fundamental to prosperity. His display of Trump superfandom was a rational political decision precisely because his politics were not obviously Trumplike. “I can sit here all day and say, ‘Here’s my five-step plan on work force housing,’ and a vast majority of voters aren’t going to listen to a word I say,” he told me. “But if I say, ‘I support President Trump, and the other guy doesn’t support him as much as I do,’ — well, anybody who’s going into the polling place, that’s the sentence they need to hear.”

What Kruse believes that sentence communicates is not all that revolutionary in the context of Republican thought. It means that you “believe in free markets” (even if Trump himself believes in trade wars) and “a conservative approach to things” (even if Trump often seems enamored of big government). It means you’re anti-abortion and pro-gun rights. “That’s more of the Trump Republican kind of mentality,” he explained.

To the extent that self-described Bob Dole Republicans still exist, they’d probably say the same thing. But Kruse said Trump’s appeal wasn’t just a set of beliefs; it was a willingness to go to extremes to pursue and defend them. “I think that’s one of the biggest differences he’s brought into the Republican Party,” he said. “It was somebody who was just willing to do what was right, even if others thought it was wrong.”

Kruse and Hunzeker did not actually disagree much on what was right. In debates and interviews with local outlets, the difference between their respective pro-growth agendas came down to particulars like the value of impact fees on new development (which, Kruse now points out, they didn’t diverge on that much). But once a candidate embraced the maximalist us-or-them mode of Trump — “You have no choice but to vote for me,” Trump told rallygoers in New Hampshire in summer 2019, or else “everything’s going to be down the tubes” — no election could be less than existential.

In August, Kruse beat Hunzeker in the Republican primary by nearly 15 points. His only opponent in the general election is a write-in candidate. Five days before the primary, Kruse shared an image of what appeared to be a Revolutionary War soldier on Facebook. The text on the image read: “2020 IS NO LONGER REPUBLICAN VS. DEMOCRAT. IT’S FREEDOM VERSUS TYRANNY.”

“I feel the same way about our race against the inner circle, deep state of Manatee County!” Kruse wrote alongside the picture. “Don’t let Ed and Carol control your lives!”

The panic and excitement attending Donald Trump have always shared an assumption: that his election marked a profound break with the American politics that came before it. During his inaugural address, as he surveyed the national landscape of “American carnage,” Trump himself invoked the advent of “a historic movement the likes of which the world has never seen before.” In the years and events that followed — the endless soap opera of the White House, the forceful separation of children from their families at the border, the pandemic, Trump’s refusal to permit even a passing interest in a peaceful transfer of power — it seemed increasingly clear that the world never had.

But for all the attention paid to what Trump represents in American politics, the most salient feature of his ascent within the Republican Party might be what he doesn’t represent. When Ronald Reagan overthrew the old order of the Republican Party in the 1980 election, he did so as the figurehead of a conservative movement that had been gestating since the 1950s, with an intellectual framework that William F. Buckley Jr. had been articulating for a quarter-century, with a policy blueprint provided by the Heritage Foundation and with a campaign apparatus that quickly pivoted to the task of converting the new constituencies he’d brought into the party to a base durable enough to build on. The total merger of his movement with his party didn’t happen immediately, but the key elements of it were in place by the end of his first term, and there was not much ambiguity about what the G.O.P., if it was transforming, was transforming into.

Trump’s takeover, by contrast, has been as one-dimensional as it has been total. In the space of one term, the president has co-opted virtually every power center in the Republican Party, from its congressional caucuses to its state parties, its think tanks to its political action committees. But though he has disassembled much of the old order, he has built very little in its place. “You end up with this weird paradox where he stands to haunt the G.O.P. for many years to come, but on the substance it’s like he was never even there,” said Liam Donovan, a Republican strategist.

During Trump’s presidency, his party has become host to new species of fringe figures. Laura Loomer, a self-identified #ProudIslamophobe and erstwhile Infowars contributor who has been banned from Twitter and Facebook, earned presidential praise — and a campaign-trail cameo from Trump’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump — for winning her Florida congressional district’s Republican primary in August. There is also Marjorie Taylor Greene, the party’s current nominee in the race for Georgia’s 14th district, whose embrace of the QAnon conspiracy theory and litany of racist, Islamophobic and anti-Semitic statements didn’t dissuade Trump from calling her a “future Republican star,” or Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republicans’ leader in the House, from pledging to give her committee assignments should she win in November.

But Trump’s influence is also reflected, in a more pedestrian but equally revealing way, in the ease with which George Kruse and others like him have transposed Trumplike signifiers onto otherwise utterly conventional suburban Republican platforms. Republican voters are essentially the same people who voted Republican before Trump; the party’s politicians are still mostly the same people, hiring mostly the same strategists. But their relationships to the party now flow through a single man, one who has never offered a clear vision for his political program beyond his immediate aggrandizement. Whether Trump wins or loses in November, no one else in the party’s official ranks seems to have one, either.

This is a far cry from the certainty with which those same officials regarded Trump nearly five years ago. In January 2016, Republican lawmakers gathered at a harborside Marriott in Baltimore for their annual conference retreat. Paul Ryan, then the speaker of the House, would preview his “Better Way” agenda, a collection of policy proposals addressing the economy, national security, the social safety net. In scheduled sessions, members would debate the finer points of the agenda that Ryan stressed would transform the G.O.P. from an “opposition party” to a “proposition party.” And in unscheduled interludes, they would consider how their party’s presidential primary could very well come down to a contest between a reality-television star, whom they hated, and Senator Ted Cruz, whom they also hated.

By the end of the retreat, many had privately agreed that the best way to achieve Ryan’s proposition-party ambitions in such a scenario was to nominate the candidate with the fewer proposals. As one Republican congressman explained to me at the time, when I was reporting on the conference for National Review Online, Cruz had his own “divisive” ideas (though in fact they were not so different from Ryan’s own). But with Trump, “there’s not a lot of meat there,” the congressman said. If Trump became the party’s candidate, he serenely predicted, he would “be looking to answer the question: ‘Where’s the beef?’ And we will have that for him.”

As it turned out, Trump wasn’t especially interested in running on Ryan’s “bold conservative policy agenda.” “Put a Stop to Executive Overreach” may have been a Better Way, but Trump believed the people — his people — would be more galvanized by a ban on all Muslim travel to the United States, which he first proposed the month before. (“Offensive and unconstitutional,” Mike Pence, then the governor of Indiana, tweeted of the ban at the time.) “It’s the party’s party,” Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, nevertheless repeatedly insisted through the summer of 2016. “The party defines the party.”

It was as though Priebus and others believed the G.O.P. to be some cosmic body animated by a logic undisclosed to humankind, rather than a collection of overgrown college politicos who worked in a building opposite a restaurant called Tortilla Coast and who had lost the popular vote in five of the last six presidential elections — in other words, an institution ripe for hijacking. Paul Ryan announced his retirement 15 months into Trump’s presidency (“We are with you Paul!” Trump tweeted shortly thereafter). Kevin McCarthy, then the House majority leader, told reporters about how his wife gave him an autographed copy of “The Art of the Deal” in the late 1980s while they were dating. Priebus went to the White House with Trump as the new president’s chief of staff, only to learn via Twitter six months into the job that he had been replaced. (“We accomplished a lot together and I am proud of him!” Trump said.) The R.N.C. is now run by Ronna Romney McDaniel, Mitt Romney’s niece, who dropped the “Romney” from her name in apparent deference to Trump. As the newly inaugurated vice president, Mike Pence applauded Trump’s early executive order banning half the world’s Shiite Muslims from entering the country.

This June, as Trump prepared for his second convention as the Republican presidential nominee, the party’s leaders decided to dispense with the fuss of a new platform altogether and simply readopted the 2016 platform. Never mind that the document contained some three dozen condemnations of the “current president” and “current administration” and “current occupant” of the White House; and never mind that it expressed full support for Puerto Rico’s statehood, which Trump had called an “absolute no.” Officials did, however, manage to draft a new preface: “The Republican Party,” it proclaimed, “has and will continue to enthusiastically support the president’s America-first agenda.” In Priebus’s parlance, the party had defined the party.

That this is no longer Paul Ryan’s party is clear. What Trump has turned it into, though, is less so. Republican lawmakers and officials now reflexively tout their proximity to Trump — like the “100 percent Trump voting record” that Senator Kelly Loeffler of Georgia claims in a recent ad. They reference “Trumpism” casually and constantly and accede that it will in some way dictate the future of the party. But they can’t seem to agree on what it actually is. “The party right now is just Trump, right?” said one senior Senate G.O.P. aide. “So when you take him out of it, what do we have left?”

When I asked even retiring or former members of Congress what the G.O.P. could be said to stand for today, few were willing to venture an answer on the record. Paul Ryan was “not doing interviews these days,” a former spokesman said. Lamar Alexander, the retiring Republican senator from Tennessee, was “more than glad to be in touch for future opportunities,” his spokesman told me. When I put the question to John Boehner, the former Republican speaker of the House, after a round of small talk, he said, “Hmm, no. I think I’ll pass on that one.”

“It’s national populism and identity-politics Republicanism,” Representative Justin Amash told me, and “it’s here to stay for a while.” It was early October, and Amash, who has represented Michigan in Congress since 2011, was sitting — maskless, but across the room — in his Capitol Hill office. Amash was a founding member of the House Freedom Caucus, a group of conservative Republican hard-liners, most of whom identified with the Tea Party movement, who came together out of frustration with the party’s congressional leadership boxing out the rank-and-file during the legislative process. The caucus became a right-wing media darling after one of its members, a backbencher from North Carolina named Mark Meadows, filed a motion to oust Boehner from the speakership in the summer of 2015. The vote on that motion never happened; Boehner announced his retirement that fall. But by then, the group had built out its ranks enough to thwart any piece of legislation in the Republican-led House.

“The main purpose of the Freedom Caucus was to open up the process and ensure all voices could be heard,” Amash told me. But its members were best known as trenchant conservative ideologues, preaching austerity and refusing to cede ground on social issues. During the 2016 presidential primary, its members were broadly, if obliquely, critical of Trump: “We need someone who will restore greatness to America, not as a talking point or a punchline, but someone who wants to restore constitutional values,” Representative Andy Harris of Maryland said after he endorsed Ben Carson. Others blamed the G.O.P. establishment for not doing more to stop Trump’s rise.

While the establishment transitioned with relative ease to the onset of Trump’s presidency, the Freedom Caucus, for a time, seemed to represent a potential thorn in its side. Many of the new administration’s policy ambitions — trade protectionism, a trillion-dollar infrastructure bill — were direct affronts to the stated values of the Tea Party crowd. “The conservatives are going to go crazy,” Stephen K. Bannon, chief executive of Trump’s campaign and an incoming White House adviser, crowed in a postelection interview.

It was common in the Freedom Caucus’s weekly meetings for members to mock Trump; “I can’t believe he’s only been bankrupt that many times,” one of its members quipped, according to Amash. In March 2017, the group’s unwillingness to fall behind Ryan’s first stab at an Obamacare replacement — which they rejected both for its substance and the closed-door process by which it was written — prompted Trump to excoriate its members on Twitter. “The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don’t get on the team, &amp; fast,” the president raged. “We must fight them, &amp; Dems, in 2018!”

Mo Brooks, a Freedom Caucus member from Alabama, was among Trump’s harshest critics during the primary, castigating Trump as a “notorious flip-flopper” with “huge character flaws” whose presidency would ultimately make his base regret voting for him. Brooks had cast his own ballot for Trump grudgingly: “You have to decide who is the lesser of the two evils,” he told a group of Duke University students at the time, “and then vote accordingly.”

There was still plenty to be unhappy about in Trump’s first year, like the health care debacle and Trump’s publicly excoriating — “waterboarding,” in Brooks’s words — Brooks’s fellow Alabamian Jeff Sessions, then Trump’s attorney general, for his recusal from the investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election. But Brooks found there was a lot more to like. “On border security, the president has been spot on,” he told me. He went on: “The president showed he would take the public-policy stances that, by and large, are supported by conservatives, and those who believe in the foundational principles that have combined to make America the greatest nation in world history.”

Brooks’s transformation is instructive insofar as he doesn’t see it as a transformation at all. The true conservatives hadn’t changed, Brooks insisted; Trump just surprised everyone by governing a lot like one. By 2018, Bannon was out, and by November the party’s leaders had major tax cuts and a slew of new conservative judges to show for their acquiescence. On the “moral value side of the coin,” Brooks said, “President Trump has been strongly pro-life.” On the economy, Trump “has fought hard for free enterprise, which is premised on freedom and liberty, and against socialism.” And after years of railing against the constitutional abomination of Barack Obama’s governing by pen, the Freedom Caucus members found that executive orders weren’t so bad when you liked what was in them, such as regulatory relief for companies in defiance of Obamacare’s contraception mandate. “I am fine with executive orders that do the right thing,” Brooks told me.

“I wish we had done better with deficit and debt,” Brooks allowed. But when pressed on this and other ways Trump had fallen short on either his own promises or longstanding conservative priorities in general, he invoked the same villains he might have in the Freedom Caucus’s heyday: special-interest groups and irresponsible party leaders. He’d been in meetings, he said, where he heard the president “expressing dissatisfaction with these huge deficits,” which, under Trump, have achieved record proportions. (And in any event, the former Freedom Caucus chairman Jim Jordan insisted to me recently, Trump is “going to focus on that in his second term.”) As for health care, Trump backed “Paul Ryan’s proposal to expand socialized medicine” only because he received “bad advice” from the “liberal wing” of the party (by which he meant Ryan and McCarthy). “Fortunately, Donald Trump, after listening to our conservative arguments, was persuaded that we were right, and our liberal wing was wrong,” he said. “That’s the mark of leadership. As you get information, you should change as that information requires. And President Trump did.”

Trump’s resolve to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court in October 2018, Amash says, dulled the remaining criticisms of the president in the Freedom Caucus — and the midterm elections a month later all but extinguished them. The Democrats’ rout of the Republicans in the 2018 House races was unequivocally tied to Trump’s unpopularity — according to exit polls, 90 percent of voters who disapproved of him voted for the other party in their local House race. But that fate fell upon pro- and anti-Trump Republicans alike.

At the same time, Republican primary voters’ devotion to Trump was such that even in the Senate, candidates who had criticized or otherwise distanced themselves from the president, like Dean Heller of Nevada, struggled to make it to the general election, backpedaling their criticisms and holding their breath until Trump’s blessing finally came via Twitter. Raúl Labrador, a founder of the Freedom Caucus, had all but nabbed Trump’s endorsement in the Republican primary for governor of Idaho when supporters of his main opponent, Brad Little, packaged together clips of Labrador bashing Trump in 2016 and delivered them to the West Wing. Today Labrador is back in the private sector. Little is now governor of Idaho.

All told, 26 congressional Republicans — some moderates, others facing stiff odds in the general election — decided to retire from politics in 2018, the party’s second-highest number in more than 40 years. “Republicans tried to steer clear of Donald Trump a little bit in that election,” Amash said. “They tried to avoid him as a topic. And they weren’t successful. And Donald Trump came back after that and said, ‘I told you so.’”

Some caucus members, meanwhile, seemed entranced by the proximity to power that loyalty afforded them. Mark Meadows, who became the Freedom Caucus chairman in January 2017, liked making a show of his ever-more-frequent phone calls with the president and liked ensconcing himself on weeknights in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel, the favored Washington haunt of Trump’s coterie of advisers and hangers-on. And as Trump proved ever more willing to attack his colleagues in the Freedom Caucus, Meadows seemed ever more willing to let him.

In 2018, Representative Mark Sanford, a Freedom Caucus member from South Carolina and a vocal Trump critic, lost a primary in which Trump endorsed his opponent. Later, Trump visited a House Republican conference meeting and proceeded to ridicule Sanford. Meadows did not come to his colleague’s defense. “It was a betrayal and an abandonment of someone who is part of our family,” Amash said. It was the only moment during our interview that he betrayed a sense of anger over the past four years. (Meadows declined to comment for this article.)

It was shortly after that that Amash gave his final speech to the group he helped start. “At some point, I didn’t feel like the Freedom Caucus was really producing what we had founded it for — precisely to push back on things like Donald Trump taking full control of government, you know, using the executive branch as a legislative branch, or Congress not doing its job as an oversight body,” he said. The caucus’s about face, he argues, is a useful way to grasp the extent of Trump’s takeover of the party. Such a takeover was not inevitable, he insists; the Freedom Caucus’s early willingness to stand up to Trump seemed to offer the hope of maintaining healthy debate and disagreement among Republicans under his presidency. “I was not even the fiercest critic, compared to some of the others,” he recalled of those early days.

In 2019, Amash left the G.O.P. to become an Independent. Earlier this year, he switched his party affiliation again to become the first Libertarian member of Congress, and after briefly considering and rejecting a third-party presidential candidacy this spring, he decided not to run for re-election. “Everything is about personalities now,” he told me. Trump didn’t start that trend, he pointed out, but he certainly accelerated it. “You can see changes in some of the senators, too — the way they are now trolling people on Twitter. This sort of disparaging of the left is different; it’s materially different from what we saw before Donald Trump.”

Congressional Republicans who have left the fold in the Trump years invariably attest to the private discomfort of their friends and former colleagues on Capitol Hill who remain in good standing with the president. “A healthy percentage of them want Trump to lose,” Jeff Flake, the former senator and congressman from Arizona and one of the 2018 cycle’s many Republican retirees, told me. “There are no illusions about where the party is going under Trumpism. This is a dead end. This is a demographic cul-de-sac. My colleagues know it. And they had higher aspirations, nearly all of them, than to approve the president’s executive calendar.”

The fact that these private expressions of despair have stayed private cannot be pinned on rabid primary voters alone. Ultimately, a great many in the party have quite enjoyed their time on the Trump train — as Mark Meadows, who is now Trump’s chief of staff, could attest. Yet for all the attention paid to loyalty as an ordering principle in today’s Republican Party, it’s not entirely clear what dividends it will pay in Trump’s absence.

Consider Mike Pence. The vice president has dutifully, even enthusiastically, taken on Trump’s critics and made the president’s many enemies his own, be they kneeling N.F.L. players or his own friends. In the spring of 2019, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the matter, the International Republican Institute, a nongovernmental organization that for more than two decades was chaired by Senator John McCain, tried to honor the vice president with its annual Freedom Award. But when the news made its way to Trump, along with word of the organization’s ties to McCain, he told Pence to turn it down, according to one of the sources. Pence did, and the award was given to Mitch McConnell instead.

“It’s been painful to see,” Flake, a friend of Pence’s since they served together as archconservatives in the House years ago, told me. “I had hoped that he would have influence on certain issues and could sway some things, because I trust where he is more than the president. But I haven’t seen that influence.” When I asked Flake if he and Pence had ever discussed what had become of their friendship, he said they hadn’t. “Mike is unfailingly loyal to the president.”

That Pence harbors ambitions for the presidency in 2024 is no great secret, and for a time, his devotion to Trump was his strongest claim to his mantle. “He stood by Trump in 2016, after the ‘Access Hollywood’ tape, when no one stood by Trump,” recalled one former Trump campaign official. Did Pence privately accept Reince Priebus’s offer to lead the ticket should Trump drop out? Well, sure, this campaign official acknowledged. (Pence denies this.) “But he did go out on national TV and defend Trump. Mrs. Pence didn’t want him to do that, but he still did it.”

But as fealty to Trump has become central to the Republican Party, Pence’s steadfastness no longer seems as exceptional as it did in late 2016. “Pence’s whole brand has been that he’s stayed loyal to the president, that he’s the O.G.,” one R.N.C. official told me. “Which is great, but what is there beyond that? He’s a late-’90s version of what a Republican primary voter wants. If you’re running a campaign, it has to be about the future.”

Of the 30 or so Republican officials I interviewed for this article, from the White House and the Trump campaign to Congress and the R.N.C., probably half of them laughed when I asked if they considered Pence the party’s heir apparent. “Pence is a very good — he’s a very good man,” the former Trump campaign official told me, as if offering a consolation prize. “A very good person.”

Pence’s plight illustrates a paradox peculiar to the Trump administration. The high-level Trump officials who seem most poised to seek higher office — the sort who, in a normal presidency, might be expected to perpetuate and advance the president’s legacy — are largely people who, like Pence, were brought in expressly because of how un-Trumplike they were, and as such seem obviously ill suited to carrying his torch. This bind was apparent in the speech that Nikki Haley, Trump’s former ambassador to the United Nations and a frequent vessel for the G.O.P.’s future hopes, gave at this year’s Republican National Convention. In 2015, in the aftermath of the mass murder of nine Black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., Haley, who at the time was governor of the state, unabashedly called for and oversaw the removal of the Confederate flag from the statehouse grounds. In her R.N.C. speech, she appeared to tiptoe around the episode by nebulously recasting it as the removal of a “divisive symbol” done “peacefully and respectfully.”

The idea that conventional Republicans like Pence and Haley can repackage themselves through Trump loyalty fails to reckon with the desire of many Trump voters to genuinely overturn the party’s status quo. Oren Cass, the domestic policy director of Mitt Romney’s 2012 campaign, argues that in 2016, Trump in some ways ran the most substantively policy-focused campaign of the Republican field, on trade policy, on immigration and “ultimately on how the market economy is serving people.” “Was he powerfully articulating that? No. But there was an opening for someone to do just that.”

Earlier this year, Cass founded a think tank called American Compass to offer a policy vision — reforming organized labor and “reshoring” supply chains, remedying failures in financial markets — to address the dissatisfaction with conservative economic orthodoxy that he believes Trump’s 2016 campaign indicated. In August, he hosted American Compass’s first live conversation, a remote interview with the junior senator from Missouri, Josh Hawley, billed as a discussion about the “empty platitudes and hypocrisy of ‘woke capital.’” The youngest current member of the Senate, Hawley, at age 40, has become a favorite among those in the conservative think-tank class who believe the lessons of Trump’s resonance are primarily ideological. “The old political platforms have grown stale,” Hawley told the audience at the inaugural National Conservatism Conference — an effort by the Edmund Burke Foundation, a new think tank, to map the contours of what might be called a post-Trump nationalism — in July 2019. He rebuked the American right for its celebration of “hyper-globalization,” its dogmatic affection for the free market.

The difficulty with engineering a new paradigm that builds on Trump’s 2016 win is that the president himself is not especially committed to it, and the numbers of those in his administration who are have dwindled. Trump’s presidency has not itself departed much from the substance of the old platforms — and not only because his party has not bothered to formally update them. For all of Bannon’s bold postelection talk, Trump’s White House ultimately came to resemble something much more traditionally Republican, pursuing a mostly conventional conservative agenda beneath its roiling surface noise of organizational chaos, casual racism and weird tweets about the “Suburban Lifestyle Dream.”

“I think it is obviously the case that certain facets of the administration’s policymaking became kind of very traditionally supply-side,” Cass told me. He said he has had “very constructive conversations” with staff members at the agency level who are receptive to both the conceptual arguments and policy ideas of American Compass. “But actually moving policy forward in an administration depends on the focus of the principal. And obviously there’s — I don’t think there’s sufficient focus from the top on actually developing and advancing a coherent agenda.” He acknowledged that Trump has in this way hurt the project he is credited with helping give life to. “It has put efforts to build a coherent and constructive foundation in the context of an administration that people are looking to to do that, but isn’t.”

It’s unclear, however, whether the “people” Cass was referring to include Republican voters — among whom Trump has consistently enjoyed an approval rating north of 75 percent in spite of any number of disappointing Infrastructure Weeks. Which may explain why, apart from a handful of senators like Hawley, Tom Cotton and Marco Rubio, ambitious Republican politicians aren’t scrambling to associate themselves with American Compass the way they might have with the Heritage Foundation in the Reagan years or the American Enterprise Institute during George W. Bush’s presidency.

Instead, they are much more likely to try to ingratiate themselves with Charlie Kirk, the 27-year-old founder of the right-wing student organization Turning Point USA. Kirk shot to prominence on the right in 2012, when, as a high school senior in Illinois, he wrote an article for Breitbart News arguing that high school teachers were indoctrinating students through liberal textbooks. He started Turning Point shortly after, and in the eight years since, he has transformed the group into a well-funded media operation, backed by conservative megadonors like the Wyoming businessman Foster Friess.

Turning Point’s political arm has worked diligently for Trump’s re-election; according to The Washington Post, its efforts have included hiring teenagers to amplify disinformation about the coronavirus pandemic and claims of voter fraud. Kirk himself has become close with the Trump family and earned retweet sprees from the president for his musings on the “Wuhan Health Organization.” A conference hosted by Turning Point at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in December attracted Senators Ted Cruz and Rand Paul, Jerry Falwell Jr., Kimberly Guilfoyle, the conservative talk-radio celebrity Mark Levin and the former “Bachelorette” contestant Josh Murray.

The conference, which at one point featured a dance routine by models representing an energy-drink company, was not Paul Ryan’s world of PowerPoints in Marriott ballrooms or Cass’s blizzard of white papers. Kirk’s rapid ascent has occurred more or less entirely outside the traditional professional apparatus in which conservative activists and intellectuals like Cass built their careers even a decade ago. It suggests how rapidly influence has shifted within the G.O.P. Politicians who want futures in the party now try to cultivate Kirk’s enormous audience, appearing on his podcast or speaking at Turning Point events. Privately, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is known to be exploring his own 2024 presidential bid, has tried to build a relationship with the right-wing activist as well; earlier this year, according to two people familiar with the matter, Pompeo invited Kirk to a get-to-know-you meeting. “I mean, four years ago I wasn’t even verified on Twitter,” Kirk told me. Today “there’s moments where you kind of realize, ‘Oh, wow, when I tweet something, it moves opinion.’ And that’s a cool thing.”

Kirk echoed Cass and others in his definition of what he calls the “MAGA doctrine” — challenging the Republican orthodoxy on trade, “open borders” and the corporate class. (“I love the idea space,” he told me.) But he argued that the one thing that truly unified the Republican base in its support of Trump was a belief that he was a “fighter.” “There’s an agreement in the conservative base nationwide that the last couple of decades has been this managed decline of center-right surrender, right? That we win elections, but we lose our country, and we seem OK with it.”

Trump, on the other hand, was willing to shut down the government for 35 days for a border wall — even if he caved in the end. “That really was a different type of Republican,” Kirk said. “We don’t forget that kind of thing in conservative circles.”

In September 2016, The Claremont Review of Books published an essay called “The Flight 93 Election,” by a pseudonymous author later revealed to be Michael Anton, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush’s National Security Council and Rudy Giuliani. The essay’s title was a reference to the passenger plane that crashed in a field in Pennsylvania on Sept. 11, 2001, after the passengers and crew tried to overcome the Al Qaeda terrorists who hijacked the aircraft. “2016 is the Flight 93 election: charge the cockpit or you die,” Anton wrote. “You may die anyway. You — or the leader of your party — may make it into the cockpit and not know how to fly or land the plane. There are no guarantees. Except one: If you don’t try, death is certain.”

Anton would later serve on the staff of Trump’s National Security Council, and four years later, his essay still reads as perhaps the most accurate summary of Trumpism. Anton’s only really specific ideological appeal in “The Flight 93 Election,” with its warnings about “the ceaseless importation of third-world foreigners with no tradition of, taste for or experience in liberty,” was ethnocentrism. Otherwise, the essay in some ways anticipated the ecumenical aspect of Trump’s Republican Party, its willingness to take all comers as long as they believe that Democratic governance is tantamount to playing “Russian roulette with a semi-auto,” as Anton described the prospect of a Hillary Clinton presidency. This premium on combativeness, on “fighting back” above all else, has, on one end of the spectrum, knocked down most of the barriers that at one time would have kept brazen conspiracy theorists at bay. And on the other end, it has made essentially normal Republican politicians present themselves as extremists, even in the least extreme of situations.

“I will tell you this: Donald Trump showed me something about running a serious campaign,” Mark Joe Matney told me. Matney, a 54-year-old former high school special-education teacher active in the local Republican Party in Washington County, Va., ran for county commissioner of revenue in 2019. He had noticed that in the slate of local positions up for re-election, two Democratic incumbents — the treasurer and revenue commissioner — were running unopposed. He decided the second position was a better fit for him; he has an M.B.A. from Averett University and a doctorate in organizational leadership from Nova Southeastern University.

As he prepared his bid, Matney recalled, he considered what the president’s example had taught him about politics. “You know, you can’t be nice and cordial to your opponent — you have to make him enemy No. 1. In other words, in a serious, competitive race, you can’t be nice to your opponent and win.” He later clarified: “I’m not saying I took it that far. But Trump takes it that far, and shows us you have to be tough to win an election.”

For Matney, being tough in the race to be the next chief of property assessment meant telegraphing to voters that the soul of the county was at stake. “In the local elections here, before Trump came along, they never said, ‘This is the Democrat, this is the Republican.’ They said, ‘This is John Doe running against Jim Doe.’ And I wanted to make sure that people understood that, no, local elections are not just about — ” He trailed off. “The party puts you on the ticket. And I wanted to distinguish that he was a Democrat, and I was a Republican.”

And not just a Republican. The yard signs that Matney began standing up throughout his southern Virginia county read: “Dr. Mark Matney: Trump Republican for Commissioner of Revenue.” The “Trump Republican” tag, he believed, told voters most of what they needed to know. That it may have told voters little about his ability to assess the county’s motor-vehicle tax was beside the point. “It was about the fact that my opponent gives money to a party that supports abortion,” he said. There was no need, he said, for the issues-laden brochures that local candidates dispensed in the past; rather, a business card that on one side reiterated his support for Trump and on the other said, “Go vote, or Democrats win,” would do the trick.

Like George Kruse in Florida, Matney doesn’t view Trumpism as any great ideological departure from the G.O.P. of, say, the George W. Bush era. But he stressed that were he running for this position 15 years ago, he wouldn’t have advertised himself as a “Bush Republican.” For Matney, a Bush Republican is a guy like Ed Gillespie, who lost the race for governor of Virginia in 2017 because he was “too nice” to Ralph Northam.

This was a curious point of reference: Gillespie was indeed the model of a Bush Republican, an R.N.C. chairman during Bush’s first term and a counselor to the president during his second. But during the gubernatorial race, he had tried to pocket his establishment résumé and stake his campaign on Trumplike positions: arguing to keep the state’s Confederate monuments in place, fulminating against “sanctuary cities” and accusing Northam in an ad of abetting the rise of the MS-13 street gang. In the end, he lost by nine points, owing to a decisive defeat in Virginia’s once-purple suburbs.

The conventional political wisdom was that Gillespie’s attempts to mimic the president served him poorly. But Matney insisted that the lesson of Gillespie’s crushing loss was that he didn’t go far enough. “He wouldn’t press the issues that separate us and wouldn’t attack the other side,” Matney said. “I watched a debate between Northam and Gillespie, and I was telling people, this is ridiculous. Oh, you go ahead and talk. Oh, I’m sorry, I interrupted you. I’m like, are you guys going to go outside and kiss after? I mean, it was terrible. It was the worst campaign I’ve ever seen in my life.” In November, Matney beat his own opponent, the 12-year Democratic incumbent, by six points.

“What Trump understood,” says the Republican consultant Jeff Roe, who ran Ted Cruz’s 2016 presidential campaign, “is that Republican voters have become more polarized but less ideological. A great number of them cared about some of the issues, but they didn’t want esoteric debates on trade policy, or, frankly, deficits or things like that either. They just wanted a politician to be on their side.”

There’s one way to interpret the party’s sudden receptiveness to policies like the child-care tax credit or coverage for pre-existing conditions, which is that voters are consciously urging their leadership toward a new ideological framework. The other interpretation, and the one Roe believes is correct, is that the Republican base today is willing to bend more on policy in service of what it believes to be a more existential war.

Roe leveraged this observation in Alabama’s Senate Republican primary this spring, running Tommy Tuberville’s campaign against Jeff Sessions, whose devotion to formalizing Trump’s instincts on trade, immigration and law and order was unmatched within the party. It was true that the former senator and attorney general was already loathed by much of the Republican electorate, even his ex-constituents in Alabama, for “letting down” the president. But Roe was most struck by the resonance of another attack, on Sessions’s vote to confirm President Obama’s pick for attorney general in 2009. “Jeff Sessions voting for Eric Holder?” he said. “Yeah, those days are over. If Jeff Sessions were a senator in 2024, he ain’t voting for Eric Holder.

“And I think that’s going to be a pretty critical component of the legacy of this presidency, be it four years or eight years,” he went on. “It’s: Are you willing to go to Washington and not cabal with the other side? Because they want somebody, above all, that’s going to fight the Democrats. They actually don’t really care often what you’re fighting about.”

Marc Hetherington, a political-science professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, says this is where efforts to “refine” Trumpism will very likely hit a wall, as they implicitly assume that Trump’s supporters see his “aggressiveness” as a distraction from his appeal rather than a key feature of it. Hetherington and his colleagues are in the early stages of research that suggests Trump’s most salient contribution to the party is in many ways apolitical. They’ve found that those who agree that only fighters are successful in life, or that the best strategy is to play hardball, even if it means being unfair, tend to prefer Donald Trump, while those who agree with statements like “cooperation is the key to success” tend to prefer Mitt Romney. “It’s not a partisan thing at all,” Hetherington told me. “It’s a worldview thing. And now, there’s a constituency in the Republican Party for that.”

On an evening in October, I drove to Johnstown, Pa., for one of the final rallies of Trump’s re-election campaign. On the edge of a parking lot outside a fire station a mile or so from the rally venue, I found dozens of people, huddled under blankets and Gap hoodies, holding their phones aloft. They were almost all white, many of them men and women in their 50s and 60s, others young families with children. A minute or two later, Air Force One sliced through the black sky. Its drone muffled the whoops and hollers that followed. These weren’t rallygoers, it turned out: They just wanted to see the plane.

“He has his base so energized,” Jeff Link, 65, told me, his cheeks flushed from the cold. “Look, we came just to get a mile away from him!”

Link and three friends had driven from a couple of towns over for this moment. What did Trumpism mean to them? I asked. “It means for the people,” Susan Datsko said. “We are for the people.”

“America first, absolutely,” Charlotte McFadden echoed. A retired nurse and lifelong Republican, she went on to describe the us-versus-them posture that Trump, to her, so revolutionarily embodied: “We have got to stop trying to save everybody in the world. Americans are very, very generous people. But we’re getting crushed. We just want people to come the right way; we welcome them just like our ancestors were welcomed. And we can’t help anybody if we can’t even help our own people. You have to help yourself before you can help others.”

Maybe others in the party before believed this, too; what made Trump special to them was his willingness to say it. “Not to be rude,” Rick Datsko said, “but the past Republicans never had any balls. They never stood up for Republicans. Look at Romney: Obama chewed him up.”

“We all understand he’s a little crude,” Link said.

“But crude is OK!” Datsko interjected.

Link went on: “We knew that he had no halo on his head,” he said. “We’re all like that a little bit. So we kind of identified with that. We understood.”

They struggled to articulate precisely what they wanted from the party whenever the post-Trump era commenced. Just more of this. “The same thing,” Datsko said.

“To continue along the same lines,” McFadden agreed. To perpetuate the euphoria coursing through still more parking lots nearby, the merchandise truck catering to “THE SILENT MAJORITY,” the expletive-laden T-shirts, the dozens of Trump flags whipping in the wind.

Still, an inchoate anxiety lurked behind the mania, a fleeting cognizance that for all their demands of more, nothing could ever match this. Even the thought of four more years brought its own strange layer of distress. Because if Trump wins, as Mark Matney explained to me, he can never run for president again. What happens, then, when it’s all over?

“My scary thought,” Matney said, “is where do we find another one like him?”





No.21 article:
Jona Frank: Between Reality and Fantasy

“In each project I am asking the same questions — about becoming and identity and how we find ourselves,” said Jona Frank, a Los Angeles-based photographer who has made a series of portraits of subcultures in American high schools, a British boxing club and a Christian college in Virginia.

Her new memoir, “Cherry Hill: A Childhood Reimagined,” part autobiographical text and part cinematic recreation of her upbringing in Cherry Hill, N.J., might appear to be a departure.

The photographs are staged with actors. The written narrative is as important as the images. And instead of exploring unfamiliar subcultures, she is excavating territory much closer to home: her own childhood. However, to Ms. Frank, “Cherry Hill” is a continuation of her artistic project, even if the starting point is different. “What I did was flip it on its side and say it was about me,” she explains. “But in another sense, all of my photographs are about me. Now I am revealing how all these other pictures fit into my story.”

Or, as Oscar Wilde wrote, “Every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter.”

The idea that led to “Cherry Hill” germinated in 2015. Coming to the end of her sojourn in the English town of Ellesmere Port, where she chronicled the exploits of small boys and young men who were training to box, Ms. Frank found herself thinking, despite the Liverpudlian accents, of her childhood in a New Jersey suburb of Philadelphia. The ubiquitous sound in the air of music from the 1980s amplified that feeling.

The aspiring boxers’ devotion to old-fashioned concepts of manliness, which she portrayed in the book “The Modern Kids,” reminded Ms. Frank of how her suburban mother endorsed with religious intensity a 1950s stereotype of femininity. Once she was back home in Santa Monica, Ms. Frank started writing stories about her early years, centered on the older woman’s devotion to standards that her only daughter, guilt-stricken but resolute, rejected in favor of constructing a life from the inside out.

“Cherry Hill” is a portrait of the artist as a young woman, coping with a mother’s struggles with depression and an older brother’s descent into schizophrenia. In high school, Ms. Frank discovered photography. “I often walked around and saw images,” she says. “I thought everybody did. When I found a way to make them tangible, that was a relief.”

Her passion for photography led her to study at the University of California on a scholarship. Uncertain of her path, she went home to Cherry Hill after graduation. But in 1990 she returned to Los Angeles, where she too became a wife and mother. Unlike her mother, however, she pursued her personal dreams, not others’ expectations.

The uncomfortable fit between societal norms and individual desires is a venerable photographic topic, explored most ambitiously by August Sander’s lifelong project, “People of the 20th Century,” in German portraits that subtly reveal the Procrustean process of social conformity. Each picture encapsulates a life, and collectively they depict a culture.

Ms. Frank, on the other hand, wrote about the experience of one family, complemented by staged pictures. The key casting choice was the woman to impersonate her mother. For that role, she recruited the actress Laura Dern, a friend. “We met years ago through our kids in school,” she says. “She doesn’t look anything like my mother. She’s tall. She’s blond. And then I saw her in a movie, ‘99 Homes.’ She’s falling in on herself and deeply unhappy. And I thought, ‘She could play my mother.’” Ms. Dern embraced the unorthodox enterprise.

They took a few photographs in 2016. “She’s incredibly smart and intuitive about where the camera should be and how to relate to the camera,” Ms. Frank recounts. “She said, ‘I’m going to go through all the actions but slow them down, and then hold the action so you could photograph.’ That helped set up the way I did the book.” Three actors stand in for Jona at different ages.

In a typical memoir, photographs are included to document the people and places that are discussed in the text. André Breton first subverted this convention in his Surrealist romance, “Nadja,” published in 1928, where the mysterious and unstable title character with whom he is obsessed never appears in a photo. Instead, the Parisian sites he visits, the writer friends he consults and the works of art he contemplates are reproduced in unremarkable pictures — a device that underscores both Nadja’s elusiveness and the uncanny strangeness of the banal and quotidian. More recently, W.G. Sebald also incorporated indistinct, boring photographs in his memoirs to achieve a similar effect.

But unlike those writers, Ms. Frank, 54, is primarily a photographer. In “Cherry Hill,” her own pictures constitute a fully equal component of the memoir, as artfully composed as the accompanying text. The images also convey the strain of maintaining an image. Ms. Dern is playing her mother, but her mother, too, was playing a role. By juxtaposing her recollections of an incident from her childhood with a photograph that shows how, in the innumerable “Kodak moment” snapshots of those years, such episodes were memorialized, Ms. Frank visually presents the theme of the narrative: the unrelenting striving for respectability that stifled both mother and daughter.

“In the suburbs, you had to present yourself, but the underside wasn’t as clean and shiny as the presentation,” Ms. Frank says. In her book, she recreated non-Kodak moments, the kind that were hidden rather than commemorated, such as scenes of her mother alone in quiet despair. While Ms. Frank escaped suburbia, her mother stayed. “She was not a person who believed she could have options,” Ms. Frank explains.

Aside from those private pictures that would not have been made, the photographer also endeavored to create pictures that she could not have made — images that represent her interior state as a child. As a means of conveying how trapped she felt, Ms. Frank photographed her young alter ego in a replica of her bedroom, standing at the window with her eyes closed and arms extended as the sunlight warms her face. The first time she saw the picture, she burst into tears. “The bedroom was incredibly accurate as to my childhood bedroom, but of course as a child I never saw myself do that,” she says.

Most of the family home in Cherry Hill — which Ms. Frank reproduced in a house near her Santa Monica residence that its owner lent her before its restoration — was wallpapered. In another photograph, the girl actor wears a shift made of the same toile de Jouy that covers the walls. Wearing a smile and a bouffant hairdo, the child in the photograph is the anti-Jona that Ms. Frank believes her mother wanted her to be, content to conform to her surroundings. (A witty, custom toile pattern, with cameras, boxers, crucifixes, clotheslines and other motifs from Ms. Frank’s life story, adorns the cover of the handsome book.)

Ambiguous by nature, photographs flutter indeterminately until pinned down with a caption. Drawing, by contrast, can be more definitive, especially when it incorporates a text. Ever since Art Spiegelman told his father’s Holocaust story in comic strip format in the groundbreaking “Maus,” which won a Pulitzer Prize in 1992, the graphic novel, combining word and image in a typical frame, has been a favored format for memoirists. Marjane Satrapi’s “Persepolis” and Alison Bechdel’s “Fun Home” are two impressive graphic novels by women who, like Ms. Frank, are recalling their younger selves.

A graphic novel possesses a directness that a photographer might envy. “Alison Bechdel’s books were guides to me for how you can tell a story in words and images,” Ms. Frank says. “I felt jealous of her ability to be able in the back of a frame to put an arrow and a Halloween mask, and it says, ‘Just left over from Halloween.’” A graphic novelist can call attention to such details that, without propelling the narrative, nonetheless enrich the story. “I can put something like that in a photograph and hope people notice, but I can’t put a little arrow,” Ms. Frank observes.

However, what a photograph-based memoir can do and a graphic novel cannot is conjure the aura of the movies, the magical domain of the silver screen where reality takes on the mystique of myth. In a new memoir, “Santa Barbara,” Diana Markosian’s fascinating restaging of her vexed relationship with her own mother, the photographer similarly employs actors. She also inserts screen shots of the television soap opera, “Santa Barbara,” that she watched in the former Soviet Union before her mother brought the family to Santa Barbara, Calif., to live with an American husband. At times, the family story in the real Santa Barbara outdoes the soap opera for melodrama.

Ms. Frank was searching for something that felt like a Hollywood romance from the fifties, not a daytime soap. Casting a movie star to play her mother fostered that illusion. But Ms. Frank says she wanted to go further, “to create images between reality and cinematic fantasy.” Her husband, Patrick Loungway, a cinematographer, suggested that she use an anamorphic lens to replicate the look of a CinemaScope film. The wide lens, in conjunction with theatrical lighting that varies from golden glow to incandescent glare, provides the sense of Hollywood transport and reverie she sought.

“Cherry Hill” resembles a dream, because like any artist, the young Jona was a dreamer. That gave her the power to escape the confines of Cherry Hill and suburban womanhood that her mother never left behind.





No.22 article:
Whitewater Unions, and a Toobin-Like Bathroom Mistake

Send questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, or a request to remain anonymous. Letters may be edited.

Everyone deserves to work in a safe, equitable environment. It can be challenging to start a union in a nontraditional workplace, but it has been done. In 1996, for example, the women who worked at the Lusty Lady strip club formed a union to protect themselves against unfair labor practices. A year later, they signed a contract affording them better pay, sick leave and other concessions.

You may not be organizers, but you can and must develop those skills if you want to create a union and make it successful. The benefit of a union is the power of the collective, so first you need to talk to your co-workers to gauge their interest, figure out what you all want, and encourage as many of them as possible to join together in the effort. In most cases, a majority of employees must agree to participate. Once your union is formed, you can begin to negotiate a contract with your employer and, hopefully, create a better working environment.

This sounds simple, but it isn’t. Most private employers will do everything in their power to thwart attempts at unionization. Not everyone you work with will want to join. And the biggest factor may be whether you are all considered traditional employees or independent contractors. Your legal rights change depending on the definition, and so do your employer’s obligations. I do wish you the very best with your efforts and hope your employer embraces this collective action.

One of the strangest aspects of this new normal is that our homes have now become our workplaces. Our colleagues now know far too much about our personal lives and the spaces in which we spend our time. They have access to intimacies we normally only share with our families and partners. When the lines between home and work are so blurred, accidents will happen.

I assume you weren’t trying to force your colleague to watch you use the bathroom because of some urinary kink. You were trying to multitask. This is embarrassing but harmless. I would pretend this didn’t happen and move on. You have no idea what she saw and to bring it up now would only make things unnecessarily awkward. Next time you absolutely have to go during the workday, triple-check that your audio and video are both off. Or, simply excuse yourself and leave your laptop where you work.

You are being way too hard on yourself. You cannot single-handedly save New York museums — nor its restaurants or bookstores or galleries or coffee shops. Each of us can try to support as many local businesses as we realistically can, but the economic problems that businesses are facing cannot be solved by individual patronage. The crisis is a systemic issue that must be addressed by our city, state and federal governments.

Like most people, I miss going out, having a social life, spending hours in museums, going to movies and plays. I miss travel. I miss sitting in a bookstore with a new book I love so much I read half of it right there before buying it. We all miss the way things used to be. We all hope the places we love the most will make it through the pandemic. A great many of us are supporting as many GoFundMe campaigns as we can. We’re buying gift cards. We’re tipping extra when we get takeout. And despite these well-intentioned efforts, a lot of businesses and institutions we frequent and care about aren’t going to make it.

Nearly 250,000 people have died, and we have no clear sense of how high the toll will ultimately go. The truth of this moment is horrifying. We all need to grapple with it and recognize, as you note, that we can only do so much. Does this mean we surrender to apathy? No. You have to figure out how much risk you’re willing to tolerate. If you cannot bring yourself to visit a museum, consider buying a couple of memberships to use when there’s a vaccine. Give memberships as holiday gifts. Buy something from your favorite museum’s gift shop. But whatever you do, wear a mask when you leave your home, socially distance — and be more gentle with yourself.





No.23 article:
Meet the Ebony Anglers, Five Black Women Catching Fish and Stares

The team, formed in the past few months, is trying to make a mark in the mostly white, mostly male world of competitive fishing.

ATLANTIC BEACH, N.C. — The shooting stars that illuminated the dark sky on the journey to deeper waters had given way to a crisp morning when Gia Peebles felt her fishing rod tense.

She gritted her teeth. Her adrenaline surged. She braced herself, gripped her rod tighter and started reeling, all while fighting the waves and current. After a few minutes of coaxing, she spotted rainbow scales glistening on a king mackerel as it neared the water’s surface.

Captain David Stone hooked the hefty fish, plucking it from the ocean and plopping it onto the Cay Sea May’s deck. Cheers erupted. Peebles exhaled.

“Look at him, he’s a fatty,” Tiana Davis said.

“He is a fatty,” Bobbiette Palmer said. “That’s your name: Fatty.”

Fatty mounted a final stand, furiously flopping. “Tell ’em what you’re talking about,” Lesleigh Mausi said. “Tell ’em why you’re mad.”

Soon, the 26-foot boat raced back to shore with the group’s haul to be weighed in at Chasin’ Tails Outdoors Bait &amp; Tackle. The Atlantic Beach King Mackerel Fishing Tournament had stretched for three weeks. But this, the final day of the tournament, marked the first time that the Ebony Anglers could sync their schedules and sink their lines together.

As the women walked from the dock to weigh in, a few bystanders cast curious glances their way. It was probably the first time any of them had come across a team of all Black women in the mostly white, mostly male world of competitive fishing.

It’s one reason Peebles, 49, formed the team. She did not fish until she met her husband, William Peebles, a couple of decades ago. But in college, she competed in the World Series four times after becoming the first Black woman to earn a softball scholarship at Cal State Long Beach. So the mix of relaxation and spurts of intense focus in competitive fishing appealed to her.

In June, Peebles noticed a swarm of activity near a pier where she and her husband own an Emerald Isle condo. She watched as teams disembarked after competing in the Big Rock Blue Marlin Tournament. Some women exited the boats, but all of them, Pebbles noticed, appeared to be white. Many Black people, Peebles said, are not exposed to the nautical lifestyle, and the high cost of entry to competitive fishing is a significant deterrent.

She first called Mausi, 47, a longtime friend, about collaborating. The two had fished casually a few times, and Mausi’s father was a professional angler.

Just the thought gave Mausi goose bumps. She brought along Davis, 44, who also had fishing experience. They next asked Glenda Turner, 56, a nail technician at Peebles’s beauty salon, to join.

Palmer, 37, a model Peebles knew from styling her hair, rounded out the team. She initially laughed when Peebles asked her about fishing, thinking Peebles was joking. But Palmer agreed, deciding that she wanted to get out of isolation during the pandemic and try something new.

“We instantly developed a bond,” Palmer said. “We’re all organized in our own ways, and we fill each other’s gaps. Our strengths and weaknesses, they complement each other.”

Palmer’s previous boating experiences consisted of a couple of cruises that left her sick. Turner offered her a motion sickness patch, and Palmer pushed through early stomach-churning outings with the team.

By July, the team had entered its first tournament, the Carteret Community College Foundation’s Spanish Mackerel &amp; Dolphin Tournament in Morehead City. That weekend, the Ebony Anglers caught a 48-pound king mackerel to claim first place in the division. (The fish, however, was listed at just 43.06 pounds on a hand-printed board naming the top finishers.)

“It just catches some off guard that here we are,” Peebles said. “We’re not only female, but we’re Black. We’re competing and we’re doing it well. We’re actually winning.”

Fatty was their largest catch at the Atlantic Beach King Mackerel Fishing Tournament, weighing 29 pounds. The winning team, Pirate’s Pleasure, topped the leaderboard with a catch of 41.61 pounds. The Ebony Anglers did not place, though the team took solace in knowing it had competed much less than many of the 150 other boats.

After weigh-in, Peebles and her husband took some of the fish to a market for filleting. They caught a nap before the team reconvened for the tournament’s awards banquet. For the first time, the Ebony Anglers met some of the other competing teams.

Kelly Albritton, a former bail bondsman in Kinston, N.C., claimed third place in the tournament with a 39.51-pound king mackerel. He said he recognized the Ebony Anglers from the weigh-in and introduced himself while clutching his trophy.

He said he couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw the group of Black women.

“I saw y’all go by and I said, ‘Go to hell!’ I said: ‘There are those girls. I have to come over there and say hi.&#x27; I wanna know the story.”

The women described their backgrounds, how the team had formed, how they had fared during the tournament.

“Twenty-nine?” Albritton, his mouth hanging open, asked with excitement when they told him the size of Fatty.

“This country belongs to all of us, and I’m just really glad you gals are here. I’m so excited that y’all are into fishing,” he said.

At one point in life, Mausi said, she would have taken offense to being referred to as “girl” or “gal.” Here, she said, most people know one another. Outsiders will draw double takes, especially a fishing team of Black women.

“I think I have to meet people where they are,” said Mausi, who is from Detroit. “I felt good that he came and addressed us and just wanted to know more. And I think that that is what is going to be the turning point in our country, when people of different cultures aren’t afraid to approach one another and just say, ‘I want to learn more about you.’”

A man from California sent a voice mail message saying he wanted to take the team out to dinner and talk fish. Several women have sent messages, inquiring about becoming part of their team.

“You can’t just join the Carolina Panthers,” Mausi said, referring to the N.F.L. team. “We’re not a club. We really want people to understand this is a sport. We’re athletes, and we’re competitive.”

They hope to use the tournament as a tuneup to compete in next year’s Big Rock Blue Marlin Tournament, where Peebles envisions her journey coming full circle.

“Hopefully, people are seeing us step into an arena that’s normally considered to be dominated by white males and it can inspire others,” she said. “Hopefully, we are making an impact on a lot of people, and people of color and, in particular, women of color to know they can step out of their box and do something that they never thought that they could do.”





No.24 article:
When Parents Lose Their Jobs, Their Children Also Suffer. But Sometimes There’s a Consolation.

The sudden increase of time with their children has reminded some low-income parents of what they have been missing. “It’s an odd silver lining, but it’s there,” says Jane Waldfogel, a professor at the Columbia School of Social Work.

In six months without steady work, Gregory Pike, a single father in Las Vegas, has fallen behind on his rent and utilities, borrowed money he cannot repay, turned to food stamps and charity, and fretted that his setbacks may cloud his daughter’s future.

Research dating to the Depression warns that parental unemployment places children at risk: When finances fall and adult tensions rise, young people tend to do worse in school and suffer psychological strains, reducing their prospects for adult success.

But despite the problems he has experienced since March, when the coronavirus eliminated his job, Mr. Pike has found an unexpected consolation: time with his 6-year-old daughter, Makayla, whom he has raised alone for three years.

“As much as this pandemic has brought me some hardship and uncertainty, it’s kind of a blessing — it’s let me focus more on parenting,” Mr. Pike said. “It’s bad but it’s also been good. It’s really brought us a lot closer.”

With parental unemployment having recently hit a record peak, the risks to children are formidable. Nearly 22 percent of children had an unemployed parent in April, the highest rate on record, according to Zachary Parolin, a researcher at Columbia University who analyzed data at the request of The New York Times. By August, the rate had fallen nearly in half, but still approached the peak of the Great Recession and was much higher among Black and Latino children.

No place has felt the impact more deeply than Las Vegas, where in recent months the share of children with an unemployed parent has averaged nearly 36 percent. Accompanied by school closures and fear of contagion, the scars left by parental joblessness now may run uniquely deep.

“These levels of unemployment are huge,” said Jennie E. Brand, a sociologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. “There’s a lot going on in these families that’s going to be hard to recover from.”

In recent interviews, Las Vegas parents echoed the experts’ view that their joblessness posed risks to their children. But like Mr. Pike, many also said they had found rewards in the extra family time, as if newly realizing how little of it had been available in their earlier, overscheduled lives.

“Work-life conflict” is often discussed as a problem of the privileged classes, but low-wage workers may suffer it most, with unpredictable hours, less help with chores like cooking and cleaning and little economic choice. The sudden increase of time with their children has reminded some low-income parents of what they have been missing.

“You know, I’ve gotten to know my kids a lot more,” said Aileen Kelly, a single mother of five who lost her job as a casino housekeeper at the pandemic’s start. “When you’re working, you don’t get the real feeling of raising your kids. You’re providing for them but you’re not teaching them.”

Such rewards do not reduce the risks that unemployment brings — Ms. Kelly has doubled up with a friend, in an apartment with 10 children — but they do offer a window into an overlooked strain on the lives of poor families.

“No one’s saying that families would choose to be unemployed, but I think we forget how short of time low-income families are — short of time, short of money and often short of sleep,” said Jane Waldfogel, a professor at the Columbia School of Social Work. “If people are telling us they don’t have enough time with their children, that’s worth listening to. It’s an odd silver lining, but it’s there.”

Research on parental unemployment is abundant, detailed and mostly concerning. Studies have found that, compared with peers, children with jobless parents on average experience lower test scores, more school suspensions, increased likelihood of repeating a grade, lower high school graduation rates, lower college attendance, lower adult earnings and a greater adult reliance on public aid.

“Even when the parents get re-employed quickly, you still see negative effects,” Ms. Brand said.

Lost income offers one explanation, making it harder for families to afford everything from food to Little League. Elevated stress offers another, increasing the risk of parental depression or harsh parenting.

Generally, men are more susceptible than women to the lost self-esteem that unemployment can bring, making jobless fathers the greater threat to family harmony, Ms. Brand found in a review of unemployment research. Poor workers face greater economic risks, she found, but affluent workers are more likely to feel unemployment as a blow to their identity.

The risks unemployment poses to children may depend in part on the safety net, which was significantly expanded at the start of the pandemic but is now contracting.

When Maria Guerrero, a single mother in Las Vegas, lost her job at an airline caterer in March, her unemployment benefits were delayed for two months. Worried about losing her house, she found herself sniping at her 14-year-old daughter.

“You get anxiety, you get depression, you don’t sleep at night, thinking what if they kick me out?” she said. “I was so frustrated I would take it out on my daughter. She goes, ‘You’re always in a mood, you’re always mad.’”

When the benefits arrived, they fully replaced her salary through July, and the household conflict ended. “The relationship got better when I started making my payments again,” Ms. Guerrero said. “We eat together, we’re bonded. This pandemic — it made us closer.”

Three researchers at the University of Chicago — Ariel Kalil, Susan Mayer and Rohen Shah — recently found that government aid had reduced the harm of unemployment during the pandemic. They surveyed nearly 600 low-income single mothers before and after the crisis began.

Parents who lost jobs reported greater depression and stress and more negative interactions with their children — but only if their income declined. Jobless parents who replaced their income, through government aid or second earners, experienced no negative effects. If anything, those parents reported that their interactions with their children had improved.

“Parents really prize their time with their kids, and the support allowed them to enjoy it,” Ms. Kalil said. “Their normal lives are stressful, and having that paid time off is salutary for their mental health.”

Yet even without aid, some Las Vegas parents found satisfaction in the family time their involuntary joblessness brought. Ms. Kelly, the casino housekeeper, became all but homeless after losing her unemployment benefits (for reasons she does not understand), but has had more time for a disabled son and a daughter who was cutting herself. “She wasn’t getting my attention because I was at work,” Ms. Kelly said. “I see a big difference.”

“We can’t live like this forever,” Ms. Kelly added. “I have to go back to work.”

The April rate of parental unemployment — 21.7 percent of children had unemployed parents — shattered the previous monthly record of 16 percent from January 1983. At this year’s peak, that was about 16 million children.

“That’s really an alarming number,” said Mr. Parolin, the Columbia researcher. “Even if parents quickly return to work, I wouldn’t underestimate the psychological toll unemployment takes, particularly in the context of the pandemic.”

Parental unemployment varies greatly by race, with the August levels among Black children (16.2 percent) and Latino children (14.3 percent) nearly twice that of white children (8.3 percent). Likewise, unemployment is much higher among less-educated workers than college graduates, and higher among mothers than fathers, reversing a trend toward gender equity in work rates.

“With schools out, it’s more often mothers who stay home from work,” Mr. Parolin said.

Parental unemployment exceeded a five-month average of 20 percent in a dozen major metropolitan areas, including New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Boston, San Francisco, Detroit and Orlando. Recent Census Bureau surveys showed that households with a jobless parent were about twice as likely as others to miss rent payments or lack sufficient access to food.

In annual terms, previous peaks of parental unemployment came in 1982 (15.3 percent of children) and 2009 (13.2 percent), but the current crisis is more complex.

“We’ve never had a recession that brings with it this major interruption in schooling as well,” said Ann Huff Stevens, an economist at the University of Texas. “It’s hard to see how that won’t make the impact of unemployment even worse.”

A recent questionnaire from The Times, distributed by Fresh EBT, a smartphone app that helps people manage their food stamp benefits, asked parents how the pandemic had affected their relationships with their children. Many simultaneously lamented the lost income but praised the increased family time.

“We are struggling financially, but we have grown closer,” a North Carolina mother wrote.

“We love time together but I am a single parent and need work,” a Washington parent wrote.

“We have benefited having more time together but not having money is not good,” a single mother in Michigan wrote. “I’m being evicted.”

When Mr. Pike, the Las Vegas single father, described his months of unemployment, he offered competing narratives, with no pat resolution.

One is the classic story of falling income and rising strain. When the pandemic broke out in March, Mr. Pike, 41, lost a job building booths for trade shows. Unable to collect unemployment aid (the state is disputing a previous claim), he borrowed from a bank, exhausted his savings and found a few odd jobs but still fell behind on utilities and rent. Sometimes he eats less to make sure his daughter gets fed.

Obliged to supervise Makayla’s online kindergarten class, Mr. Pike has less time to leave home and search for jobs. After five bill collectors and the bank called one morning — he was overdrawn — he lost his temper and sent her to her room for flubbing her ABCs.

“I had to catch myself and go in there and apologize,” he said. “She gets the short end of the stick sometimes. It’s stressful not knowing where you next dollar is coming from.”

But Mr. Pike also said the break from the job has allowed him and Makayla to grow closer. He prizes the relationship all the more because his own childhood lacked close parental ties. He rarely saw his father and said his mother turned to abusive men. Mr. Pike said he dropped out in ninth grade and spent a decade in prison for assaulting one of her boyfriends. He missed most of Makayla’s first three years while serving a second sentence, for drugs, and then got custody.

“I came out on a mission to get her,” he said. “She gave me a purpose in life.”

Prepandemic, father-daughter life began with a 4:30 alarm — work, school, dinner, bath, bed. “We get to be like robots,” he said. Now he and Makayla are all but kindergarten classmates. “We have little conversations, more and more every day. We’ve grown so much from this.”

On a recent day, the air conditioning broke and the indoor temperature hit 98. Mr. Pike was juggling ABCs and a calls from collection agencies. He sounded weary.

“Don’t get me wrong — I can’t wait to get back to work,” he said. “I’m stressed out about my bills. But watching her progress as a little person is amazing. It’s not a bad thing that we’re spending a little time with our families.”





No.25 article:
The ‘Wall’ Is Still Motivating Voters. But This Time Is It Against Trump?

YUMA, Ariz. — It might be seen as a monument to the massive changes the Trump administration has brought to the country’s immigration system. Or it could be seen as a reason people are fighting fiercely to vote him out.

Four years ago, President Trump promised voters he would build a big, beautiful wall. Whether the 30-foot, dark brown, steel fence towering over the sandy borderlands here is considered new, or beautiful, depends on one’s perspective. But it certainly is big.

And it is a tangible example of how radically Mr. Trump has tried to make good on his promise to transform the immigration system, even if most of the changes have little to do with any physical barrier.

In 2016, immigration was among the most defining aspects of Mr. Trump’s campaign. The idea of a border wall and the hard-line policies against asylum-seekers and undocumented migrants that it represented, helped sweep Mr. Trump into the White House. Four years later, the issue has taken a back seat, not only to the pandemic, but to protests over racial equity. The “build the wall” chants that reliably fired up the crowds at Trump rallies in 2016 has been replaced in large measure by rhetoric about “law and order.”

It’s not as if Mr. Trump has shunted the issue of immigration aside entirely. Department of Homeland Security officials recently stood under a stretch of the border barrier in McAllen, Texas to promote the near completion of 400 miles of border wall, most of it replacing or upgrading existing barriers. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have held news conferences and purchased billboard advertisements to draw attention to what are typically routine arrests.

And Stephen Miller, the chief architect of the administration&#x27;s immigration policies, recently outlined a second-term agenda that would include more limits on migrants seeking asylum and further expanding travel bans, blocking entry for citizens from some countries.

Immigration is, after all, the policy where the Trump administration has arguably had the most impact, and it has been an area that keeps his base committed. But, as indicated by his closing rallies — where immigration gets relatively little attention compared to policing and coronavirus restrictions — the issue may not be the strong motivating factor for Trump supporters as it was in 2016. In the key battleground state of Arizona, for example, the voters most focused on immigration are those who are terrified by the prospect of a second term for Mr. Trump.

“Everything has changed now,” said Regina Romero, the Democratic mayor of Tucson whose parents emigrated from Sonora, Mexico, with her older siblings. “But if anything, it has made the public sentiment shift in our favor. People here understand that we need people to come from Mexico to fuel our economy. People here understand more and more that this is about a strength, not a threat.”

Kassie Waters, a 33-year-old medic in Tucson, said that four years ago, immigration was close to the top of her list of most important political issues. But this year, the mother of three, whose husband works as a police officer, said she is more concerned about “rioters, looters and police officers being prosecuted for doing their jobs.”

“Four years ago, my concerns were totally different — immigration was a big one,” said Ms. Waters, who attended a recent book signing with Joe Arpaio, the former Maricopa County Sheriff who championed draconian immigration policies. Ms. Water, who voted for the president in 2016 and plans to do so again this year, said that Mr. Trump is still backing law enforcement by focusing on cities rather than the border and said she had no problem that “the issue of immigration has been put on the back burner.”

Many Latino families in Arizona have mixed immigration status — undocumented immigrant parents, for example, who raise children who have received DACA or who are U.S.-born citizens. Putting immigration on “the back burner” is not an option for them. In the southern part of the state, many families have for generations routinely gone back and forth over the border, living a kind of binational life.

And many young Latino voters formed their own political identity in the wake of anti-immigration sentiments in the early 2000s, and the issue remains resonant.

“This isn’t some abstract concept for us, some theoretical attack — this is something that impacts the way the world sees us, the way we are treated,” said Graciela Martinez, 34, who works in marketing in Phoenix. “We’ve had to fight for everything we have, and we have to keep fighting.”

For decades, immigration has undeniably shaped politics in Arizona.

It was here that a group of anti-immigration vigilantes formed the Minutemen militia along the border in the early 2000s. As the Maricopa County Sheriff, Mr. Arpaio implemented his own anti-immigration raids, which he claimed were designed to sweep up those living in the country illegally. And in 2010, the State Legislature passed Senate Bill 1070, which allowed local law enforcement to detain anyone suspected of living in the country illegally. Critics called the legislation sanctioned racial profiling and it was later struck down by the courts.

Since then, Americans’ attitudes have shifted significantly. In the years since Mr. Trump took office, voters have grown markedly more positive on immigration. In a June Pew Research Center poll, 28 percent of Americans said illegal immigration was a big problem, down from 43 percent last year. That included less than half of Republicans, compared to two-thirds the previous year. .

Pew survey data in recent years has also shown that ICE stands as the country’s least popular agency. Pew regularly asks Americans for their opinion on a range of federal agencies, and almost every one tends to get a positive rating. But in a poll this spring, for the third year in a row, ICE was the only exception: Americans were divided in their opinion, 46 percent favorable and 45 percent unfavorable.

And the partisan division is notable: Seventy-seven percent of Republicans gave ICE a positive rating, while just 28 percent of Democrats did. No other agency had nearly as stark a split.

On the left, the fight against “kids in cages” — referring to the Trump administration’s 2018 policy of separating migrant children from their parents — has been something of a rallying cry for critics. Activists believe the policy has changed the 2020 landscape.

“Family separation means that there was an issue everybody cared about, from a human rights perspective, and it gives us completely different political terrain, which is really significant,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, a Democratic activist and chair of We Belong Together, the National Domestic Workers Alliance immigration reform campaign. “We galvanized a ton of people. We have used people’s anger to make them understand that the way we treat our most vulnerable is related to who they elect.”

In Tucson, Mayor Romero knows immigration is a deeply personal issue for many voters here. At a rally with Senator Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, in Tuscon this past week, Ms. Romero referred to the border barrier as “the wall of hate,” and has repeatedly criticized the environmental impact of the new construction and deaths along the border. Still, Ms. Romero is optimistic about Democrats’ chances in the state, where Latinos are expected to make up at least 25 percent of all voters for the first time.

For supporters of Mr. Trump, however, the administration’s immigration policies have created a kind of fierce loyalty. The union for the Customs and Border Protection gave Mr. Trump its first presidential endorsement in 2016 and did so again this year, convinced that the president has done what others have shied away from.

“The morale is higher, it is much higher because border patrol agents feel like they have an administration that actually cares,” said Brandon Judd, the president of the union and an ally of Mr. Miller. “At the end of the day, border patrol agents want to feel like they are productive; they want to feel like they’ve made a difference.”

For the most part, Mr. Biden and other Democrats have defined their own policies by what they are not — promising an end to family separations, an end to draconian asylum policies, an end to the travel ban — rather than what they are.

After news broke earlier this month that several hundred migrant children who had been separated from their parents at the border had not been reunited with their parents, the topic of family separations surfaced during the last presidential debate. Mr. Biden has said he would end the practice and has vowed to work to reunite families.

But deportations also skyrocketed under the Obama administration, and immigration activists eventually dubbed the former president the “deporter in chief.” And while Mr. Biden has tried to distance himself from those policies, he is certain to face pressure to address the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants now living in the United States should he win the presidency.

“Frankly speaking, immigrants are not a priority for the Democrats,” said Pablo Alvarado, who has helped campaign for Mr. Biden in several battleground states and is the executive director of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network “We’re more of a priority for the Republicans for the wrong reasons — to attack us, to stigmatize us, to persecute us.”

Still, he added: “This time around, we are not going to be so polite, because otherwise what happens is exactly what happened the last time — they decide to do many other things first. We’re going to have to be a little more aggressive this time. At this point, what other choice do we have?”





No.26 article:
The Friendships Trump Pulled Apart

His corrosiveness has caused friends to lose trust.

Many of my oldest friends are voting for President Trump on Tuesday.

They’re supporting Trump despite the arguments my pundit colleagues and I have been making — or perhaps because of them. My pro-Trump friends and readers complain that the mainstream media are biased against Trump, and thus they tune us out for being unfair and piling on.

“The picture painted by the media is a caricature of the person,” said my high school buddy Dave Richardson, who voted for Trump warily in 2016 but is supporting him enthusiastically this time.

The conundrum for those of us trying to change minds is that the more urgently we shout, the less we’re heard. “We’re not stupid, gullible sheep,” one reader, Frank J., complained. “Be fair and balanced in your reporting and it would have more power.”

My childhood friend Mary Mayor likewise supported Trump and is turned off by coverage that she regards as hostile. “I’ve never known a president who has gone through so much scrutiny, overlooking all the positives he has done,” she told me.

I understand why people like Mary voted for Trump. The loss of well-paying jobs devastated places like my hometown, Yamhill, Ore. Mary spent seven years homeless, lost four relatives to suicide, and herself once put a gun to her own head, before she pulled herself together with the help of a local church. Trump talked about bringing jobs back and helping ordinary workers — so she voted for the first time in her life, for Trump.

“We hoped Trump would help boost the economy and jobs,” my old friend Jani Sitton said, explaining her vote for Trump in 2016.

The challenge for opponents of Trump like myself is that our denunciations of the president sometimes backfire and help him, just as polls suggest that impeachment increased support for him (Gallup shows him with his highest presidential approval numbers after being impeached). As Jani said: “The condescension from very loud and aggressive Trump critics has contributed big time toward conservatives feeling sympathy for him.”

So in my last column before Election Day, let me explain as respectfully as I can why I’m so worked up about this election.

It’s partly because I believe that Trump is a charlatan who preys on my friends who trust him. Trump’s own sister has said he is a liar with “no principles,” and his former chief of staff Gen. John Kelly reportedly referred to him as “the most flawed person” he has known.

So if I’m passionate, it’s because I feel he has exploited my friends and then betrayed them with his policies.

How can a president be called “pro-life” when he has presided over the deaths of more than 225,000 Americans from Covid-19 and still doesn’t have a strategy to fight it? Trump is also working to take away health insurance from my friends: Already, the number of Americans with health insurance has dropped by 5.2 million since Trump took office, and he is trying to completely overturn the Affordable Care Act right after the election.

I’m a great believer in community, in the idea that what makes countries strong is “social capital” — the web of relationships, beliefs, trust, decency and identity that make a society work. Trump has taken this social fabric and acted as the Great Unraveler.

He replaces accepted facts with lies, baseless accusations, support for QAnon and even a conspiracy theory that President Barack Obama had SEAL Team 6 killed instead of Osama bin Laden. In both supporters and opponents, Trump nurtures hate. He is what Proverbs 6:19 calls “a person who stirs up conflict in the community.”

Trump has been a corrosive acid on America’s social capital. He has cost us trust. He has dissolved our connectivity.

I understand now why kindergarten teachers sometimes want to remove a loudmouth bully who disrupts the class and leaves it dysfunctional. That is what Trump has done to our democracy.

For much of my career, I’ve written about national security, from Afghanistan to North Korea, China to Iran. But great nations more often rot from within than suffer defeat from outside, and Trump is exacerbating longstanding divisions and weaknesses in this country.

So to those who think I suffer from “Trump Derangement Syndrome,” let me explain — with respect, but also urgency — that my intensity arises because I see Trump as not just a phony but also a threat. He has left the United States a more turbulent and divided nation, one close to war with itself.

Today the greatest threat I perceive to America’s national security isn’t from Qaeda terrorists, Russian cyberattacks or Chinese missiles. As I see it, it’s from Trump’s re-election.

This is when conversations with friends become awkward. I may think that Trump bamboozled my pals, and they may think I’m manipulated by leftist propaganda, but we all have agency — and we each think the other is using that agency to endanger a country we all love.

I doubt I’ll change many minds. But the only thing I can do is reach out in a good-faith effort to undecided voters.

Sometimes it works. Jani, a committed Christian, has worried about Democrats and abortion. But this time she will vote for Biden because she’s appalled at Trump’s policies toward migrants, Black Lives Matter and health care, and because “God cares about oppression, justice, the voiceless.”

As Jani goes, so, I hope, will the nation.





No.27 article:
England to Shut Pubs, Restaurants and Most Shops as Virus Surges

Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s cabinet proposed the move on Saturday as medical experts warned that the virus would soon overwhelm hospitals if the government did not take draconian action.

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced plans on Saturday to shut down pubs, restaurants and most retail shops throughout England, a stark reversal in the face of grim projections that the country could face a deadly winter from the coronavirus unless it takes draconian action.

Mr. Johnson presented the measures as part of a new tier of restrictions that will cover all of England. But the steps, which would take effect on Thursday and last until Dec. 2, amount to a nationwide lockdown — something Mr. Johnson resisted for weeks because of the damage he said it would do to the economy.

“We’ve got to be humble in the face of nature,” Mr. Johnson said at a hastily called news conference at 10 Downing Street. “In this county, alas, as across much of Europe, the virus is spreading even faster than the reasonable worst-case scenarios of our scientific advisers.”

The measures, announced after a tense day of meetings of Mr. Johnson’s cabinet, would bring England into line with France, Germany, Belgium, and Ireland, all of which have shut down large parts of their countries in recent days amid a rapid-fire resurgence in infections.

As in March, when the virus first engulfed Europe, England has been slower to respond than some of its European neighbors. That equivocation, critics say, has deepened the misery for the country, which has suffered one of Europe’s highest death tolls and heaviest economic blows from the pandemic.

Even as a second wave of infections swept in last month, Mr. Johnson was caught between a faction of his Conservative Party, which argued that another lockdown would devastate the economy, and his scientific advisers, who argued that it was unavoidable, given the exponential spread of the virus.

Under the current trajectory, the scientists said, hospitals would be stretched to capacity by the first week of December, even including the giant field hospitals that the government built, but never used, last spring.

Mr. Johnson had initially planned to roll out the new measures this coming Monday, but reports of the government’s deliberations leaked out on Friday evening, forcing the prime minister to move up his timetable.

“They have no choice,” said Devi Sridhar, head of the global public health program at the University of Edinburgh. “It’s better today than tomorrow, and it would have been better yesterday than today.”

The government said the measures would be voted on by Parliament next Wednesday, and there were indications that some Conservatives would try to block them. But with an 80-seat majority in Parliament and the support of the opposition Labour Party, there was little chance that these measures wouldn’t be adopted.

To cushion the economy from the worst effects of the lockdown, Mr. Johnson said the government would extend until December a wage-subsidy program for people whose jobs are threatened by the measures.

Under the plans, people would be required to stay at home unless their workplaces, such as factories or construction sites, need them. They would be allowed to go to school or college and leave home for a few other reasons, like buying food or seeking medical attention. But nonessential shops would be closed, people would be urged not to travel, except for business, and pubs and restaurants would only be allowed to serve take out food.

Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland have already instituted similar restrictions, leaving England as an outlier within the United Kingdom.

Until now, the prime minister’s approach had been to order targeted lockdowns in hot spots like the cities of Liverpool and Manchester, while allowing less affected places, like London, to operate more or less normally.

Mr. Johnson called this strategy a “stitch in time to save nine,” though it did not mollify the authorities in those hard-hit cities, whose leaders complained bitterly that the government was singling them out unfairly.

But the latest numbers suggest the tailored approach was no longer enough.

The government’s scientific advisory panel, known as SAGE, estimated in a report dated Oct. 14 that there were between 43,000 and 75,000 new infections a day in England, a rate that is above the worst-case scenarios calculated only weeks before that. The virus has spread beyond the initial hot spots in the north of England.

Hospital admissions are also running ahead of the worst-case scenario, the panel said, raising the specter that within weeks, the National Health Service will not be able to cope with the influx of patients. That could drive Britain’s virus-related death toll beyond the 85,000 that scientists estimated could be reached this winter.

On Saturday, Britain reported 21,915 new infections, passing a grim milestone of one million people who have tested positive. It admitted 1,444 patients to the hospital with symptoms of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. Nearly 1,000 patients are in intensive care units, while 326 people died on Saturday alone.

Britain’s total death toll from the virus is 58,925, one of the highest in Europe.

For weeks, politics has colored the debate over how to curb the virus. The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Keir Starmer, called on Mr. Johnson in mid-October to impose a two-week lockdown that scientists said would act as a “circuit breaker” on the chain of transmissions. He cited a report from SAGE that warned Britain faced a “very large epidemic with catastrophic consequences.”

Mr. Johnson accused Mr. Starmer of failing to take into account the economic fallout from such a lockdown, which has led influential cabinet ministers, including the chancellor of the Exchequer, Rishi Sunak, to raise alarms.

Imposing the lockdown now, analysts said, could hurt Mr. Johnson within his party because it will look like he is buckling to pressure from the opposition. But polls indicate that the British public is more sympathetic.

Locking down the economy in November is also a way to salvage Christmas. By cutting the transmission rate, the government could relax restrictions in December to allow families and friends to celebrate together.

British papers have been full of headlines about whether Mr. Johnson will “cancel Christmas.” He has insisted that he wants university students to be reunited with their families during the holidays.

While medical experts generally applauded the planned lockdown, some questioned why the government did not act sooner, like during the midterm school break, which began earlier this month, as public health experts proposed.

Others said the government still had not fixed its test-and-trace system, which continues to fall far short of its goals. Until it does that, experts said, Britain would not be able to identify or break the chains of transmission — setting the stage for further outbreaks after the lockdown is lifted.

“You use lockdowns to build up test and tracing,” Ms. Sridhar said. “We will be stuck in these cycles of lockdown and release until they decide we can’t live with this virus because it’s killing our economy.”





No.28 article:
A Podcast Answers a Fast-Food Question That Nobody Is Asking

If there is a god of ludicrous ideas that later seem inspired, he must have smiled on Brian Thompson one evening four years ago. A comedy writer living in Los Angeles, Mr. Thompson had been bingeing on true crime podcasts when he decided to create a show that would plumb the stupidest, least consequential mystery he could imagine. For reasons he can’t fully explain, he came up with:

Whatever happened to pizza at McDonald’s?

Maybe you are too young to remember. Perhaps you forgot. Or there’s a chance you’ve blocked it. But the home of the Big Mac began selling pizza in the mid-1980s, hoping to grab market share from national pie chains. McDonald’s gave up a few years later. Nobody seemed to lament the passing of McPizza, and nobody was urging its return. Which, to Mr. Thompson in the fall of 2016, made the topic all the more appealing.

“I had heard about it when I was younger, but I’d never tried it,” he said. “And I knew there were a lot of McDonald’s that are open 24 hours, so I could call one of them right then.”

He called two. At the first, an employee hung up a few milliseconds after being asked about McDonald’s pizza. At the second, a manager was sincerely stumped.

“Sorry about that,” the manager said, politely. “Have a good night.”

By 3 in the morning, Mr. Thompson had edited the calls and added some narration. He ended with an off-kilter ad he wrote for Squarespace, the web hosting platform, which he falsely claimed was the show’s sponsor.

“Squarespace,” Mr. Thompson said, in a cheery version of a monotone at the end of the pitch. “Make website easy.”

Then he uploaded episode 1 of the “Whatever Happened to Pizza at McDonald’s?” podcast to iTunes.

That was 177 episodes ago.

What started as a lark meant to amuse himself and his girlfriend has evolved into something far richer — a deadpan satire about podcasts, the business of podcasting and the quirks of investigative journalism. “Whatever” has a core audience of about 30,000 listeners, one of whom tattooed a pizza slice and the words “Thank you for your candor” above her ankle, a phrase Mr. Thompson intones after interviews that have shed little light. The show has spun off an online version of a board game and a self-published book (“How to Be an Investigative Journalist”), and Mr. Thompson has shot a TV pilot episode that his manager is shopping around Hollywood.

While attempting to unravel the “mystery” of McPizza, Mr. Thompson has turned doggedness into a kind of performance art. He has traveled to a remote Alaskan island to study an abandoned McDonald’s and walked up to the gate of the White House, where he tried to enlist the help of President Trump, a noted fan of fast food. He has had bizarre, occasionally illuminating conversations with dozens of people, including a saleswoman at an aerial advertising company. (He wanted to fly a banner reading, “Do you know McDonald’s used to serve pizza? Well, it is true. They indeed did serve pizza.” But the quote was out of his price range.)

One trick to keeping this enterprise alive and entertaining is Mr. Thompson’s refusal to accept answers to the show’s titular question, which he had learned by Episode 5. McPizza failed for reasons that should have seemed evident before it was rolled out: It’s way, way off brand, and it didn’t bake fast enough to keep pace with the rest of the menu.

Pretty simple.

No way, says Mr. Thompson. Actually, all the talking on the show is done by a character played by Mr. Thompson, an earnest, eager naïf, also named Brian Thompson, who regards himself as an intrepid seeker of truth and seems to think he’s digging into a riddle for the ages.

“My character has always refused to believe reality,” said Mr. Thompson during a phone interview. “And that kind of opened up the possibility that the show could be anything I want.”

McDonald’s, it turns out, is the ideal corporate foil for this absurdist spoof. Company spokesmen have never returned a single one of Mr. Thompson’s calls, allowing the show to imply that something dark and conspiratorial is at play.

The show is also sustained by events and coincidences that are easily given a sinister cast. Early on, Mr. Thompson learned that a McDonald’s in Pomeroy, Ohio, was the last franchise in the country still serving the pizza, and he raised money through Indiegogo to fly there and try it. (He described it as “at least as good as Little Caesars.”)

He wondered how the place kept selling an item that others in the chain didn’t offer. Once again, definitive answers were elusive because the franchise owner would not speak to him. (This reporter fared no better. Reached by phone and asked about the singular longevity of McPizza in Pomeroy, a supervisor at the restaurant, Kevin Matheny, said “We’re not at liberty to answer that question.”)

Several months after Mr. Thompson’s visit, the Pomeroy McDonald’s stopped selling McPizza. The podcast depicted this as retaliation against the show, a shameless effort to curtail old-fashioned muckraking. This makes sense only in the mind of “Brian Thompson,” whose baseline assumption is that McDonald’s ought to again sell pizza because people love it and because the company is in business to make money. Hence, any rationale for the product’s demise is under suspicion.

To Mr. Thompson’s delight, he keeps unearthing new rationales for the product’s cancellation. At one point, he heard about a McDonald’s in Adak, Alaska, a largely deserted island in the middle of the Bering Sea. For years, Adak was a Cold War outpost for Army and Navy barracks, but it was decommissioned in the early 1990s, and the McDonald’s there was abandoned. Last year, Mr. Thompson raised money online to travel the 3,100 miles there, hoping that the husk of a restaurant would contain his Holy Grail: a McDonald’s pizza oven.

He flew to Anchorage, then took a once-a-week, three-hour flight to Adak. After landing, he went straight to the McDonald’s and was disappointed to see it had been boarded up — there was no way inside. The trip seemed a grand bust. But as Mr. Thompson prepared to leave the island, his Airbnb host suggested he call a guy named Larry, who, it turned out, had once found a pizza oven in a derelict bowling alley. Evidently, it had been hauled out of the defunct McDonald’s. Larry determined it had been manufactured for McDonald’s by Garland Commercial Industries, a company in Freeland, Pa.

To “Brian Thompson,” this was a breakthrough on a par with the formulation of the laws of thermodynamics. He called Garland, and a representative put him in touch with a service tech in Cleveland who had once repaired McDonald’s ovens. Unlike the corporate P.R. department, this guy was chatty.

“They were only in McDonald’s for roughly two to three years because of the difficulty to program them,” the tech said on Episode 143. “I don’t even think there’s program manuals for it.”

And thus, to Mr. Thompson’s delight, three years into the show, he’d added another reason that McDonald’s killed pizza — the ovens were a fiasco.

“Armed with this treasure trove of dangerous information,” he said, ending the episode. “I shall continue my investigation next week.”

As funny as the show is, it can induce winces, particularly when Mr. Thompson is talking to minimum-wage workers, who have little choice but to treat the oddball on the phone diplomatically. It’s a pitfall Mr. Thompson is acutely aware of and tries to avoid by making himself the butt of every joke.

“I don’t want this to be a prank show, as much as I love prank shows,” he said. “I really want to be the dumbest person in the room at all times.”

Mr. Thompson grew up in northeast Louisiana and originally hoped to write fiction. He segued to stand-up comedy after graduating from college, then started a daily science news podcast in his late 20s. That landed him a job with a science education nonprofit in Los Angeles, which quickly imploded. He started performing and writing for the Upright Citizens Brigade, a comedy group, and has spent recent years writing for TV comedies and doing voice-over work.

Nothing he’s done, though, has resonated like his podcast. The day after he posted the first episode, he checked a Twitter account he’d set up for the show and found a batch of enthusiastic messages. This included a tweet from John Darnielle of the indie rock band the Mountain Goats, who wrote: “New favorite thing alert.”

“To me, it’s a show about branding and the way podcasting has grown,” Mr. Darnielle said in an interview. “We watched it go from an industry with no real boundaries, no rules about how you do it, to a medium that was trying to emulate what TV was, with umbrella companies with seven podcasts.”

In the years since Mr. Thompson began “Whatever,” the business of podcasting has boomed, with shows and podcast networks snapped up in deals worth millions. Mr. Thompson has no beef with money, and he recoups his costs — about $100 a month in podcast hosting fees — through ads automatically added to the show. But he’s irked by podcasts that blur the commercial and editorial by having hosts read advertisements, a throwback to TV’s early days.

It’s a practice he lampoons on “Whatever.” In each episode, he writes an ad for a real company that hasn’t paid him a cent, including Audible and Spotify. For a while, he called the podcast “ZipRecruiter Presents Whatever Happened to Pizza at McDonald’s.” Then ZipRecruiter sent a cease-and-desist letter.

Sometimes Mr. Thompson will satirize the topic of a popular podcast, which, in one memorable instance, yielded unexpected treasure. When Season 2 of “Serial” — now owned by The New York Times — focused on Bowe Bergdahl, the U.S. soldier who went AWOL in Afghanistan, Mr. Thompson did episodes about a fictional soldier who wandered off a base in search of McPizza.

He started reporting on the subject of McDonald’s in Afghanistan — and to his amazement, he found a real employee at an Afghan embassy who told him that all over the country, there were bootleg fast-food restaurants selling food based on underground recipes, including McPizza.

“This gave me the idea that maybe the recipe for McPizza was floating out there on the black market at some point,” Mr. Thompson said.

It’s just one of many leads he plans to follow up, which could keep him busy for a long time. There’s a middle school in Utah that years ago buried a time capsule with some kind of McPizza variant that came in a wrapper. He’ll need to visit. And recently, Mr. Thompson heard about a McDonald’s on a barge that opened in Vancouver for the 1986 World’s Fair — around the time of the pizza’s debut.

“My dream would be to take scuba diving lessons and search underwater where this barge was located during the fair,” he said. “I want to do an episode about looking for evidence of McDonald’s pizza on the bottom of the river.”





No.29 article:
Tap LinkedIn for Career Opportunities

Whether you’re looking for a new role or just trying to expand your professional network, here’s how to use the website’s services to your full advantage.

Arguably the least fun social media platform, LinkedIn used to be the online equivalent of a professional networking event — a stodgy affair that no one really wanted to hang around. But, for the foreseeable future, the pandemic has all but eradicated most other methods of sniffing out career opportunities. Now that grabbing drinks with former colleagues or hobnobbing at work conferences is off the table, LinkedIn has been promoted from obligatory to essential.

Since March, LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, has introduced a number of tools to help its 706 million members connect to more than 14 million job postings and learn new skills for career development (these figures were reported in Microsoft’s fourth quarter earnings call in July). All of the new offerings are available to all of LinkedIn’s users and do not require a “premium” plan, which ranges in cost from $29.99 to $119.95 per month.

Whether you’re looking for a new role or just trying to expand your professional network, here’s how to use the website to your full advantage.

A well-tended LinkedIn profile is an important way to stay relevant. “A lot of people only update their LinkedIn when they’re looking for jobs, so it’s not used to its full potential,” said Ashley Watkins, a job search coach and former corporate recruiter. “They wonder why no one’s reaching out to them; it’s because they’re inactive. If your profile is stale, you almost don’t exist.”

In addition to featuring your job and skills, be sure to include a photo of yourself. “Your picture should be professional-ish, and represent you well,” said Tejal Wagadia, a corporate recruiter at the digital education company StrongMind. “If appropriate, it’s nice to have a photo that shows your personality.” (Hers shows her drinking out of a coconut, which she described as “a good conversation starter.”)

The “skills” section of your LinkedIn profile deserves special attention if you’re looking for work, as recruiters often hunt for candidates using skills as keywords. “LinkedIn members who have at least five skills on their profile are 27 times more likely to be discovered by recruiters,” said Blake Barnes, who oversees the strategy and development of new tools and products at LinkedIn.

LinkedIn offers a feature where current and former colleagues can “endorse” the skills you’ve listed, as well as quizzes you can take to “verify” them. “We encourage members to go the extra step to verify skills — you’ll be 20 percent more likely to get hired if you have a completed LinkedIn Skill Assessment badge displayed on your profile,” Mr. Barnes said.

Don’t get too carried away, though. “If you haven’t used a skill in the past five years, don’t list it,” Ms. Wagadia said. “Some people have tons of keywords in their LinkedIn profile because they want to be found through a search, but then their job experience doesn’t back it up. That doesn’t help anyone.”

Regular engagement may not get you a job directly, but it can help open doors and get you on people’s radars. “When you’re liking and commenting on other people’s content, and sharing articles you read and liked, you’re more visible,” Ms. Watkins said. “That gives other people more incentive to reach out to you.”

But don’t just post about anything — this isn’t Facebook or Instagram. “Stick to your area of expertise,” Ms. Wagadia said. “And definitely avoid engaging in political or religious debates. It just leads to a mudslinging contest, and if a recruiter or hiring manager sees that, they’re going to question your judgment.”

“If you’re looking for a job at a certain company, start by doing an advanced search to find people you have something in common with at the company, and reach out to them,” said Michael Quinn, senior manager at Ernst &amp; Young who specializes in helping organizations attract talent.

Avoid coming off as transactional, though. “Start by looking at their content and engage based on that,” Mr. Quinn said. “Don’t just message people because you want something.” He suggests sharing a little bit about your professional life and commenting on their posts. “If I’m used to seeing your name, and then you send me a message saying, ‘Congrats on the new promotion,’ and then you ask to get on the phone for 15 minutes to learn about how I got to where I am, then it’s much easier for me to say, ‘Yes, I’ll take that phone call,’” he explained. “You’re building a relationship.”

In June, LinkedIn introduced a new feature called “Open to Work,” which allows users to display a badge on their profile photo that indicates they are looking for a new job. And according to the company’s data, it can give your profile a boost. “We’ve seen that people are 40 percent more likely to get a message from a recruiter and 20 percent more likely to get a message from another member if they show that they are ‘Open to Work’ publicly,” Mr. Barnes said. (If you’d rather be discreet, members have the option to display the badge so that it’s only visible to recruiters outside your company.)

A silver lining of the pandemic is that it has stripped away some of the awkwardness around admitting you’ve lost your job. “That transparency didn’t really exist before Covid, and it’s now becoming a key part of our job-seeker ecosystem,” Mr. Barnes said.

LinkedIn claims that data collected in August showed that users are four times more likely to hear back from a job recruiter or hiring manager if they applied for a job posting within the first 10 minutes — so it helps to be quick. “We recommend setting up job alerts, so that listings that meet your specific criteria will be sent to you as soon as they’re posted,” Mr. Barnes said.

In the meantime, the platform allows users to record practice interviews online and evaluate their performance. The tool uses AI-powered feedback to assess how fast you’re talking, how many times you use filler words (“um” and “like”), and sensitive phrases to avoid.

Linkedin’s most recent tool is Career Explorer, which rolled out last Thursday to steer members toward new roles that align with their skills but may be in a different industry or area they hadn’t previously considered. “Our data gives us unique insights about career paths and how skills transfer from one job to another,” said Paul Ko, the head of economic policy research at LinkedIn. “Many members didn’t necessarily know what job transitions were available to them.”

In a recent survey of 2,000 professionals who became unemployed in the last eight months, commissioned by LinkedIn and conducted by Censuswide, respondents reported that they were overwhelmed by the prospect of a career pivot because they didn’t know where to start (almost half), considered themselves unqualified for other industries (about a third), didn’t have connections in other industries (32 percent) or didn’t know how their skills translated (just under a third).

The Career Explorer tool aims to bridge those gaps in knowledge and confidence. To use it, members type in their current or most recent job and get a list of other job suggestions that require similar skills (along with a percentage of skills overlap, like a Venn diagram). For example, a food service worker could see that his or her peers often transition into customer service specialist roles, a rapidly growing sector that requires about 70 percent of the same skills, according to the tool. The tool also suggests open positions in your geographic area.

If there are certain jobs with overlapping skills but a few critical ones you don’t have, the tool will also provide links to LinkedIn courses that you can take to learn them. “The goal is to help people tap into opportunities that they should be considering but didn’t even know about,” Mr. Ko said.





No.30 article:
The Lessons of the Pirate League

There will always be critics of a soccer super league, those who say the hurdles are too high, that it could never work. Except, of course, that one time when it did.

At first glance, the three men sitting around a table in the Embajadores restaurant in downtown Bogotá made unlikely companions. True, they were all roughly the same age, in their mid- to late-20s. And, as they traded tales of adventure, their accents would have given away that all three were Argentines, a long way from home.

But that is where the similarities ended. One member of the party was tall, blond and always immaculately dressed. Alfredo Di Stéfano was arguably the most famous athlete in South America; he would go on to become the most celebrated player of his generation. It was a status he took seriously.

His guests, on the other hand, must have bordered on the disheveled. Ernesto and Alberto were both doctors, but they had been traveling for months, tracing the spine of South America on a pair of dusty, beaten-up motorbikes, living out of their saddlebags, often sleeping under the stars. Their faces were bearded and their clothes worn.

A friend of a friend had put them in touch with Di Stéfano. And despite his fame, he had not only agreed to meet with them, but he had come bearing gifts: some yerba maté, the bitter herbal drink that Argentines like for some reason, and — most important — a couple of tickets for a game the next day.

That is why Ernesto and Alberto were in Bogotá, after all. They were both soccer fans, and they had taken a break from their work in Leticia, near the Peruvian border, to make the hourslong journey to the capital so they could watch the most exciting team in the most exciting league in the world. They were here to see the pirates play.

It is only with hindsight, and the knowledge of who was sitting with him at that table, that it is possible to see just how extraordinary a scene — painted vividly in Ian Hawkey’s biography of Di Stéfano — this is.

One of those two doctors would witness such rampant inequality on the journey around South America, and in Colombia in particular, that he became convinced of the need for social change and, eventually, violent revolution. A few years later, the world would know Ernesto, the 24-year-old cadging a ticket off one of his country’s finest players, as Che Guevara.

Inside the Embajadores that day, though, he was just a kid, a doctor, a fan. If anyone at that table was a rebel, it was Di Stéfano.

He had arrived in Colombia three years earlier, lured by the untold riches offered by the country’s soccer clubs, to sign with Bogotá’s Millonarios. He was the biggest name, the greatest draw, but he was not alone: Hundreds of players, largely from South America but a handful from Europe, too, had made the same journey.

In Colombia, the news media called it El Dorado: the golden age. Everywhere else, it had a different name. In England, certainly, they called it the Pirate League, and it is a story worth revisiting this week.

On Tuesday, Josep Maria Bartomeu announced his long-anticipated resignation as president of Barcelona not with a whimper, but with a bang. In his parting speech, he confirmed he and his board had agreed in principle to take part in a forthcoming European super league.

A few hours later, Javier Tebas, the bombastic president of La Liga, accused Florentino Pérez — the president of Real Madrid — of orchestrating Bartomeu’s announcement. This latest incarnation of the super league, Tebas furiously alleged, is something Pérez has been working on for years, but it is a plot that is destined to fail.

That is what is always said about these ideas. They could not work, soccer’s establishment haughtily warns, because renegade clubs would be cut adrift from their national and continental associations. They would become pariahs.

That has, the warning runs, real consequences. Their players would not be eligible to play in FIFA competitions, and good luck persuading Kylian Mbappé to get on board if he can’t play at the World Cup. There could be no mixing with the teams left behind in the national leagues, no domestic cup competitions, no involvement with UEFA, no way back. This is always presented as the final threat, the hurdle no breakaway proposal could ever clear.

Except, of course, that one time when it did.

In the late 1940s, with Colombia on the brink of civil war after the assassination of Jorge Gaitán, its government decided, for the first time, to begin a national, professional league. Before that, soccer in Colombia had been local and amateur. A glamorous new league, starting in 1948, the authorities thought, might help distract a restless population. (This did not work.)

But in 1949, the uneasy truce between Dimayor — the body overseeing the professional league — and Adéfutbol, the country’s federation, broke. The latter cut off the former, in what should have been the end of the experiment. In the event, it did quite the opposite.

The league’s clubs saw excommunication as an opportunity. Because they were no longer affiliated with their national federation, they were no longer part of FIFA. And that meant not having to play by FIFA’s transfer rules.

And so Colombia’s clubs — taking advantage of a player strike in Argentina, as well as poor pay and working conditions for players across South America and in much of Europe — went on an unprecedented shopping spree.

In the next couple of years, hundreds of foreign players arrived, among them the entire Peruvian national team; Heleno de Freitas, the brilliant, troubled Brazilian star; Adolfo Pedernera, one of Argentina’s most famous players; and young talents like Héctor Rial and the coruscating 23-year-old Di Stéfano.

The lure of outlaw soccer even stretched to Britain, still considered the pinnacle of the game. For players there still earning a maximum wage — which then capped even the highest salaries at only 12 pounds per week — the sums on offer in Colombia were too good to turn down: thousands of dollars in signing-on fees, inflated because the pirate clubs did not have to pay transfer fees, plus hundreds of dollars in salaries.

Accepting the mutineers’ cash was so controversial that the stories of how the players made their way to Colombia seem to be drawn straight from spy novels: Bobby Flavell of Hearts being bundled into a moving car on the runway at Glasgow airport; Neil Franklin, regarded as the best English defender of his generation, being smuggled out of the country incognito.

(Only Matt Busby, the great Manchester United manager, seemed to understand the motivation. When his left winger, Charlie Mitten, received an offer, he told him to accept it. “Go, or you’ll die wondering,” Busby told him.)

It did not last, of course. Few of the Europeans who made it to Colombia settled. Franklin lasted only six games. Within a few years, the league had been forced to come back into FIFA’s fold, and the glittering array of stars it had contracted floated away. Some were welcomed back at the clubs they had deserted. Others, particularly in England, were treated as heretics, scorned for daring to try to earn more money.

Why bring this up now? Partly, in all honesty, because it is a brilliant story, one that has not been told nearly often enough — though Franklin, at least, has been the subject of two books in the past year: “Flight to Bogotá” and “England’s Greatest Defender.”

Partly because, as Europe’s elite clubs flirt with the idea of a breakaway league once again, the days of El Dorado provide a warning: Ultimately, players will go where the money is, and fans will follow. The clubs of the pirate league could pay their generous salaries only because Colombia’s stadiums were packed to the rafters. With a fragmented, international audience, it is probably fair to assume the same would happen with a super league.

But it is mainly because, for all the fire and fury generated by any mention of a super league, it reminds us that even unwelcome developments can bring unexpected benefits and that, often, it is the breaks with orthodoxy — whether the birth of the Premier League itself or the Bosman ruling — that have changed soccer’s history the most.

The most obvious consequence of the pirate league was the rise of Real Madrid: Santiago Bernabeu, the club’s ambitious president and Pérez’s precursor, snared Di Stéfano when he left Colombia, a transfer that almost instantaneously made his team the sport’s first continental superpower.

But the era’s effects rippled out in countless other ways. In England, it is likely it contributed to the end of the maximum wage — abolished in 1961 — and what was known as the “retain and transfer” system, which was dismantled two years later. More broadly, it may have hastened the arrival of soccer’s superstar era, concentrating more power, and more money, in the hands of the very best players than they had ever enjoyed before.

The day after their meeting with Di Stéfano in the restaurant, Guevara and his companion, Alberto Granado, went to watch Millonarios play. Guevara was not especially impressed: He wrote to his mother complaining that the seats had not offered the best view.

Perhaps it was no surprise Guevara did not take to it: The pirate league was a glimpse of soccer’s slick, corporate, money-soaked future. Granado, though, was much happier. He considered himself something of an expert player, a scheming midfielder, and he was pleased with what he saw, threat to the fabric of the game or not. “It was,” he wrote, “one of the best games I have seen live, and there have been more than a few of those.”

Time, you will have noticed, is different now. It does not work quite as it used to. Why that might be is hard to discern. It could be the distorting effect of the pandemic, when every day is essentially the same, making last week feel distant but March seem somehow close.

Or it could be that living in such a rapid news cycle — the first wave and the protests and the second wave and the election and the President has tweeted what now? — has changed the meaning of immediacy, as though the brain is confused as to whether information needs to be filed in short- or long-term memory.

Either way, all of the familiar measurements of time seem somehow insufficient. A day, a week, a month no longer seem like something fixed, a period of tightly defined length. March lasted forever. April passed by in a flash. Remember when Prince Harry and Meghan Markle stepped down from the royal family? That was this year. Remember when Manchester United conceded six at home to Tottenham? That was 26 days ago.

Since then, of course, things have started to look up for United: a comfortable win at Newcastle, an impressive victory at Paris St.-Germain, a creditable draw at home against Chelsea that went on for several days and, on Wednesday, a 5-0 demolition at Old Trafford of RB Leipzig, Champions League semifinalists last season/two months ago.

United, suddenly, is surging. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has proved his critics wrong. He has solved the midfield conundrum, tightened up the defense, found the right balance in attack. Paul Pogba is back. Harry Maguire is back. David De Gea is back. The troubles of the first few weeks of the season can be forgotten. That was early October! It was ages ago! It’s … late October now.

Sports have always worked a bit like this, of course, even if it seems quicker with every passing week. Reputations and expectations rise and fall roughly once every three days; each game seems to generate sweeping conclusions that can be safely discarded barely a week later.

But it is hard to escape the feeling that United, under Solskjaer, has been here before. His reign — nearly two years old now, though it feels like much less and also quite a lot more — has been characterized by streakiness.

It was a run of 14 wins in his first 19 games that secured him the job on a permanent basis in the first place; United finished third last season after winning nine of its last 14 Premier League games. (In both seasons, it ended up with 66 points.) In between, it has been plagued by inconsistency.

Defeat against Spurs may well prove to have been another of those turning points, shifting Solskjaer’s Manchester United from waning to waxing. The momentum built up over the last few weeks may be enough to carry the team through an arduous couple of months. Indeed, in this curious season, that could yet be enough. If Liverpool and Manchester City continue to stumble, it is not impossible this Manchester United team can keep pace.

But it is worth remembering, even at a time when last week seems a lifetime ago and the world seems to be born anew every day, that it was really not long ago that United was reportedly reaching out to possible replacements and Solskjaer, once again, seemed to be on the brink. Things change quickly in 2020. But often, that just means we get back to where we started faster than before.

Last week’s reminder that one team in every league has to be West Brom prompted Brian LaFatta to get in touch with what is, if we’re all honest, a much more salient point. “The excitement of premier fixtures like P.S.G. against Manchester United or Juventus-Real Madrid is, in large part, due to their rarity,” he wrote. “Funnel these teams into a super league and after a year or two, such matches will be no more exciting than a mid-September game between Liverpool and Spurs.”

This is absolutely right, but I do wonder if we — and by we I mean people of a certain generation — make the mistake of assuming everyone thinks like we do; perhaps, to a younger audience, those games would do just fine as standard, weekly fodder.

I’d also like to thank Shelly Fierston for her eloquent, and understandably angry, email about the deeply unappealing episode in which Sergio Agüero grabbed the neck of Sian Massey-Ellis, the Premier League’s only female assistant referee.

“As a woman, and the mother of 19-year-old daughters, my outrage at Agüero’s ‘nonthreatening’ interaction with Massey-Ellis was instantaneous,” Shelly wrote. “Ask any woman you know who has worked in a professional setting, and they will recognize this behavior instantly as one meant to diminish, demean, and intimidate.

“Professional working women around the world, simply doing their jobs, are constantly required to navigate this repulsive behavior and are asked to ignore it, excuse, to laugh it off. Massey-Ellis is now left in the unenviable position of having to either acknowledge the frustrating encounter or ‘brush it off as unimportant’ — both scenarios providing a no-win situation for her.

“Over and over again, working women are diminished while simply doing their jobs, and not getting institutional support to quash such behavior.”

Shelly is right to say that Agüero should have been reprimanded by the Premier League. She is right to say that Pep Guardiola’s assertion that his striker is a “nice guy” is not really the point, as laid out brilliantly by The Guardian’s Suzy Wrack here. And she is right to say that last week’s column should have highlighted and condemned the incident; it is a week too late, but I hope this goes some way to amending that last one.

That’s all for this week. Thanks, as ever, for all the ideas and tips and suggestions: keep them coming to askrory@nytimes.com. I am available on Twitter if you wish to discuss any 1950s Colombian esoterica, and Instagram if you wish to see the frankly disturbing pictures of the “spooky walk” I took my three-year-old son on this week. Set Piece Menu, on the other hand, is fun for all the family. Have a great weekend, and keep safe.





No.31 article:
Manhattan Hits a Virus Milestone: Median Rent Below $3,000 

Soaring inventory and discounted rents in Manhattan have pushed the median to the lowest price in nearly a decade.

For the first time in nearly a decade, the median asking rent for an apartment in Manhattan has fallen below $3,000 a month, as vacancies soar and tenants reorder priorities amid the coronavirus.

The third quarter also marked the first time in which Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens all recorded year-over-year rent declines since 2010, according to a new report from the listings website StreetEasy. The median monthly rent fell to $2,990 in Manhattan, down 7.8 percent; $2,599 in Brooklyn, down 2.5 percent; and $2,200 in Queens, down 2.2 percent.

“This is the first of many milestones to come, in terms of Manhattan’s rental market being turned on its head,” Nancy Wu, a StreetEasy economist, said about the declines, noting that prices will likely continue to drop because of surging inventory, and temporary, if not fundamental, changes to renter habits.

Of all the boroughs, Manhattan has the highest share of affluent, mobile renters, many of whom chose not to renew leases during the pandemic, and the once reliable stream of newcomers, who paid a premium to be close to Midtown offices, has slowed, Ms. Wu said.

Last month, there were nearly 16,000 listings available for rent in Manhattan, a 14-year record and more than triple the inventory in the same period last year, according to a recent report from the brokerage Douglas Elliman.

StreetEasy observed a similar surge in new listings this quarter, which helped to push the median discount on Manhattan rentals to 9.1 percent off the initial asking price, up from 3.9 percent this time last year. That translates to a median $272 monthly discount.

It’s likely that the actual price cuts are even deeper, because landlords hardly ever disclose the final negotiated rent, said Bill Kowalczuk, an associate broker with Warburg Realty. In the absence of a treatment or vaccine for the virus, those cuts are expected to deepen, he said, despite landlords’ reluctance.

“I don’t think they can believe this is actually happening,” he said. “‘How could I have gotten $5,000 two years ago, and now no one even wants it for $3,500?’”

While inventory has also climbed significantly in Brooklyn and Queens, prices there have not fallen as dramatically — and in some cases, prices are flat or rising, because of a dearth of affordable options elsewhere in the city.

In the third quarter, Brooklyn rents dropped, year over year, for the first time in a decade. Yet the 2.5 percent price decline was modest, spurred by discounting in expensive northwest neighborhoods, like Williamsburg, while rents held steady in less affluent parts of the borough, like East New York.

Even with considerable price cuts, the discounting will mean less for the tenants who need it the most. Mr. Kowalczuk warns that common concessions, like two or three months of free rent on a one-year lease, are a temporary perk, and new tenants should carefully consider if they can afford the unmitigated rent the following year.

And the coronavirus has made clear that rent relief is not proportional to need. In a StreetEasy analysis of neighborhoods with the fewest Covid-19 cases, rents in wealthy neighborhoods, like SoHo in Manhattan, dropped 4.3 percent from February to September. In the hardest hit neighborhoods, like Corona in Queens and Pelham Parkway in the Bronx, rents actually rose 0.2 percent.

Despite the considerable discounting in Manhattan, which is expected to persist for months or longer, breaking the $3,000 threshold remains mostly symbolic, since citywide, the median rent  was $1,467 a month, according to the New York University Furman Center.





No.32 article:
They Crossed Paths at Howard but Caught Feelings in a Hurricane

“You know you’re going to be my boyfriend, right?” Jaime Oliva asked Edward Williams, long before they began dating. Mr. Williams brushed him off at first but eventually had a change of heart.

Jaime Oliva stepped out of an Uber and into harm’s way. Mr. Oliva, 30, a senior adviser for strategic management at the Department of Health and Human Services, was returning to his Washington office and looking razor sharp after visiting his barber in July 2017.

He had tickets that evening to a John Legend concert that he planned to attend with his longtime partner, Edward Williams, a senior associate at the law firm WilmerHale, and an adjunct professor and co-director of the Howard University Civil Rights Clinic.

“After taking a few short steps, I heard loud screeching,” said Mr. Oliva, who did not see a red S.U.V. speeding in his direction, but heard the sound of its driver slamming on the brakes just before hitting Mr. Oliva.

He stumbled after getting hit, though never lost his footing and was spared any serious injury. He was slightly bruised and shaking, though, when he tried to call Mr. Williams, who was nearby in a chambers meeting with Judge Patricia A. Millett, who he was clerking for at the time, at the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(At the time, Mr. Oliva’s office and Mr. Williams’s office were minutes apart, across from each other at the National Mall.)

His calls unanswered, Mr. Oliva somehow managed to type the words “Hit by car,” in a text message to Mr. Williams, who read it, before listening to Mr. Oliva’s voice messages, then burst from the courthouse, running down the street until he got to Mr. Oliva, whom he quickly embraced.

“I arrived to find Jaime physically and emotionally shaken,” Mr. Williams said. “After dealing with the police report and getting him to calm down, I was concerned for his well-being, and I also asked what he wanted to do about the concert.”

“Let’s go,” Mr. Oliva said.

The very first meeting between Mr. Oliva and Mr. Williams, at Howard University in the 2008-2009 academic year, when Mr. Oliva was a freshman and Mr. Williams a senior, was far less dramatic, and even less memorable, according to both men. Neither had any romantic interest in the other at that time.

They did not truly begin to notice each other until 2012, when Mr. Williams was a second-year law student at the Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, and Mr. Oliva was working as a paralegal at the Federal Trade Commission satellite office nearby.

Working in such proximity, they would often cross paths, and more often than not, Mr. Oliva would seize the opportunity to ask out Mr. Williams, who constantly waved him off, often citing scheduling issues. Mr. Williams graduated cum laude from Howard and received a law degree magna cum laude from Georgetown.

But Mr. Oliva persisted, peppering Mr. Williams with jolting comments like, “You know you are going to be my boyfriend, right?”

When Hurricane Sandy appeared on his radar in October 2012, Mr. Williams decided to host a “Hurricane Party” on the Sunday before the actual storm. During the party, he received a call from a close friend who needed a ride to his home, so he drove to her apartment complex in Hyattsville, Md.

Mr. Williams did not know that Mr. Oliva lived in the same complex, and on the same day that Mr. Williams had gone to pick up his friend, Mr. Oliva had ordered a pizza.

As Mr. Williams waited for his friend to come downstairs, he was stunned to see Mr. Oliva emerge from one of the buildings in search of the pizza deliveryman, who had just called to announce his arrival.

But with no deliveryman in sight, Mr. Oliva, in the mood for a little fun, approached Mr. Williams, who was slumped against his car, and having gone to chapel earlier in the day, dressed in a full suit.

“Hey,” he said to Mr. Williams, “are you the pizza delivery guy.”

Mr. Williams wasn’t amused. “I’m thinking to myself that I had been bumping into this guy for a few months, and he’s asked me out many times,” he said. “Now here I am in a full suit, he couldn’t possibly think I’m the pizza guy.”

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

Mr. Williams eventually met his friend and they drove back to Washington, where, for the first time, Mr. Williams began seeing Mr. Oliva through romantic eyes. “I thought to myself, here’s this really attractive guy who is incredibly persistent,” he said. ‘His resilience was one of the things I admired about him most.”

Later that evening, Mr. Williams texted Mr. Oliva to ask if he was still interested in going on a date, and Mr. Oliva responded with a resounding “yes.”

“What really struck me that day was how Edward talked about family values, and how close he is with his friends,” Mr. Oliva said. ‘He’s someone who is always selfless, who is always going to give his time to family and friends.”

They arranged for a first date the following weekend at Matchbox, a local pizza shop in Washington’s Chinatown neighborhood, and there they talked about family, future goals and hurricanes past.

Mr. Oliva grew up in Belle Glade, Fla., a city that fiercely prepares for hurricanes in order to protect its agricultural fields of sugar cane and other crops. His parents immigrated from Mexico before he was born and met each other in South Florida. His father is a welder with A. Duda &amp; Sons, his mother a stay-at-home-parent.

Mr. Williams, a son of Coy Williams and Edward Williams Sr., grew up in Savannah, Ga., where the threat of a hurricane seemed to arise every few years and from where he recalled evacuating at least once for a hurricane that never struck the city. His father is a human resources manager at Vic’s on the River, a restaurant in Savannah. His mother, now retired, worked in various roles at what is now a patient registrar at Memorial Health University Hospital, the same hospital where Mr. Williams was born.

A week after becoming a couple in December 2012, Mr. Oliva and Mr. Williams took a trip to the United States National Arboretum in Washington. They took a photo sitting at a bench alongside a cliff overlooking the Anacostia River. This photo, they said, was emblematic of their relationship: “reflective, solid, and united,” as Mr. Williams put it.

In June 2019, they returned to that very spot, recreating the bench photo, this time with the many trees in the Asian Collection garden in full bloom, and took some time to soak in nature. Together, they reflected on how their relationship had blossomed over the previous six and a half years.

“Edward helped me process the emotions of the unknown, which for me, can be very stressful,” Mr. Oliva said.

Ten months later, they returned to the National Arboretum in Washington yet again, this time to get married.

Though they had originally planned to wed on April 4 at the United States Institute of Peace, the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic forced them to postpone their wedding and ultimately to change venues.

So they chose the United States National Arboretum, returning to the place that has been central in their relationship since the beginning, and married there on Oct. 4, before Judge Patricia Millett, a friend and mentor to Mr. Williams, and 44 guests.

Both the wedding ceremony and cocktail reception took place outdoors, overlooking the National Capitol Columns, to ensure proper social distancing for guests.

At the reception, the newlyweds, who will use the surname Oliva-Williams, danced their first dance to John Legend’s version of Meghan Trainor’s “Like I’m Gonna Lose You,” a song they took comfort in three years earlier at Mr. Legend’s concert at the Merriweather Post Pavilion in Columbia, Md., the same day that Mr. Oliva was hit by a car.

During the song, which Mr. Williams refers to as “our song,” the couple held hands, and they began to cry during their favorite part of the song “which makes it our song,” said Mr. Williams, his voice beginning to crack.

“So I’m gonna love you like I’m gonna lose you,” Mr. Legend sang, “I’m gonna hold you like I’m saying goodbye. Wherever we’re standing, I won’t take you for granted, ‘cause we’ll never know when, when we’ll run out of time.”

When Oct. 4, 2020

Where United States National Arboretum in Washington.

Dressed to Thrill The couple wore tuxedos designed by DC Custom Clothiers. For the ceremony, they chose charcoal gray three-piece tuxedos with black satin accents, then they changed into cream tuxedo jackets with black satin accents for the reception.

The Guests There was an eclectic mix of notable guests in attendance, including Judge Millett and retired Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, as well as the actors Jeffrey Rashad Pugh and Brandon Gill, and Carlos Battey, the Grammy Award-winning singer/songwriter known as Jackie’s Boy.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.33 article:
The Three A.M. Club

As 2020 lurches to a close, it seems more people are waking up at this ghastly liminal hour, unclaimed by neither night nor day.

It was that ghastliest of hours — 3 a.m. — bedtime a distant memory and daylight an eternity away. In the silence of his Salisbury, Conn., house, the interior designer Matthew Patrick Smyth jolted awake.

Semiconscious, he felt himself in a strange state of turmoil, his thoughts a tangled skein of hopes and expectations, though mostly fears: about the toll of Covid-19, voter suppression during an epochal election, racial tensions, an economy that may not rebound for years.

Against his best judgment, Mr. Smyth, 66, did what every sleep hygiene expert advises against. He fired up his phone.

“I go on Instagram and start scrolling and see people liking photos and remarks and wonder whether it’s impolite to answer,” Mr. Smyth said.

To do so would be to acknowledge an awareness that his followers were awake at an awful, liminal hour at which, F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote, foreshadowing the Age of Amazon, “a forgotten package has the same tragic importance as a death sentence.” And — worse yet — that he was up, too.

But of course he was.

According to a new survey conducted by the Harris Poll for the American Psychological Association, more than two-thirds of adults in the United States — or 68 percent — view the divisive 2020 election as a “significant source of stress in their lives,” a stark increase from the 2016 presidential election, when 52 percent said the same. So chronic a source of stress is a seemingly unending pandemic that no polling statistics are required.

At least they were not for Maria Bonta de la Pezuela, the chief executive officer for the Americas at Carpenters Workshop Gallery. “I try to do breathing exercises,” to restore calm when undifferentiated terrors arouse her at 3 a.m., Ms. Bonta de la Pezuela, 54, said recently by email. “I end up scrolling nine out of 10 times. The anxiety is real.”

And the remedies for the new night terror seem to vary as broadly as its sources. For Dave Herndon, 63, a freelance editor in Santa Fe, N.M., guided meditation apps assist in “reprogramming negatively firing neurons,’’ induced by “the Covid anxiety dance,” as he said by phone.

“Then, rather than starting to flip out about how you’re not getting enough sleep and are not going to be able to do what you need to tomorrow, you have this distraction from the ruminations that accompany waking up at three in the morning,” Mr. Herndon said.

Relief, for Jacqueline Coumans, 77, a retired decorator and French instructor, from fears induced by what she termed “our political chaos” has recently come from reciting the fables of the 17th-century French fabulist Jean de La Fontaine. “I could not fall asleep at all after the first debate,” Ms. Coumans said in a Facebook message. “I was waking up at 3 a.m. sweating with anxiety.”

No matter that the sonorous tempo of the French in use when she memorized the fables in childhood is often paradoxically at odds with their harsh underlying moral lessons — “The Wolf and the Lamb,” with its conclusion that might is right, is particularly unnerving — Ms. Coumans finds them soothing. “There’s a balance in the sentences that balances your brain.”

To find her own equilibrium in parlous times, Sally Fischer, a Manhattan publicist in her 60s, turns not to literature, she said, but to vintage sitcoms. “I’m a naturally calm person, so I actually find it difficult to jump out of my skin,” Ms. Fischer said.

Yet in the run-up to Nov. 3, Ms. Fischer has become all too familiar with a physical anxiety evoked by that figure of speech. “I’ve never been much of a TV person, but now, from 3 a.m. until I fall asleep again, I retreat into ‘The Andy Griffith Show’ or Dick Van Dyke or ‘Make Room for Daddy,’” Ms. Fischer said. “This may sound stupid, but watching how Andy Griffith raised Opie or Danny Thomas raised his TV kids, in a world where the work ethic, doing charitable work, being good to thy neighbor is such a counter to the disgustingness we’re going through now, helps me suppress the demons.”

A widespread, palpable sense of being hunted into the predawn darkness hardly seems out of the ordinary with the world in the grip of a lethal and invisible menace, said Asha Tarry, a psychotherapist practicing in Manhattan. “To the multiple stresses we’ve all experienced during Covid,” Ms. Tarry said, “add the compounding factors of racial tension, furloughs, the elections, so much social isolation, and it is not surprising people are sleepless, grinding their teeth and having 3 a.m. nightmares.”

Grief, too, plays a part, Ms. Tarry said. “We’re seeing more clinicians talk about, yes, the grief of actual human loss but also the loss” of access to familiar people, places and things.

“There is an avalanche of issues,” said Sofia Borges, 35, a graphic designer in Los Angeles. “Almost everyone I know has lost their job. Almost everyone is beleaguered. Almost everyone is holding on by a shoestring.”

Many, embroiled in what Ms. Borges termed a “toxic quagmire” of current events find themselves shaken out of sleep by furious dreams as reliable as an alarm. “I was feeling that kind of rage that makes you hot,” Ms. Borges said. “A friend suggested, ‘Let’s scream really loud,’ but I couldn’t because I was sick and had lost my voice. She said, ‘Let’s break plates.’ But that’s messy and dangerous.”

Rather, Ms. Borges devised and then self-published “Anger Confetti: An All Ages Stress Reduction Activity Book,” filled with colored pages arranged in a rainbow gradient and that users are encouraged to rip to shreds. “It was my response to losing sleep, losing work and the grief you experience when you feel you’re losing your stability and sanity.”

In a snapshot overview of a typical grief cycle, recovery may be expected to begin at about the six-month mark, Ms. Tarry, the Manhattan therapist, noted. Yet with a second and third wave of infection expected and no vaccine in sight, there are those who find themselves searching for answers to why we are seemingly back where we began.

“To tell you the truth, when Covid started, my husband and I were sleeping better than ever,” said Chanda Parbhoo, 55, a jeweler and voting rights activist in Dallas. “We did this pause and were waking at nine in the morning to take leisured walks.” Soon, though, as video meetings began to colonize her workdays and the presidential election neared, Ms. Parbhoo, the founder of SAAVE or South Asian Americans for Voter Education, gave up hope of getting anything near a solid eight hours.

These days she considers herself lucky to achieve three. “I am up at all hours, and it is worse the closer we get to Nov. 3 because there’s so much to pack in,” she said.

And lately, when Hapi Phace, 62, a performance artist who, before moving to Arlington, Mass., almost a decade ago, was for many years a fixture of the downtown New York scene, finds his eyelids snapping open like window blinds in a pitch-dark bedroom, his universe dwindled to the size of a mattress, he thinks about pandas.

“It’s not even that I like bears or bear culture,” he said. Wide-awake in the middle of the night, he plays YouTube videos of falling rain on his smartphone and makes block prints on bandannas, T-shirts and cards of the reassuringly placid creatures that sustain themselves on a diet of shoots and leaves.

“I don’t know why I’m doing it,” Mr. Phace said. “I just do it until I’ve exhausted myself. Having an artistic focus is the only thing that’s keeping me from crawling out of my skin at 3 a.m.”





No.34 article:
Final Weekend Campaigning Reflects Both Traditional Barnstorming and 2020 Chaos 

The candidates visited two of the key “Blue Wall” states Mr. Trump won in 2016.

President Trump predicted “bedlam” and a lack of clarity about the presidential results until weeks after Election Day as he barnstormed Pennsylvania, while former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. made his first joint appearance with former President Barack Obama at an event in Michigan. 

The last Saturday before Election Day offered traditional last-minute frantic campaigning in battleground states played against the backdrop of the extraordinary rancor, high stakes and sense of disruption reflecting a pandemic, an economic downturn and recurring protests and unrest at the close of Mr. Trump’s first term. 

The dueling schedules showed the intensity with which the two campaigns are approaching the final days of the election and illustrated differences once again in their basic approach to the worst public health crisis in a century. 

Mr. Biden talked about taking the coronavirus pandemic seriously, while Mr. Trump mocked his opponent for his focus on the virus and falsely accused him of favoring “deadly” lockdowns. 

In remarks in Newtown, Pa., and Reading, Pa., Mr. Trump stoked fears of an election left unsettled after voting closes on Nov. 3 and about the prospects that ballots would not count. 

“You’re going to be waiting for weeks” as votes are counted, Mr. Trump declared in Newtown. 

“Many, many days,” he went on. “So you’re going to be watching on Nov. 3. I think it’s highly likely you’re not going to have a decision, because Pennsylvania’s very big. We’re going to be waiting. Nov. 3 is going to come and go, and we’re not going to know. And you’re going to have bedlam in our country.”

At his next stop, in Reading, Mr. Trump derided a Supreme Court decision rejecting a request from Pennsylvania Republicans to decide whether the state could continue accepting ballots for three days after Nov. 3. 

“You see what’s going on, right?” Mr. Trump said of Democrats. “Somebody’s going to play games, and they just got an extension. What’s the extension all about? Wouldn’t you like to hear, Nov. 3, we win, we lose? We win, we lose. Whatever.” 

The president called the decision “disappointing” and added, “Many, many disappointing opinions from the Supreme Court. They talk about we control the Supreme — well we don’t control the Supreme Court. That was a terrible decision.”

The question of how long ballots can be accepted in battleground states has been a dominant one as Nov. 3 approaches. So has the question of whether Mr. Trump will try to declare victory if he is leading in specific states on Election Day, regardless of whether they have been called in his favor. 

Mr. Trump barely addressed the coronavirus pandemic at his first two stops, other than to praise his administration, complain about Mr. Biden’s focus on the pandemic and falsely claim once again that the country was “rounding the turn” as the number of daily new cases nationally has spiked to almost 100,000. 

Mr. Obama, appearing with Mr. Biden at a drive-in rally in Flint, Mich., for their first stop of the day, mocked Mr. Trump as heartless. 

Noting Mr. Trump’s baseless claim a day earlier that doctors were profiting from coronavirus deaths, Mr. Obama said, “He cannot fathom, he does not understand the notion that somebody would risk their life to save others without trying to make a buck.”

Mr. Trump is continuing to hold crowded rallies as the pandemic rages, and Mr. Obama ridiculed him for his fixation on crowd sizes, asking: “Did no one come to his birthday party when he was a kid? Was he traumatized?”

In the past two weeks, Mr. Obama campaigned solo for Mr. Biden in Pennsylvania and Florida, but Saturday was the first time in the general election that he and Mr. Biden had campaigned together in person.

At the event in Flint, Mr. Biden praised Mr. Obama and ripped Mr. Trump over the pandemic. He too invoked Mr. Trump’s baseless statement made at a rally on Friday about doctors and coronavirus-related fatalities.

“What in the hell is wrong with this man?” Mr. Biden asked. “Excuse my language, but think about it. It’s perverted. He may believe it because he doesn’t do anything other than for money.”

And he spoke of the stakes for the nation in this year’s vote.

“I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries,” Mr. Biden told the crowd. “There’s nothing — let me say it again — there’s nothing that he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting in overwhelming numbers and taking back this democracy.”

Where both Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden campaigned on Saturday was as revealing as what both men said. 

The two states were part of the so-called Blue Wall — Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, which have leaned Democratic in recent national elections but which were crucial to Mr. Trump’s victory in 2016 over Hillary Clinton.

Mr. Trump has struggled in all three states throughout the 2020 campaign and is pressing to keep at least one of the three as part of his map this year, in an election cycle marked by a pandemic and an economic recession. Pennsylvania is seen by Mr. Trump’s advisers as the likeliest state among the three for him to win.

In Newtown in Bucks County, Mr. Trump delivered a subdued speech, speaking from the teleprompter at first, to several hundred people seated in folding chairs arrayed in a field in front of a stage and a podium. 

The speech took place in front of the farmhouse where George Washington planned the crossing of the Delaware River. The small crowd sat close together, mostly unmasked. Unlike it has done at his other rallies, Mr. Trump’s campaign did not position energetic supporters in a stand behind him.

The president criticized Mr. Biden’s record on trade in a state hit hard in recent years by job losses, and he criticized Mr. Biden’s comments about restricting the practice of fracking. He also defended his record on the coronavirus.

 

“We have done an incredible job. At some point they are going to recognize that,” Mr. Trump said after mocking Mr. Biden for focusing too much on the virus. “We’ve done an A-plus job. I give ourselves a D, or maybe an F, in terms of public relations.” 

After his third rally, in Butler, Pa., a CNN reporter posted on Twitter photos of crowds searching for buses to leave the event in 41-degree weather, an echo of the debacle in Omaha this past week when the campaign’s outdoor rally ended and the buses were nowhere to be found on a frigid night. 

A Trump campaign official on Saturday insisted there were dozens of buses and that it was simply taking awhile for the line to move. 

Ending his day with a rally in Montoursville, Pa., Mr. Trump cackled about his supporters “taunting” Mr. Biden at his outdoor events by driving by and honking horns, and then cheered on his supporters who surrounded a Biden campaign bus in Texas. Biden campaign officials said they had to cancel a planned event because the Trump supporters tried to force the bus off the road. 

“Anybody see the picture of their crazy bus driving down the highway, they are surrounded by hundreds of cars, they are all Trump flags all over the place,” Mr. Trump said, chuckling.

And he tried to sow doubt about the safety of voting in Philadelphia, a city with a large Black population, similar to what he did in 2016. 

“Are they going to mysteriously find more ballots” after polls close, he asked. “Strange things have been known to happen, especially in Philadelphia.” 

 

Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama ended with a drive-in rally in Detroit, where hundreds of people waited in cars to see them on Belle Isle, a state park on an island in the middle of the Detroit River with expansive views of the skylines of Detroit and Windsor, Ontario.

Stevie Wonder performed before they addressed the crowd. In his speech, Mr. Obama added another jab as he talked about Mr. Trump’s “obsession with crowds,” asking, “Is Fox News not giving him enough attention?”

Mr. Biden mocked Mr. Trump for having written off as business expenses more than $70,000 paid to style his hair during “The Apprentice.” 

“I tell you what, man,” Mr. Biden said. “I hardly have any hair, but I’d rather have what I have.”

For many drawn to the rally, it was time for a change.

“The last four years have been hell,” said Miriam Pizana, who came to the event with her daughter Kristen. “We never knew what the chief of staff or communications directors’ names were before, and now we know them all, and not for anything good.”





No.35 article:
Cut Off From the World Again, Australia Now Finds Silver Linings

After chafing against their isolation for so long, Australians these days are finding island life a privilege when pestilence lies beyond.

SYDNEY, Australia — They used to call it “the tyranny of distance.” Australia’s remoteness was something to escape, and for generations, the country that hates being referred to as “down under” has been rushing toward the world. Trade and immigration made Australians richer than the Swiss, creating a culture where life can be complete only with overseas trips and imported purchases.  

Until the pandemic. The virus has turned this outgoing nation into a hermit. Australia’s borders are closed, internationally and between several states. Its economy is smaller, and its population growth has fallen to its lowest rate in more than 100 years. 

Rather than chafing against isolation, though, Australians these days are more willing to smile in the mirror. Island living looks like a privilege when the world is pestilent. Those gnawing questions about travel, recession and the loss of global experience are being shoved down, below a more immediate appreciation for home and a search for silver linings.

In dozens of interviews, Australians have said they’re quite happy with their country’s response to the pandemic. Even with travel rules so strict they seem like something out of China or North Korea. Even with a 111-day lockdown in Australia’s second-largest city of Melbourne, which just finally ended. Even when the people kept away are grandparents longing to see new grandchildren. 

That’s the case for Jane Harper, a best-selling novelist in Melbourne, who has traded getting to know every building in her neighborhood for seeing her parents in Britain. 

“I had my second child in November, and they would have come out at least once and possibly twice by now,” she said. “Not knowing when that will lift — I guess it gives us more appreciation for how lucky we are to be able to visit in normal times, and it makes you realize how far away Australia really is.”

Not that she would have it any other way. After so much isolation, she added, “there is a real sense among Australians that we can dig deep and help each other deal with whatever is facing us.” 

Many other countries have also cut themselves off from their neighbors, and other island nations (Singapore, Japan, New Zealand) have also kept the virus in check. But in Australia, the ever-smaller circle is more intertwined with the pursuit of safety. 

Coronavirus deaths remain under 1,000. Schools and restaurants are open, sports are being played, and friends are gathering for dinner parties. But people stick to where they can drive and what they know, and a lot of work still occurs from home.

If many of its citizens are still stranded abroad by border restrictions, Australians argue, so be it; if states like Western Australia seem determined to keep out everyone from Sydney and Melbourne for as long as possible, well, at least the virus has been brought into submission.

Forced into a bell jar existence, many Australians are focusing on what they love about their country. The collectivist spirit. The fresh food. The beaches and small towns that equal or supersede the beauty of anywhere else in the world.

“It’s been kind of fun to see domestic travel go crazy again,” said Fred Siggins, 39, the brand manager for Sullivans Cove, a whiskey distillery in Tasmania. “That’s how it was in the ’90s before everyone started hiking off to Bali or whatever.”

Australia’s mood also seems to be benefiting from another reversal — many of those who had taken their ambitions to New York, London or Los Angeles have returned.

Edwina Throsby, the head of Talks and Ideas for the Sydney Opera House, said she knew several academics and creative types who had come home and now intended to stay. Like many others, she wondered if an Australian cultural renaissance might follow.

At the very least, self-reflection seems to be blooming.

In one small sign among many, Australia’s most prestigious portrait prize in contemporary art was awarded this year, for the first time, to an Aboriginal artist, Vincent Namatjira.

On a recent morning at the Art Gallery of New South Wales, his large-scale self-portrait with a well-known Indigenous Australian football player drew a cluster of avid fans, young and old.

The gallery featuring Asian art was far less crowded.

Each exhibit hall had a plaque outside showing the maximum number of people allowed in because of coronavirus restrictions. Masks were not required (Sydney is mostly virus free) and visitors respected the rules. They booked a time in advance and stayed socially distanced.

Michael Brand, the museum’s director, who previously ran the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, said it pointed to how the pandemic was making people more thoughtful users of time and space.

Maybe fewer options and more planning will “liberate our minds,” he said.

Technology, he added, will save Australia from fully retreating into itself. He said he had been frequenting museum collections online, while also using the time gained from a lack of travel to explore new realms — such as Nordic crime dramas.

Ms. Harper, who published a new novel, “The Survivors,” last month, said she had also been encouraged by larger-than-usual audiences for her readings online.

“There are so many people there who would never come to an in-person book event,” she said.

Some surprising businesses are adapting, too. Frank Theodore, a fishmonger at the Sydney Fish Market, upgraded his Get Fish website after a bleak April and said total sales were up this month compared with last October. 

And yet the virtual has its limits. Ms. Harper’s parents can’t hug their grandchildren over Zoom. Mr. Brand has started posting photos to Instagram of past trips with the phrase “museums I’m missing during the pandemic.”

Social norms are also under strain. Mr. Siggins, a chatty former bartender, recently ordered a cocktail delivered to his home in Melbourne from a local bar and met an acquaintance at the door. He said it felt like an awkward date.

“It’s such a strange interaction,” he said, “because you can’t just tell them to come in and have a beer, and you are just really out of practice, reacting to conversation, even facial expressions.”

Could something similar happen for Australia’s relationship with the world?

Former Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, sitting in his Sydney office above quiet streets missing both tourists and workers, scoffed at the idea of Australia giving up on globalism.

“I think there is broad agreement on both sides of the political fence,” he said. “Free trade and open markets are keys to our success.”

Still, there are signs of a narrowing perspective. Incidents of racism have been increasing, with anyone who looks Chinese bearing the brunt of the abuse. Australian universities have had to slash their budgets and research ambitions because of a lack of foreign students.

“We’re going to be more insular,” said Geoff Raby, an economist and a former ambassador to China. “We’re sleepwalking right into that.”

Hermetically sealed safety seems likely to exact a toll for as long as it lingers. Silver linings hide on dark clouds. Australians are only just starting to wonder about long-term costs and what to do with their isolation.

“We’ve all worked so hard to keep our cases down, and that’s such a fragile, precious thing that I can completely understand the strong urge to protect it,” Ms. Harper said. “My desire to see my parents, does that outweigh my desire to never go into lockdown again?”

“It’s not my decision to make,” she said. “But nationally that’s the question we are all asking ourselves.”





No.36 article:
Campaign 2020: Let’s Never Do This Again

ATLANTA — The masks, when used, can muffle the dueling chants of a live-action partisan clash. But the messages of this election season still have a way of carrying.

“No more years!” anti-Trump locals shouted at his supporters this past week in Atlanta, where a Joe Biden appearance had lured both camps to a patch of grass between a gas station and a creek.

“Four more years!” the incumbent’s backers called out even louder, largely unencumbered by face coverings.

“Black Lives Matter!”

“Black Lives MAGA!”

“Lock him up!”

“Lock HIM up!”

Ah, consensus.

In the course of human events that should probably be taking place virtually this year, in a house so divided that talk of jailing opponents registers as typical fare, in a country asking not what can be done, exactly, but whether anything can at this point, an election is happening on Tuesday.

It is not a hope-and-change kind of year. It is not a moment for being made great again.

Instead, a tour of these final, furious campaign days makes clear that the abiding theme of 2020 is something like survival: getting to 2021 in one piece, individually and collectively.

“At this point, civil war is one bad joke away from happening,” said Jorge Puertas, 21, ducking the rain outside an early-voting site in Hialeah, Fla. “One misunderstanding.”

By the dismal standards of the times, the election’s very arrival can feel like a feat: Here is a date transpiring as scheduled, unmoved by a president who floated delays that he lacked the authority to impose. Here is a national appointment kept.

It is merely everything else that seems different, especially to the comparative few absorbing it all at close range.

On one side, campaign rallies have often been reduced to car-bound honk-fests, for epidemiology’s sake. On the other, they are undimmed — and discouraged by public health authorities.

Taken together, these last campaign snapshots can double as a sort of rolling testament to national contradiction, rendered often in dizzying succession: the swagger and the nihilism, the faith and the faithlessness (“Jesus 2020: Our Only Hope” is a popular sign choice), the blithe invocation of outright fracture.

“Guillotine 2020,” read another sign displayed on a West Philadelphia porch recently, among the wind chimes and planters. “No More Presidents.”

Mr. Puertas, who said he worked for a local Democratic group and cast his ballot for President Trump anyway to avoid disappointing his grandfather, described his inaugural presidential voting experience like this: “It’s almost like picking your first alcohol. You know it’s not good for you, you know you’re going to feel bad in the morning. But you’ve still got to make that choice at one point or another.”

Most conversations across the ideological expanse tended toward such fatalism almost immediately.

There is the virus to outlive, the opponent to outlast, the threats that must be outrun, many say — eroding liberties, police violence, institutional rot — if the whole enterprise is to endure in recognizable form.

At stake, in their accumulated telling:

“Freedom,” said Anays Garcia, 55, wearing an oversize cutout of Mr. Trump’s face over her own at the Hialeah polling place.

“Our liberation,” said Jasmine Keith, 33, an organizer with Movement 4 Black Lives Atlanta, petitioning in a “Defund Police” mask up the road from a John Lewis mural.

“Kind of feels like everything,” said Elizabeth Miller, 29, cradling a French bulldog named Adelaide outside the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia.

She had come one October evening to take stock of a scene that, like so many others lately, would make little sense to a political time traveler from even the recent past.

The block was the site of a solo television forum with Mr. Biden, scheduled because the second presidential debate was canceled after Mr. Trump’s coronavirus diagnosis and subsequent refusal to appear remotely. But others had gathered, too: climate activists who suspect the Democrat will disappoint them if elected; a presidential spoofer in a red tie, wobbling into traffic with a golf club (“I’m supposed to be mimicking,” the man said, reading the stage directions a bit); a bus-driving visitor with a deafening speaker system and strong feelings about when life begins.

“ABORTION IS MURDER,” he said on a loop, blocking a lane.

“So is ignorance!” Ty Jenkins, 57, hollered back, ticking off coronavirus statistics.

A third man in a Sixers basketball jersey stepped in front of the bus, tried to order the driver out in a hail of expletives, then began an E-A-G-L-E-S chant that no one joined.

Mr. Jenkins went to his parked car and blasted smooth jazz in a futile bid to drown out the driver. He shrugged.

“This,” he said, “is where we go off the rails.”

There is plenty of that this year.

And yet the homestretch has also accommodated flashes of whimsy and community endemic to any campaign. In Reading, Pa., faces swung skyward at the sight of an eagle overhead just before Vice President Mike Pence was to arrive — a sure signal, attendees reasoned, of divine approval for their cause. In Miami Springs, Fla., where Barack Obama visited last week, an eager volunteer cried out “you were my first!” and the former president thanked her, before gently suggesting a rephrasing.

There is also still the merry patter of children tagging along — to the polls, to the rally, to anywhere someone will take them these days: the boy thwacking his forehead with a lawn sign while waiting for the president’s middle son to move the masses at a Lansing, Mich., gravel pit; the girl giggling in her Snow White Halloween costume on a sidewalk in Rome, Ga., fussing under her grandmother’s arm on a recent afternoon as the adults spoke warmly of QAnon conspiracists.

Any Covid-age novelties have generally sorted into one of two categories. There are the bleak-but-necessary turns, like insta-thermometers beside the candidate literature at field offices and the introduction of early-voting venues that moonlight as virus testing locations. And then there are the flourishes that rate as more disorienting than distressing.

Especially popular among Democrats is the distanced car rally, where honks of approval gild stump speeches with the dulcet tones of the Holland Tunnel the Wednesday before Thanksgiving.

“When the auto industry was in trouble, Joe Biden was there …” Honnnnnnnnnnk.

“The United Steelworkers …” Honnnnnnnnnnk.

“I kind of like it better,” said Alannah Garrett, 19, hanging out the window of an orange Mustang at a Jill Biden drive-in event in Saginaw, Mich. “Nobody’s stepping on my shoes.”

Mr. Trump has been less impressed. “You heard a couple of horns. ‘Honk, honk,’” he shared in Lumberton, N.C. last week, after watching Mr. Biden on television. “It’s the weirdest thing.”

But then, Trump campaign affairs have long proceeded at their own speed, virus or not. If anything, the peak-volume cheering and conspicuous fan attire has only accelerated in this urgent political hour, with admiring messages etched on shirts, masks, painted rocks.

His supporters fear a new social order in any Democrat-led future.

“As a middle-aged white male, I’m the target,” T.J. Whipple, 52, said in Reading.

“Normal People for Trump-Pence,” read a poster inside the Cobb County Republican headquarters in Marietta, Ga.

And the loyalties, and occasionally Trump-affiliated histories, run deep.

“He came to thank me for using his hotel,” remembered Julio Martinez, 77, a onetime boxing promoter for shows in Atlantic City decades back and a former mayor of Hialeah, where he stood in a “Vets for Trump” shirt beside a life-size executive cutout. “I told him, ‘One day, you are going to be in politics.’ And he told me the F-word.”

So enthralled are the president’s most devoted charges that praise can flow even for pedestrian acts. In Lansing, the state Republican chairwoman, Laura Cox, appeared to salute Mr. Trump for having worn a hat in inclement weather at a recent rally.

“He was like, ‘I didn’t know it was going to be such gale force winds,’” she said, warming up the crowd for Eric Trump at a sand-and-gravel business. “It was very, very authentic.”

The younger Mr. Trump worked through a catalog of boasts and grievances (“We deal with a lot of rigged processes, guys — we’ll get to Nobel Peace in a second”) and assured those listening that his father’s team had “God on our side.”

“We’re going to get these guys,” he told a well-wisher on the almost entirely unmasked, cheek-to-cheek-selfie rope line afterward. “I promise you.”

In interviews, there was a bipartisan instinct toward such vengeance-seeking — or, at least, the hope that a decisive result on Tuesday (or whenever the counting is done) would amount to a well-earned comeuppance for the losers.

But few seemed convinced that even their desired outcome would deliver catharsis.

“Truthfully, I’m scared if he wins or if he loses,” Derrick Ward, 51, of Philadelphia, said of Mr. Trump, picking up lawn signs at a Biden office. “It’s a boiling point.”

At the Atlanta event, Keyla Ramirez, 18, stood atop a car with a “Black Lives Matter” poster, dancing to a Fugees song someone was playing and recounting how “stupid” she felt casting her first-ever vote, more against Mr. Trump than for his rival.

“We’re not going to get what we want right now,” she said. “But we need that orange pill out.”

This seemed to be the upshot for those moved to participate, however grudgingly, in this particular democratic experiment: This was not the year to stay away.

And maybe, some hoped, the act would prove habit-forming.

Outside Florida’s South Dade Regional Library — where those casting ballots last weekend were greeted with a steel drum band covering Bob Marley and several pop-up cafecito stations — Dennis Valdes, 36, had constructed a tent intended to attract even the leeriest voter with balloons, snacks and “patriotic punch,” spiked for those of age.

A teacher of high school history, Mr. Valdes said he had strained for years to make students understand that any present national despair was not destiny.

“How would John Lewis teach this moment?” he asked. “How would any of our heroes teach this moment?

Eventually, Mr. Valdes spotted two former students, approaching for fist-bumps. “I’m happy for you guys,” he said quickly, playing it cool.

When they were gone, Mr. Valdes lowered his mask enough for a smile to slip.

“First-time voters,” he said. It was a start.

He exhaled, a little, then reached for the punch again.





No.37 article:
Dramatic Rescues After Major Earthquake Kills at Least 39 in Turkey

The magnitude-7.0 quake that struck in the Aegean Sea also killed at least two people in Greece. Hundreds were injured in Turkey and many thousands displaced.

After a day of dramatic rescues, residents in the Turkish city of Izmir clung to hope Saturday night that survivors might still be found in the devastation of the magnitude-7.0 earthquake that killed at least 39 people in Turkey and Greece, injured more than 800 and leveled numerous residential buildings.

“The building is flattened, but I survived,” Oguz Demirkapi, a technology manager who had been rescued from the rubble of his apartment building, said in a video message posted from his hospital bed. He described being pulled from beneath 12 feet of debris.

“Life is beautiful,” Mr. Demirkapi said.

In all, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said late Saturday, more than 100 people had been extracted from the debris of buildings flattened by the Friday afternoon quake, which was centered in the Aegean Sea off Samos, a Greek island near Turkey’s coast.

“We are receiving miraculous news,” Tunc Soyer, the mayor of Izmir, said in a televised interview earlier in the day. Rescue teams, he said, were “working meticulously.”

Rescue efforts continued at nine sites late Saturday night, with officials saying they planned to continue around the clock. Estimates of the missing ranged as high as 180 early Saturday.

The leader of a civilian search and rescue team, Murat Boz, said in a telephone interview that the work would continue “nonstop, without a break, for 24 hours, day and night.”

“We have experienced survival at the 187th hour of a previous earthquake,” Mr. Boz added. “So if we take that as a benchmark, we are at the very beginning.”

“It is out of the question for our hope to fade,’’ he said.

Mr. Erdogan said his government would set aside 24 million Turkish lira, about $2.8 million, to help survivors pay for lodging, furniture and other goods.

In the city’s Bayrakli district alone, which took the brunt of the tremors, 17 buildings collapsed entirely, Serdar Sandal, the district’s mayor, said. He estimated that tens of thousands of people would ultimately be displaced once all the damaged buildings were accounted for.

Many who had escaped unhurt spent Friday night into Saturday morning with blankets over their shoulders, afraid to return home as a wave of aftershocks shook the city. The government said it had provided 10,000 beds and 3,000 tents for them.

‘‘It was an emotionally intense night,’’ Ozgur Ozel, a member of Parliament who represents the region, said of the hours immediately after the quake. ‘‘People waiting at the wreckage of collapsed buildings were feeling that they had a narrow escape — but minutes later they felt there was something wrong as one building was standing while the one next to it collapsed.’’

The earthquake-prone city has many older buildings that are not quake resistant.

“Today what needs to be done is being done, but the important thing is what is to be done on Monday in the cabinet meeting,’’ said Mr. Ozel, an opposition lawmaker, who criticized the government for not taking pre-emptive steps to make buildings more resistant to quakes.

The death toll in and around Izmir rose to at least 37 people on Saturday, Mr. Erdogan said. More than 243 people were being treated in hospitals, including eight in intensive care, he added. Two more people died on the Greek island of Samos.

Dramatic scenes unfolded throughout Saturday. At one apartment building, rescuers focused their efforts on saving five members of a family. After managing to open a tunnel through the rubble, they were able to talk to Seher Perincek, 38, who was trapped along with her 11-year-old twins, 7-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter, according to local news reports.

Finally, 23 hours after the quake, Ms. Perincek and two of her children were removed from the wreckage alive, as seen in pictures shared with the press by local officials. One child had died, news reports said, and rescue workers continued late into the evening in search of the fourth.

“For three hours we communicated with her,” Cem Behar, one of the rescuers who helped Ms. Perincek and her children, said in a televised interview.

“When we first entered, she was hitting the walls to identify where she was,” he added. “As we went further inside the wreckage, we were able to hear her voice, although muffled.”

Joy was tempered with grief at every stop. Rescue workers pulled 20 people alive from a seven-story building in the city, but they also found 12 bodies in the structure, the news agency DHA reported.

Mr. Demirkapi, the technology manager who had been rescued, was in his third-floor apartment in the Bayrakli district, when the tremors started Friday afternoon. He ran to a corner of his apartment and curled up in fetal position, he said, as his home crumbled around him.

“They pulled me out from four meters depth — I was down there for half an hour,” Mr. Demirkapi said. “I was very, very, very lucky — especially after I saw the pictures of the building”





No.38 article:
The President Has Made Selfishness Our National Credo

Trump unleashed our inner Scrooge.

Back in the early 2000s, an academic named Robert Sampson did one of the better-known studies in urban sociology of the past 20 years, discreetly dropping thousands of stamped and addressed letters all over the streets of Chicago. What he was looking for, essentially, was to see which neighborhoods would be most diligent about dropping those letters in mailboxes rather than allowing them to collect footprints on the sidewalk and turn to pulp.

What he discovered was intriguing. One of the best predictors of a letter’s fate had to do with how high a neighborhood measured in what Sampson called “moral cynicism,” or the notion that laws and informal rules weren’t really and truly binding. How he measured moral cynicism was straightforward: He asked thousands of Chicagoans to agree or disagree with a short list of statements.

Laws were made to be broken.

It’s OK to do anything you want as long as you don’t hurt anyone.

To make money, there are no right and wrong ways anymore, only easy ways and hard ways.

In hindsight, Sampson recently told me, one of the weirdest and most chilling things about staring at that list is to see how easily it could double as a declaration of Donald Trump’s worldview. “You know, the idea that it’s all dog-eat-dog,” he said, “or that you’re a chump to care about others.”

Our president has basically spent four years telling an entire nation not to bother dropping lost letters in the mail.

It is cliché at this point to note that Trump has laid waste to our norms and customs, and in so doing, eroded our trust in institutions whose reputations were already in sharp decline (the media and federal government instantly come to mind), as well as our trust in our fellow Americans.

But what Sampson was describing was somehow different, and I think more profound. He was articulating the price of that lost trust: generosity. As a nation, we’ve lost our sense of altruistic and moral purpose, a collective will to do what is decent and right and, as sociologists like to say, “other-regarding.” Instead, we’ve been living in a state benumbed and a benumbed state, in which nihilism prevails and corruption oozes from the very top.

Another way to think about this might be to say that we’ve been living in a noir film. Or that we’re enacting the zero-sum values of reality television. What is it that contestants are so fond of saying? I’m not here to make friends; I’m here to win.

But the point is: Trump has normalized selfishness.

This moral cynicism has not been healthy, and I don’t just mean this in the psychological or spiritual sense. Our lost generosity has cost American lives. A once-in-a-century pandemic strikes, our public health experts eventually tell us all to wear masks for the commonweal, but the president tells us that mask-wearing is one of those rules not to be followed (like paying taxes, like the emoluments clause, like campaign finance laws, like obstructing justice). And so we, an extravagantly wealthy nation, suffer from an extravagant number of deaths.

An altruistic culture, in other words, could have been “its own form of nonpharmacological intervention” in the fight against Covid-19, says Nicholas Christakis, a doctor and sociologist and the author of “Apollo’s Arrow,” a delightfully readable new book about the culture and the coronavirus.

What makes this crisis of generosity all the stranger is that moral cynicism — also sometimes referred to as “legal cynicism” — is generally associated with high levels of poverty and racial isolation, according to Sampson’s work. Yet Trump’s life has been marked by neither. It has in fact been marked by the very opposite: overabundance.

Then again, you could argue, as Kurt Andersen recently did in “Evil Geniuses,” that a certain breed of wealthy American now also thinks that the rules do not apply to it, and that this gang has been enshrining greed-is-good into custom and statute for the past 50 years.

How this particular horseshoe got forged — where the poorest people of color and the most affluent white Americans both came to believe the same thing — could fill its own book. For now, though, it suffices to say that there’s a significant difference between what underlies their moral cynicism. The residents of Sampson’s cynical neighborhoods had understandable reasons to be mistrustful of certain laws and institutions. (Police brutality, lopsided prison sentencing and eviction disparities instantly spring to mind.) The Trumps of the world do not. They are loosening the yoke around their own necks while tightening it around others’.

There is, actually, an argument to be made that the rich were profiting shamelessly from deregulation and small-government reforms at around the same time the epidemic of mass incarceration began.

I came of age under presidents who spoke of our differences as bridgeable, resolvable things. Bill Clinton told us that “there is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America.” George W. Bush defined himself as a “compassionate conservative” and “a uniter, not a divider.” Barack Obama made his national debut with a keynote address that declared, “We worship an awesome God in the blue states” and “we’ve got some gay friends in the red states.”

These lines may always have been a fiction, or at least a partial fiction. During their presidencies, jails filled, factories shut, and the nation spun off a breakaway republic of the 1 percent. Maybe it was only a matter of time before a president like Trump came along who took such a Hobbesian view of humanity. Moral cynicism “taps the darker side of human nature,” as Sampson wrote in “Great American City,” his book about the importance of community culture in defining neighborhoods.

But the tension between preserving individual prerogatives and the common good is as old as America itself. Our sense of moral purpose, while fragile, has generally proved recoverable enough for us to make progress.

What’s so agonizing now is that we’re all waiting to see whether it is again. Joe Biden has staked his entire campaign on his decency, his moral vision, his old-fashioned belief that one should love thy neighbor as thyself. A Trump campaign adviser may have sneeringly compared the former vice president to Mister Rogers during the candidates’ dueling town halls a couple of weeks ago. But it is Fred Rogers’s words that are repeatedly — at this point tiresomely, almost embarrassingly — invoked during times of national crisis. “Look for the helpers,” he urged children to do when they’re frightened. “You will always find people who are helping.”

If Trump and his allies disdain the idea of a man who believes in the human capacity to help, it says all you need to know about them. And if we, as a nation, choose a man who’s reminiscent of a beloved minister to be our next president, it’ll say something desperately needed — and at long last reassuring — about us.





No.39 article:
40 Dead, Now 40 Laid Off: Inside a Nursing Home in Crisis

On a recent morning in Staten Island, the quiet at Clove Lakes Health Care and Rehabilitation Center was unsettling. Employees in sanitary gowns and face masks moved through a brightly decorated front area devoid of residents or chatter.

Six months ago, the nursing home was one of the deadliest places in the city, with 40 residents dying in the course of a month. Now the workers who cared for them, sometimes holding their hands as they died, face a second crisis: The home recently laid off more than 40 employees, and others fear they will be next.

“It’s not good,” said Jeanna Engelman, a speech pathologist at the home, speaking with an openness that has been rare among nursing home workers. In the worst times, the intensity of the work built camaraderie among the staff, fueled by fear and the risks they shared. But now, she said, all they can do is worry. “Every time we get paged, we wonder why.”

Theirs are the untold stories of the pandemic: the nursing home workers who reported daily to the viral hot zones, often in facilities without proper protective equipment, and who now face a fiscal crisis beyond their control. Most never spoke publicly about their experiences because the homes did not let them.

At Clove Lakes, the administration allowed the photographer Christopher Occhicone inside beginning in April, when two units were filled with Covid-positive residents. Employees have spoken with rare candor about their experiences, both during the first wave, when people did not know who would die or get sick tomorrow, and in the current financial crash, when they worry about when the next layoffs will strike.

The crisis is not unique to Clove Lakes. In an August survey of homes nationwide, more than half said they were operating at a loss, and nearly three-quarters said they could not last another year if things did not change.

“It’s horrible,” said Lorri Senk, the administrator at Clove Lakes, where revenues have fallen by half, even with the infection rate now close to zero, because patients are afraid to go there. “People are being told by the doctors at the hospital, ‘Don’t take your mother to a nursing home.’

“And you have certain family members who just won’t pay. They’ll say, ‘I have to keep my mother’s Social Security check this month because I lost my job.’”

For the employees, the story of the pandemic begins with the most basic question: How do you go to work when you know that the next shift might be the one that kills you or your loved ones?

Often, what they talked about was Lana.

Lana Bass met her husband at Hunter College in the late 1990s. They were both Ukrainian, studying for careers in health care. She chose geriatrics. “It makes you feel like you’re making a significant change,” she said last month in a telephone interview.

Her first job brought her to Staten Island and Clove Lakes, a for-profit home in the Manor Heights neighborhood with 576 beds and a staff of about 600. The home has above-average ratings from Medicare and below-average ratings from New York’s health department, which compares it to other homes in the state.

When the coronavirus surfaced in New York nursing homes in March, her husband was working as a physician assistant at Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn, she as a physical therapist at the hulking pale brick structure of Clove Lakes. In those early days, there were no tests available for nursing home workers or residents. Information about the virus, and about how to keep safe, changed almost daily.

“I was worried for myself, for my family,” Ms. Bass said. “You’re scared, you’re uncertain about tomorrow, but you know your responsibilities. You just keep going.”

Then in the middle of March her husband got sick; a few days later, she did as well, probably through contact with him. Her symptoms were mild, akin to a cold. His case was more serious.

“He went to the doctor’s office and then to the hospital right away,” Ms. Bass said. “He was OK. And then everything failed.”

Her husband was still in the hospital, on a ventilator, when she returned to Clove Lakes around April 8, after a week of illness and two weeks of isolation.

“I felt really numb,” she said. “I was worried about my husband, but I knew I had to hold down the fort. I had no other options, of course.” She agreed to work in the newly established Covid unit at the home because she had already had the virus.

In April, the staff arrived in the mornings not knowing which resident would die that day, which risks they would have to take. Though the home provided ample masks and gowns, the work made social distancing impossible. At night, they watched news reports calling New York’s nursing homes the deadliest places in America.

“People were very afraid,” Ms. Engelman said. “But nursing is a calling. When someone was urging me, ‘Leave there, now’ — how do I not do this? These are my people. I can’t leave them. Of course I’m going to do this.

“Every day I’d come to work and find another one is gone. It was very heartbreaking. I still think of my patient Lisa, who was in her 60s. I’d go to her unit every day to watch her die.”

Shawn McArthur, a certified nursing assistant, was about to take a vacation to Japan when the pandemic hit. Instead of traveling, he stayed home and considered not returning to Clove Lakes.

“I saw my closest co-workers infected by the virus, and we were losing people,” he said. “Friends told me that emergency rooms were packed, and there were no ventilators, so don’t go to the hospital if you get sick.” He put off treatment for a bad toothache because he was afraid to go to the dentist.

He was living with his girlfriend, a swim coach who writes comic books, as he does. He wrote a personal letter and left it in one of his books, “just in case anything happens to me,” he said. “I tried to keep it inside, but it was very scary.”

When the state closed down swimming pools, his job at Clove Lakes became the couple’s only source of income. Staying home was no longer an option.

“When I came back, the supervisors and directors were staying in the home all night, and asking anyone to take extra shifts. Usually I don’t do that, but I volunteered because I knew that was going to happen anyway.” At home, he feared carrying the virus to his girlfriend’s mother and aunt, who lived in the same house, so he would strip his clothes and put them in the washer every time he returned.

At Clove Lakes, the virus shut down all of their ordinary activities, changing the relationships between the workers and the residents. The administration worked to get masks, gowns and other protective equipment, which many homes lacked. “We were wearing hazmat suits,” Mr. McArthur said, adding that it felt like being in a sauna. “I lost a lot of pounds. So I didn’t catch the quarantine weight like everybody else did.”

The emotional stress was unrelenting, he said. Once employees reported to the Covid unit, they could not leave or see other colleagues until the day’s end. Residents, especially those with dementia, often did not understand why their relatives were not visiting, why they could not leave their rooms and be with their neighbors for meals or activities.

“The worst was when you had to tell them they had to go back in their room, because the resident in the next room passed away, and you have to put them in a body bag,” Mr. McArthur said.

“One day you’ll see an ambulette come in and haul someone out and they’ll never come back,” Mr. McArthur said. “It is the worst experience to have.” Each death took a toll on the staff, but there was no time to grieve, he said. “You develop chemistry with someone, and it’s like they’re part of the family or a close friend. And we are all they have sometimes, especially after they stopped having visitors.”

The home did not provide counselors to help the staff deal with stress, but directed them to a hotline set up by the state office of mental health, Ms. Senk, the administrator, said.

Ingrid Wiesel, a physical therapist at the home, was surprised when she was assigned to work in a Covid unit. At 64, she said, she was at greater risk than some of her younger colleagues who declined the assignment.

But when the home moved her back into the general population after five weeks, because there were no longer enough patients in quarantine, she felt let down.

“I missed the intensity of it,” she said. “The work was very hard emotionally, because you wanted to give to the patients. Sometimes you didn’t know if they recognized you, because we all looked the same with all the PPE. But when it was over and they took me off that floor, it was sad. I had gotten used to the intimacy.”

As the nursing home scrambled to control the virus, a second crisis was building. Hospitals were no longer performing elective surgeries, so they were not sending patients to the home for short-term rehabilitation, which is the financial lifeblood of all nursing homes. Facilities lose money on long-term care residents, whose stays are typically paid for by Medicaid, and make it up on short-term rehab patients, whose care is subsidized more generously by Medicare.

As revenue dropped, the cost of masks and other protective equipment “started to soar,” Ms. Senk said. “Things were triple and quadruple in price. A box of gloves went from $2 to $30. A gown that was 50 cents went to $8.50, and $14 from one vendor. Our director of nursing would meet vendors out on the street to feel the quality of what they were selling. It was almost like they were selling them out of the trunk of their cars. It was scary. But we did what we had to do.”

Since the spring, the home has spent more than $500,000 to test every resident and employee once a week, Ms. Senk said.

Ms. Bass was at Clove Lakes in April when the hospital called to say that her husband had died. She ran out of the home, followed by two co-workers. This was a blow for all of them. They had worked so close to death among the people they cared for. Now death had come for one of them as well.

“We were absolutely hysterical,” Ms. Engelman said. “I started crying, almost screaming. It became real. Somebody you know died. Now you have to put on that Martian gear and go back in and face it. I entered the unit not recognizing anybody.

“I went home and called a friend, crying,” she said.

Afterward, Ms. Bass got the facility to change her job status from longtime temporary worker to a permanent staff position. The job has kept her from falling apart, she said. But this, too, caused some tension. As the number of residents continued to drop, Ms. Bass’s appointment might mean someone else would have to go.

“Nice of them to do that,” Ms. Wiesel said of Ms. Bass’s hiring. “But who do they choose to let go?”

As the summer wore on, the infection rate plummeted, but few new patients moved into Clove Lakes. The home cut down on overtime and stopped filling positions when employees left. Some workers were asked to skip shifts.

Mr. McArthur, who had volunteered for extra shifts during the worst of the outbreak, agreed to take time off, even though, with his girlfriend not working, he needed the money. The spring had left him shaken.

“Because the job gets to you,” he said. He questioned whether he wanted to even be a nursing assistant. “I realized, no, this will be it. I’ve taken all I can take, and I’ve given enough, and it hurts every time. I continue to work and punch in, but I know these are my final days there.”

For the home, federal stimulus money helped address its increased costs, but the funding was distributed among the nation’s nursing homes according to their size, not recognizing that some — like those in New York City — were hit harder by the virus, said Mark Parkinson, president of the American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living, a trade organization. His group called for a second round of stimulus to offset the decreased revenues. “If that happens, we can get into the spring,” he said. “If not, a lot of these facilities won’t survive.”

As the number of residents at Clove Lakes continued the drop this fall, rumors circulated among the staff: that the home would cut all workers who contracted through agencies — or, conversely, that it would require all staff to work only through the agencies. The home felt safer, medically. But morale dimmed without parties in the lunchroom, and always there were worries about what job cuts were coming, said Mariam Mettias, a certified occupational therapist assistant.

“I’m just going with the flow at this point, trying to save more,” Ms. Mettias said. “I’m cutting back on food, not going out. I had to use box color on my hair. I messed up the bathroom because the box color stained. I couldn’t take it anymore.”

Ms. Wiesel said she did not know which scared her more, the virus or the job insecurity. With so many cutbacks throughout the industry, if Clove Lakes lets her go, she does not know where she will find another job.

“You don’t know the unknown,” she said. “The administration is going to say one day, ‘These people have got to go.’ That’s why I don’t complain, I just work. I’ve been a therapist for 42 years. I’m still dedicated. I’m not burned out. I don’t have the energy I used to have.”

The way out of the crisis is not clear. Neither Ms. Senk nor Mr. Parkinson, of the trade association, suggested structural changes, instead placing their hopes on a vaccine to bring people back to nursing homes. But older people’s immune systems do not always produce the antibodies that make vaccines effective.

In the meantime, this month Clove Lakes passed its second week without a positive test, which meant it could allow family visitors inside for the first time since March — if they made an appointment, and if they had negative test results within the past week. The first day there were two visitors, including one who said she planned to sue the home over a financial dispute.

Within a week, an employee tested positive, which ended visitation for at least another two weeks. The next day a resident tested positive. In a half-empty nursing home, she now has a whole floor to herself.





No.40 article:
‘Wagner’s Music is Bombastic and Boring’ and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

John Adams’s review of “Wagnerism,” by Alex Ross (Oct. 18), presents one view of Wagner and his music. Here are two quotes about Wagner and music:

For this listener, Wagner’s music is bombastic and boring. I would rather listen to music by Conlon Nancarrow and Gyorgy Ligeti.

Charles Edwin Myers Bethesda, Md.

Slim MarginsTo the Editor:

In his review of Tim Weiner’s “The Folly and the Glory” (Oct. 18), Rajan Menon writes that “Putin’s machinations certainly mattered” during the 2016 election campaign, “but Donald Trump’s rise reflects much more important changes within the United States in recent decades that widened societal divisions and increased political polarization.” Many others have issued similar dismissals of the Russian interventions.

Why is it so hard to acknowledge that, with a 77,000-vote margin separating Trump’s vote from Clinton’s in 2016, the Kremlin’s disinformation efforts were by themselves decisive — along with other factors and forces? “Reflects” is the wrong word.

Todd GitlinNew York

To the Editor:

In his review of “The Secret Life of Groceries” (Oct. 18), Nick Summers assures us that the author, Benjamin Lorr, was “not on an Upton Sinclair quest to nauseate readers into changing their consumption habits.”

This reminds us that Sinclair, a committed socialist who dedicated “The Jungle” to the workingmen of America, was disappointed by his book’s impact. “I aimed for the public’s heart,” Sinclair later wrote, “and by accident hit it in the stomach.”

Jon KuklaRichmond, Va.

In Another LifeTo the Editor:

I was delighted that Claire Messud — a writer whose novels I enjoy and admire — said in her By the Book interview (Oct. 18) that she is a fan of Alain-Fournier’s “Le Grand Meaulnes.” Messud wonders what he would have written next had he survived World War I. In fact, before he was killed he’d been working on a novel, “Colombe Blanchet,” which was much influenced by his love affair with Pauline Benda, whose stage name was Madame Simone and whose cousin was Julien Benda.

I found the early drafts of this unfinished novel in a French secondhand bookshop, put together by some Italian academics who had found it and tried to organize its very messy character, marked with the instructions in capitals: “This is not to be published.” It fascinated me and led me to write my novel “The Lost Love Letters of Henri Fournier,” in 2018.

Readers of Alain-Fournier (his pen name — he was Henri-Alban Fournier in real life) in the United States seem to be few and far between, but Julian Barnes in England has also written about him appreciatively, having rediscovered him in his 60s.

Rosalind BrackenburyKey West, Fla.

♦

To the Editor:

I appreciated the shoutout to Sally Wainwright in Claire Messud’s By the Book interview. Artists fear for their intellectual street cred if they even admit to watching TV, let alone praise some aspect of it. I’m a composer long ago branded as “classical,” so I know this territory.

I have often thought that Wainwright should be remembered as one of the best writers of her generation. On my list, I also include the brilliant TV screenwriter and producer Juana Uribe (“La Niña,” “Bolívar,” “Amar y Vivir”), who even when working in the conventions of telenovela presents human situations, interactions and conversations that rival the best novels. And keeps that going for 60 to 70 episodes.

Peter Hannan Vancouver, British Columbia

To the Editor:

David Kipen’s review of Peter Lunenfeld’s “City at the Edge of Forever” (Oct. 18) looks for a “thesis with which to think about the city.”

Los Angeles is not a mere city! Think of it more as a five-county region, spreading across 4,571 square miles encompassing the five counties of California’s southland region. Los Angeles as we know it today qualifies for inclusion among the world’s 33 megacities.

John McPhee, far afield from his home base in New Jersey, aptly fixes Los Angeles within an expansive frame as a “multinamed urban integrity.”

Michael H. Ebner Lake Forest, Ill.





No.41 article:
Trump Camp Uses Online Gimmick to Fuel Donations Into December

The Trump campaign is now automatically checking a box to create recurring weekly donations from supporters until mid-December.

President Trump’s campaign is raising money for a prolonged political and legal fight long after Nov. 3 and recently began automatically checking a box to withdraw additional weekly contributions from online donors through mid-December — nearly six weeks after Election Day.

Predicting “FRAUD like you’ve never seen,” the language on Mr. Trump’s website opts contributors into making the weekly post-election donations “to ensure we have the resources to protect the results and keep fighting even after Election Day.” Users must proactively click to avoid making multiple contributions.

The unusual post-election revenue stream would help Mr. Trump pay off any bills that his campaign accumulates before Tuesday — a campaign spokesman said no such debts had been incurred — and could help fund a lengthy legal fight if the results are contested.

“This race will be very close, and it is possible that multiple states will require recounts and potential additional spending from our campaign,” said Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for Mr. Trump’s campaign. “The election process this year is under extraordinary circumstances, and we are also anticipating that Silicon Valley will attempt to interfere with our online fund-raising efforts post-election.”

Democrats said automatically opting contributors into post-election giving was a misleading tactic.

“They’re inventing new deceptive tactics to essentially steal money from people,” said Mike Nellis, a Democratic digital strategist with an expertise in fund-raising. “They’re going completely and totally scorched earth on their own supporters. I’ve never seen anything like this in my life.”

Mr. Murtaugh said that no one would receive a “recurring charge without their knowledge” and that donors could opt out of recurring contributions both before donating and afterward. “Three days before each recurring charge, donors are emailed a reminder that the charge is about to occur,” he said. “There is a one-click link inside this email for donors to cancel if they wish. Our process is extremely transparent.”

“When the recount or litigation process ends,” Mr. Murtaugh added, “the recurring payments will end.&quot;

The extra donations are just the latest hyperaggressive tactic employed by the Trump operation as it struggles to keep up financially with Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign. On Friday, the campaign promised supporters that their contributions would be matched “1000%,” after months of ratcheting up the levels of matches that campaign experts said almost surely do not actually exist. (The Trump campaign declined to say if the matches were real; Mr. Murtaugh said only that it was a “common fund-raising approach” used by both parties)

“Today in record-breaking achievements of grift,” Caitlin Mitchell, a top digital strategist for Mr. Biden, wrote mockingly on Twitter of the purported 1,000 percent match. The Biden campaign said it had never offered donation matches.

The Trump email, which had two flashing light emojis in the subject line, was one of 21 that blitzed supporters’ accounts on Friday — nearly one per hour — almost all of which asked for money. For comparison, the Biden campaign sent eight emails on Friday.

In the final stretch of the 2020 race, Mr. Trump is being dramatically outspent on the airwaves, and as of Oct. 14, his campaign treasury had dwindled to $43.6 million, with $1.2 million in debts. Mr. Biden’s campaign reported $162 million cash on hand that day.

Combined with party funds, Mr. Trump had about $224 million, compared with $335 million for Mr. Biden, but party funds cannot be used to pay for many key costs, including campaign personnel and most advertising costs beyond a strict limit. Since then, Mr. Trump’s campaign canceled a net total of about $19 million in reserved television ads, according to data from Advertising Analytics, and the Republican National Committee stepped in to pay for the ads instead, using the limited funds it can spend in coordination with the campaign.

Mr. Trump has taken to addressing the financial disadvantage directly at his rallies. “I could have been the greatest political fund-raiser,” he said Saturday in Pennsylvania, saying he had avoided shaking down wealthy interests for more money.

“We have plenty,” he said. “You can only buy so many commercials.”

It has been a different message to his supporters online, where his campaign has cranked out more frequent and more intense cash solicitations.

The Twitter account @TrumpEmail, which has cataloged all of Mr. Trump’s email solicitations for nearly three years, provided The New York Times with access to its database, which shows Mr. Trump’s climbing number of monthly emails this year — from January (63) to May (159) to July (239) to September (330) and roughly 400 in October.

Many messages employ shaming tactics to prod backers into giving. “The President selected YOU to be a part of this exclusive group, so he was really surprised when we told him you STILL hadn’t stepped up,” read one recent email urging people to donate and activate a “2020 Trump Diamond Card.” Gold and platinum cards have also been dangled for donations.

Patrick Ruffini, a Republican pollster who previously worked in digital fund-raising, said the Trump campaign’s digital marketing tactics mirrored Mr. Trump’s personality.

“The president doesn’t have a filter, and there aren’t a lot of restraints on what they’ll say or do from a fund-raising standpoint either,” Mr. Ruffini said. He called the campaign an “optimization machine” designed to maximize revenue above all else.

“The matching inflation is a running joke,” Mr. Ruffini said of the promised phantom matches that have climbed from 500 percent in May to 600 percent in June, 700 percent in July and, occasionally, 900 percent — and now 1,000 percent in October.

Julia Rosen, a Democratic digital fund-raising specialist, compared that tactic to “giving kids candy instead of their Wheaties”: a temporary sugar high followed by a crash. “If you start off offering donors matches, they like that, and it becomes a situation where then they’ll only give if you give them a match,” she said.

“They have optimized themselves into absurdity and parody,” she added of the Trump campaign.

Privately, some Republicans wonder if Mr. Trump’s campaign deployed such tactics far too early, exhausting a supporter list that had been considered one of its strongest assets. At this point, however, most see little downside to the most aggressive marketing tactics, arguing that the risk of turning off supporters was no worse than losing the election.

Mr. Trump’s campaign has used a tool created by WinRed, the donation-processing site, that automatically opts supporters into making additional donations for months, and it has generated millions of dollars, according to people familiar with the matter. As far back as June, the campaign had asked supporters to give a second donation timed to Mr. Trump’s birthday. The campaign announced a record-breaking $14 million online haul that day but did not mention that it had piled up promised contributions in advance.

ActBlue, the Democratic donation-processing site, began removing a feature that automatically opted donors into recurring donations from its platform earlier this year. A representative said that no candidates were now using that tool but declined further comment. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, however, still does use the opt-in tool for automatic monthly donations.

The Biden campaign has directed some Facebook ads to existing donors specifically seeking to convert them to weekly and monthly contributors, and the landing pages after people click on those ads have the recurring donation option prechecked.

Mr. Trump’s advisers had once promised that he was building a digital “juggernaut,” but a groundswell of support for Mr. Biden has helped the Democratic challenger lap the incumbent financially since the summer.

The total hauls online via WinRed for Mr. Trump’s campaign itself and the Trump Make America Great Again committee, which he operates jointly with the R.N.C. to raise small donations, rose only marginally from $91.1 million in July to $106.1 million in August to $118.5 million in September. At the same time, Mr. Biden’s online hauls in his equivalent committees exploded from $46 million in July to $191 million in August and $193 million in September.

And in the final stretch, Mr. Trump’s campaign is still spending heavily to raise money.

The Trump Make America Great Again Committee spent $32 million as it raised $36.9 million in the first two weeks of October — a burn rate of nearly 87 percent, according to federal filings. Some of that advertising for donors did double duty mobilizing Mr. Trump’s base.

Mr. Murtaugh said a more “accurate view of fund-raising” would include costs across the campaign, R.N.C. and all their joint committees, which he said was 34 percent from Oct. 1 to Oct. 14, and that had shrunk to 25 percent since Oct. 15.

“It’s clear they are just trying to squeeze every penny out of this thing while they still can,” said Mr. Nellis, the Democratic strategist.





No.42 article:
The Year of Blur

For Kate Baer, a poet in Harrisburg, Pa., 2020 feels like a time warp. She compared it to when she and four friends escaped to a woodsy cabin in Maryland and tried cannabis edibles. “Time stopped,” Ms. Baer, 35, said. “And this is how time feels in this pandemic. Fluid and very confusing.”

Avi Bonnerjee, 34, a tech analyst from Brooklyn, said that 2020 recalls the “ambient sense of timelessness” of Los Angeles. “In New York, each season has such a distinct character, there’s always a passive sense of forward progression,” he said. “In L.A., you’re in a perpetual state of warm weather, so you seem to hang in some sort of purgatorial state.”

To Dulci Edge, 34, a consulting creative director in fashion in San Francisco, 2020 reminds her of the old parenting adage: “The days are long, but the years are short.” Except in the pandemic, she said, “the days are long, and the year is also long.”

Do you feel like time has no boundaries anymore, that the days just bleed into weeks, that January may as well have been 2017?

You’re not alone if you feel that 2020, perhaps the most dramatic and memorable year of our lifetimes — and that’s before Election Day — seems shuffled and disordered, like a giant blur. A dream state, or perhaps a nightmare.

That’s the paradox of 2020, or one of them: A year so momentous also feels, in a way, as if nothing happened at all.

It’s not entirely an illusion. Without the usual work mixers, festive holiday celebrations, far-flung vacations or casual dinners that typically mark and divide the calendar, the brain has a harder time processing and cataloging memories, psychologists say, and the stress of the year itself can shift how our brains experience time.

What month did Kobe Bryant die? Was it actually this year that Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, de-royaled themselves? Wasn’t there something about murder hornets, or was that 2018?

Are we unable to remember this awful year, or simply unwilling?

For some who have recovered from Covid-19, there is a medical explanation for the feeling of mental haziness: Covid brain fog, a lingering combination of dementia-like symptoms including memory loss, confusion and difficulty focusing.

What about everyone else? For many, the year has been a monumentally odd mix of crisis, either experienced personally or witnessed in the news, and boredom. And for many of us, life in the age of lockdown consists of seeking out novel ways to escape isolation while not bingeing too heavily on the tragedy in the headlines.

Alcohol consumption is up by 14 percent (and 17 percent for women) compared with a year ago, according to recent report in the JAMA Network Open. Makers of cannabis vape pens and cartridges are reportedly seeing booming sales in states where marijuana is legal.

But maybe the sense of jumbled chronology is not just in our heads — or rather, it actually is. Sheer monotony has the ability to warp time and tangle our memories, psychologists say, with quarantines and lockdowns robbing us of the “boundary events” that normally divide the days, like chapters in a book.

Without breaks in a repetitive routine, the mind has difficulty differentiating between memories, which psychologists call pattern separation, said Lucy Cheke, a psychologist and lecturer at Cambridge University who is researching the effects of the pandemic on memory.

That might explain why Ms. Edge, the creative director from San Francisco, can’t tell what day it is sometimes.

“The usual time markers are gone, so everything is bleeding together into one amorphous blob of days,” she said. “It just keeps going and going in a way that reminds me of my teenage years. Like, high school was four years long, but it might as well have been 40. I remember feeling like I was watching paint dry, just kind of going through the motions until graduation day when my real life could begin.”

It doesn’t help that so much of our lives are virtual now, happening only on screens. Instead of stimulating our senses in real life — going to shops, meeting friends for coffee, chatting with colleagues in the office — we FaceTime when the mood strikes, we binge Netflix shows from three years ago and we browse Amazon perpetually. We lose that sense of grounding, in place and time.

“Normally, there’s a good deal of variety in our lives, so this makes that process a lot easier,” Dr. Cheke said. “If you had lunch at your desk at work on Monday, that makes it easy to distinguish from eating in a cafe on Tuesday.”

It all adds up to the blur. Does anything change?

Last spring, Ashley C. Ford, a writer in Indianapolis, packed away her sweaters and winter coats, wondering what the world might look like half a year later when she finally unpacked them.

“I took them out two weeks ago,” Ms. Ford, 33, said, “and it’s all the same.”

If one problem is that there is too little going on in our lives, another problem, it seems, is that there is also too much.

A remarkable thing about this year is that it’s marked not by one big crisis alone, but a giant stack of them: a killer virus blended with political chaos, environmental catastrophe, racial strife. The list goes on.

It is a “cascading series of events that just doesn’t seem to stop,” said Alison Holman, a professor of nursing and psychological science at University of California, Irvine, who studies the psychological effects of shared crises, including the current pandemic.

The unending sense of crisis is an “ongoing, chronic stressor” that can lead to  a collapse of the reassuring sense that our lives move in orderly fashion: past, present, future, which is key to mental stability. Instead, many of us feel stuck in a lousy present with little sense of the future.

In researching the psychological repercussions of devastating Southern California wildfires in the 1990s, Dr. Holman said that victims felt like “time slowed down&quot; and “the days blurred together.” “Their sense of reality changes,” she said. “They’re not sure what’s real anymore. They feel a sense of a blur, like time is just a blur.” 

“This is particularly true of young people,” she added, “who have a lot of life ahead of them.”

Trying to plan a future has been a challenge for Emily Caldwell, a senior at the University of Texas at Austin. “It’s rough,” said Ms. Caldwell, 22, who is studying Latin American studies and journalism. “I feel like I’m just treading water right now.” 

Before the coronavirus, she hoped to move to New York, San Francisco or Washington, D.C., and get an internship at a magazine. Now, many magazines’ websites include messages to prospective interns along the lines of, “As of May 2020, this program has been suspended for the foreseeable future.”

“For the ‘foreseeable future’?” she said. “When is it going to be normal again?”

Yes, we’re doing less. Yes, we’re worrying more. And too often, we’re doing less and worrying more alone, cut off from friends, family and colleagues.

Isolation itself can also distort the shape of the days, weeks and months, said Craig W. Haney, a psychology professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who studies the effects of isolation in one of its most extreme examples: prisoners in solitary confinement.

“This is not to say that the deprivations are in any way comparable to the deprivations a lot of us are facing now,” Dr. Haney said. “They’re not. But even people in solitary confinement will tell you that the essence of that experience is something we’re all experiencing now — the deprivation of normal social contact. And human beings really do depend on each other to structure our lives and tell us who we are.”

In isolation, whether relative or extreme, “there aren’t any psychological anchors in time and space that human beings ordinarily provide for us,” Dr. Haney added. It is easy to just drift. 

And for plenty of people, pandemic isolation has also been accompanied by geographical relocation — urbanites who have fled to the suburbs or the country, young people who have moved back home to live with their families — which can mess with their sense of time on a macro scale. What happened to the familiar chronology of their old lives? What stage of life are they actually in?

That may explain why Eric Kim, a food writer who moved from New York to live with his parents in an Atlanta suburb, spends so much time thinking about his homecoming king crown, which he found in his childhood bedroom closet.

“It’s really ironic that it’s in the closet, because I was closeted when I was in high school,” Mr. Kim, 29, said. “I feel like I’m in my high school body again.”

As he hunkers over the stove alongside his mother, just like in his teens, preparing recipes for a cookbook on Korean home cooking, life becomes a time warp. “It’s hard to see the future because time is moving very slowly,” Mr. Kim said. “I feel like I’ve been here for a year, but I’ve actually been in Atlanta for three months.”

Whether you’re talking about the devastating Spanish flu of 1918 or the current crisis, “a pandemic screws up our sense of time,” said Laura Spinney, the author of the 2017 book “Pale Rider: The Spanish Flu of 1918 and How It Changed the World.”

Then, as now, the mental exhaustion from the relentless sameness can lead some people to try to impose an artificial endpoint on the pandemic. “We’ve all had basically enough of wearing our masks and having our lives disrupted,” Ms. Spinney said, “which is what we’re seeing now with Covid fatigue.”

That’s one approach to dealing with a pandemic where time seemingly has no meaning. The other is simply to go with it.

For Taryn Southern, a futurist and documentary filmmaker in Los Angeles, the pandemic time warp of 2020 feels eerily similar to 2019, when her busy professional life ground to a halt as she underwent chemotherapy for Stage 3 breast cancer.

“You don’t know if you’re going to end up in the good or the bad side of fate,” Ms. Southern, 34, said. “It’s impossible to plan anything. You actually lose all sense of space and time because you’re just too sick to interact or engage with the world in a normal way. I learned to just accept the insanity and take an absurdist view.”

No wonder some people are imposing artificial structure on their days to anchor themselves in reality. Matt Buechele, an unemployed comedian in New York who has been racking up likes with his comic riffs about pandemic life on Instagram, keeps a journal to remind himself “that another day has ended,” he said, “and that, for better or worse, another one will begin tomorrow.”

Or perhaps we just need to remember that time is a human construct.

Greta Titelman, an actress in Los Angeles, was in Chile shooting episodes for “Los Espookys,” a Spanish-language HBO comedy, when production shut down. Despite her career being largely on hold, Ms. Titelman said she has actually enjoyed the “simplified version” of time over the past eight months.

“Why don’t we evolve out of time?” Ms. Titelman, 30, said. “Time just makes everyone anxious. We’re always in competition with it: We overslept, we’re running late. I always had this feeling like, ‘I need to finish something this week, or something bad will happen.’”

“Turns out,&quot; she added, “that’s not true.”





No.43 article:
How an Urban Beekeeper Spends His Sundays

Nick Hoefly tends to bees among the tombs of Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn. Happy Halloween.

Five years ago, Nick Hoefly picked up his first queen bee in Pennsylvania, and drove her, along with 12,000 of her buzzing subjects, to their new home — his home — in Queens.

Within months his bees had more than doubled, to 30,000. “It was terrifying to deal with them,” said Mr. Hoefly, 35. But it was exciting, too, he added. “It was the same exhilaration when you go over the first drop of a roller coaster.”

He ordered more hives, which produced honey, which Mr. Hoefly started to sell. What was once a hobby developed into a business. Now Mr. Hoefly and his wife, Ashley Hoefly, 34, a financial director at Columbia University, are the owners of Astor Apiaries, a full-service bee company.

“This will be a good honey year,” Mr. Hoefly said. “With everyone staying home, there was less disruption of green spaces and more forages for the bees. Bees don’t know there’s a pandemic. They just know the dandelions that are usually mowed down weren’t.”

The Hoeflys live with their son, Parker, 5, and daughter, Olivia, 3, in Astoria.

GREASY SPOON D.I.Y. I’m up at 7 because we hear the kids playing. My wife starts breakfast. I come down 15 to 30 minutes later and make coffee, black with sugar. Before Covid we’d go to the Neptune Diner or Mike’s Diner, which are in our neighborhood. I love diners. Now we have breakfast at home: pancakes, French toast or eggs and bacon.

RADIO LISTENER I get into my Toyota Camry. Bee boxes and tools are in the back seat. I drive down the B.Q.E., listening to whatever is on the radio for the next 40 minutes until I get to Green-Wood Cemetery, one of our clients.

STACKED BEES I pick up equipment and clean up the bee room at Green-Wood, which can get sticky from all the honey. They have 20 hives that are in two areas. Their hive style is called Langstroth boxes, which are stacked on top of each other and look like filing cabinets. They own the bees and honey; I’m hired to take care of them.

GEAR When I get out of the car I pull out my bee jacket. It’s not a full astronaut suit, but it does have a mesh veil attached to it that flips over my head and zips around my neck. I don’t have any aggressive bees so I’m not as worried about my legs.

IT STINGS My goal is to make bees, as opposed to honey, so it’s more of a hive nursery. I pull out frames and make sure the queen bees haven’t died and that she’s laying eggs, which can be 2,000 per day right now. I also check that nothing is causing disease. A lot can go wrong. I’ve been stung over 500 times. It always hurts. The sting is like a needle. The venom, when it goes in, is what causes the sting. I’ve not built up a tolerance, but I’ve gotten smarter. I don’t bump them or elicit anything that causes defensive behavior.

HIVES AMONG TOMBSTONES During fall and winter, bees start to die so I drop off the unused boxes in the bee room. During summer we might have 50,000 to 60,000 per box. Right now it’s about 30,000. The hives are among the tombstones. I admire the architecture and art in the monuments, but there are no ghostly hauntings. People can walk up to a hive if they want, but I don’t recommend it. They watch me and take photos. I answer questions and explain what I’m doing. When the pandemic hit there was a huge surge of people who wanted to get out of their houses and walk around the cemetery. Now it’s normal attendance.

HONEY ON THE MOVE On the way home I’ll deliver a case of our honey to one of the cheese shops that sell them, like Monger’s Palate or Murray’s Cheese. I’m also working with some bartenders for the Aberfeldy Gardening Giveback Project, which grows community-style gardens of herbs, flowers and plants for bees to pollinate. The bartenders use the herbs and honey in their cocktails. It’s hard to do during Covid, but it’s a good way to bring attention to pollinators. I drop off honey to them as well.

CHECK-IN I’m home by 2. I check on the kids and kiss my wife, who, during this time, might have reorganized part of our apartment. She’s also getting her master’s, so she might be working on a paper. I’ll chill for a bit and make a ham sandwich.

ENERGY BURN Last month I started taking the kids to Astoria Park again to burn energy from 2:30 to 4. We live on a community block with older folks who are like grandparents to my kids. For months we’ve been standing on the sidewalk and speaking to them from their door. When Covid started, we ordered a monthly subscription activity box called KiwiCo crate. We’re trying to find ways to keep them motivated. Last week we built kites and flew them in the park. Or they ride their scooters on the walking paths.

‘BLUEY’ AND A BITE My wife starts making dinner around 4:30 while we pick a family movie. My kids are really into “Jurassic Park.” Once the remote is in their hands they have “Bluey,” an Australian cartoon about dogs, on repeat. By 5:30 we sit down to eat. Maybe it’s hamburgers, meatloaf or baked chicken.

ZEN OF BEES Sometimes I’ll sit on the roof for 10 to 20 minutes and watch the bees. It’s 100 percent relaxing. You can sit fairly close if you’re still and relaxed, and they will fly around you. It’s a cool feeling to be in the middle of a big cloud of bees.

WEB WORK I catch up on administrative tasks. I use a service called Later. It’s a social media tool that lets you upload images and captions and then automatically posts them at a specific time. I plan out three or four bee or honey posts. I run an online local honey directory for beekeepers, so if you want to find one in Cheyenne, Wyo., you can. I’ll work on that and I’ll reach out to my web developer.

TV FOR TWO By 9, my wife and I are on the couch watching a movie. We started watching “Schitt’s Creek” after all that blow up at the Emmys, or something trending on Netflix, like “The Social Dilemma.” We’ve fallen into the routine of getting news on our phones, so we’re on them, too. My wife falls asleep first, then it comes over me. Bees are exhausting. I’ll get up, and if she hears me we both go upstairs to bed at 10.





No.44 article:
Spirits of Grandfathers Past

My wife and I thought we were two strangers meeting on social media. Turns out, we shared some history.

Grouse Creek, Utah, is about as off the beaten path as a town can be. To access this sleepy community, you have to cross miles of dirt and gravel roads over hilly terrain. A tiny two-pump gas station is the town’s only commercial building, along with a Bureau of Land Management bunkhouse, a shed-like post office, a small schoolhouse and a church.

In 2020 everything in Grouse Creek still feels like it belongs in another time. Perhaps the only thing that’s really changed over the last century is that the town has increased in population. When the town was established in 1876, there were just 20 men and a few of their wives and children. Today the population stands at nearly 80.

What makes this town personal to my wife, McCall Austin, is that her great-great-grandfather Valison Tanner and his brother were among the first to settle in the community after taking cooperator herds to graze in the pristine meadows there. Her ancestors remained in town for generations and her father was born there, too. Her Aunt Norma Jean still lives there today.

But what makes the town personal to us as a couple — and what makes this story worth telling — is something my wife discovered last summer. Along with many others, my wife has become driven to reconnect with her past and is an avid researcher of our family’s history and genealogy. Somewhere along that journey she stumbled upon the personal journals of my great-great-grandfather, James Chandler.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

Remarkably, it was within those pages that she first learned that James once lived in the tiny town of Grouse Creek, too.

In 1888, James was a struggling schoolteacher looking for work. His search led him to the 12-year-old community of Grouse Creek where he offered to teach the 14 children then living there. His journals say he didn’t know anyone in the town before he arrived, but he notes that one of the first people who offered his table and his home to the weary traveler was my wife’s great-great-grandfather. The two men became fast friends — talking often, taking their families to swim in the creek together. Valison’s family once cared for James’s wife when she fell ill. The two men remained close until James accepted a teaching position in Bountiful, Utah, about 224 miles away.

Out of reverence for our newfound shared history, my wife and I made the trek out to visit the town of Grouse Creek in August. As we walked through the tiny community, we thought of our ancestors meeting there for the first time more than 130 years ago.

We thought of the old, abandoned schoolhouse there and we ventured out to see if it was still standing. It was. An old wood and stone building with heavy beams sagging within, the surrounding ground overrun by weeds and wild grasses. The building was abandoned when a new school was built farther up the road.

My wife and I stepped into the one-room building and could almost hear the school children laughing and could almost picture great-great-grandpa James teaching at the head of the class.

In that moment, heaven didn’t feel like a very far-off place.

I wondered what James would have thought about his great-great-grandson sitting on a computer back in the summer of 2007 in Costa Mesa, Calif., messaging a woman he had just met on Myspace. And, whether he knew that awkward grandson would later marry that beautiful woman and they would have four beautiful children together?

And did he know that very woman would be the direct descendant of his good friend Valison? It was in that moment that I first began to wonder if somewhere beyond this mortal existence Valison and James could have had a hand in my wife and I meeting.

Of course it may all be a coincidence. But since that day I haven’t been able to shake the thought that my wife and I just may be a match made in heaven.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.45 article:
They Scream! We Scream!

What’s more fundamental to scary movies than the bone-chilling shriek? But delivering a terrifying wail isn’t easy. It’s an entire art with a history and a world of its own.

Ashley Peldon gets paid to scream.

While this may be a vocation that many people would jump at right now — why shriek into the void when you can pad your wallet doing it? — screaming for a living is a rarefied art.

The image of vocal terror is among our most universal and elemental, from Edvard Munch to Janet Leigh. But translating that into sound on film involves more than a microphone on set. Bloodcurdling from an A-lister is uncommon: Often, the screams we hear in movies and TV are created by doubles and voice actors, in Burbank studios, with specialists standing by to ghoul them up. It’s physically taxing and emotionally draining. And bizarro as a job.

“Usually, I’ll just type in ‘death scream,’” Trevor Gates, a sound designer, said of his effects database. One stock scream is so well-used it’s got a name, the Wilhelm, and has graduated into a soundtrack Easter egg.

Gates, who worked on Jordan Peele’s “Us” and “Get Out,” along with series like “The Haunting of Bly Manor,” brings performers into his sound booth to deliver the exact shrillness or suffocation the director envisions.

“There’s a psychology of the sound,” Gates said. “The bottom line is the performance of what you’re doing — it’s the visceralness, it’s the reality of hearing someone who could potentially be in pain. It’s a scary thing, and it’s a hard thing to recreate.”

Eli Roth, the filmmaker behind the “Hostel” series, asks auditioning actors if they can scream — “but I never make them do it.”

“Often people ask me, how do I direct the scream?’ he said. “Well, the truth is, you can’t. You just have to trust they have it in them.”

Peldon, a Los Angeles voice artist and former child actress, has been brought to tears, and giggles — she screamed at the pig in Bong Joon Ho’s “Okja” and once played a possessed baby goat. She specializes in “rage screaming,” she said (yes, dream job!) but risks damaging her vocal cords at work. On a typical day in her home studio, she might record “a smorgasbord of screams,” she said, along with the grunting, panting and heavy breath work that makes viewers feel scared, and empathetic.

“The best screams are like little doorways that just suck you into the movie, and trap you,” said Graham Reznick, a sound designer with a history in horror.

Performance and recording represent just two parts in the audible fright machinery. Here, an anatomy of cinematic screams and wails, and why they stay with us. Plus, is yelling better than therapy?

No one is quite sure when the first scream was recorded for the movies, but it didn’t take long. Screaming is one of the “melodramatic gestures that are part of film language from the very beginning,” said Adam Lowenstein, a film professor who directs the Horror Studies Working Group at the University of Pittsburgh.

Howard Hughes first used audible screams in 1930, for a plane going down in “Hell’s Angels.” A Variety critic described the pilot’s fairly mild cries as “overly gruesome” and “too tough” to hear, according to Robert Spadoni, a film scholar and professor at Case Western Reserve University.

But fast forward just a bit, and screaming found its first iconic moment: Fay Wray, reacting to King Kong, in 1933.

What’s striking about Wray, considered the original scream queen, is that the first time she unleashes her pipes, she’s clearly faking: It’s for a screen test within the movie, and the director is advising her to shriek as if she’s seen — foreshadowing alert — a most terrifying beast. “It’s packaged for us, very self-consciously, as a performance, not as an experience,” Professor Lowenstein said. Screaming was already a trigger for audience emotion. 

Spadoni, the author of “Uncanny Bodies: The Coming of Sound Film and the Origins of the Horror Genre,” argues that “sounds, as physical emanations of bodies, instantly made films more potentially sexy and carnal,” and, he added, “also more horrifying.” And nearly everyone in sound agrees that the most chilling cries come from women and children.

Men’s screams, on the other hand, can invite ridicule. Take the Wilhelm, an unlikely and not very convincing stock scream that started, legend has it, as a sound effect for a man being bitten by an alligator (even less believable as that), which was then repeatedly reused in westerns. You’ve now unwittingly heard it in “Star Wars,” “Indiana Jones” and a host of Pixar flicks, among hundreds of others. For years, sound designers have made a joke of sticking the Wilhelm into projects. (The name comes from a character in a 1953 western.)

The filmmaker and actor Eli Roth learned about it when he was making “Inglourious Basterds” with Quentin Tarantino. “I was doing the sound design on the short film-within-the-film, ‘Nation’s Pride,’ that Quentin tasked me with shooting,” he wrote in an email. “Quentin, of course knew well who Wilhelm was” and wanted to make sure the sound effect got a cameo, which came during a 90-foot fall.

The scream itself is “nothing special,” Roth added. “It’s an inside joke for industry insiders. But once you hear it, you can’t unhear it.”

Inevitably, there have been movies in which screams themselves are objects of menace, like “The Shout,” a 1978 British horror film, about a terrorizing (male) scream that kills everyone and everything who hears it.

But the most famous — and certainly the most beloved among sound professionals — scream-as-terror-device film is “Blow Out,” the 1981 Brian De Palma thriller about a sound engineer (John Travolta) searching for the perfect scream and stumbling into a murder plot.

Nancy Allen starred as an escort who is stalked by a contract killer and whose screams (spoilers ahead) as she’s being attacked provide the elusive sound that haunts Travolta’s character.

De Palma rejected the original screams. “He said they’re not interesting, not bad enough,” recalled Allen, who was married to him at the time. “And I said, let me do them, I can make them really bad. I think I did strain my throat a little bit. It’s real.”

“You have to totally surrender to the moment of the scene that you’re in,” she added, especially since you can’t really rehearse a scream, in order to preserve the voice.

Her character’s final cries were a plea, she said: “Please hear me, can anyone hear me, can anyone see me?’”

Allen did the vocals a few times, she said, drawing on what she called her “scaredy-cat” tendencies. “It was a moment to really unleash every terror I ever had, and think: this is it, it’s do-or-die.”

Afterward, there was a sense of fragility. “Of course you’re going to feel very vulnerable at that point, and unsafe,” she said. “You’ve let yourself go there, to your worst nightmare. I think that kind of scream, there really wasn’t another way to go with it, as far as I’m concerned. You’re screaming for your life.”

How do you know when a scream is right? Sound professionals don’t just depend on goose bumps — though they still get them, even as they dispassionately discuss murder methods.

“A mother seeing her child getting run over by a car, that’s going to be an incredibly different scream than someone being stabbed by a knife punch into a closet,” Reznick, the sound designer and filmmaker, said evenly. Some moments call for apparent authenticity, the purest expression of human agony. And some involve pitch-shifting an elephant’s bellow and pretending it came from a person’s mouth (or a ghost’s).

For many reasons, sounds this extreme are rarely collected on set, where a good scream can blow out an expensive mic, and an even more expensive star’s voice. Similarly, no one is going to chance calling Ryan Reynolds or Scarlett Johansson into a booth in Burbank to shout themselves hoarse for 10 minutes.

Instead, a cadre of professionals  are available to provide those vocals, which sound engineers and designers then tweak creatively.

“A lot of times screams are Frankensteined from four or five different people, just to make it work for the six seconds you need onscreen,” Reznick said. “I once replaced John Travolta’s death gurgles with my own voice.” (Just for a second, he was quick to add: “It’s a blend.”)

Sound designers like Gates have a stable of vocal performers to “loop” audio, the term for taping sounds or lines, and even creating background dialogue. That din of a restaurant when havoc strikes? Loopers.

They’re guided by a “loop group” leader, like a casting director for macabre whispers and guttural squeals. Audition tapes pour in; it’s not unusual for a loop group leader like Susan Boyajian to listen to 15 screams a day, she said. “There’s gradual screams, a buildup scream, kind of hyperventilating — say someone’s chasing you with a knife, and then you go into a scream,” she said brightly. “Is someone choking, the blood going into your throat?”

She chooses a handful for the sound crew and director to sift through, and then recording sessions begin, syncing to the performer onscreen. “You’re watching their mouth, you have to physically be that person and then give me what she or he is doing,” said Boyajian, a vocal teacher and actor.

Translating the director’s vision,  Gates may start by perusing an effects database with entries like “shrill death scream” and “emotional carnage.”

They’re not always human. “If I want something to sound like it’s organic, then I have to start with a source that’s organic,” Gates said. “Maybe it’s a screaming pig or a horse that’s angry. A lot of times we do this when it’s somebody, like, supernatural, a monster.”

That was the case when the sound of a bellowing elephant was used to vocalize for a ghost bride in “The Innkeepers,” a 2012 indie from Ti West.

Why an elephant? “It’s a really upsetting sound when you lower it,” said Reznick, the film’s sound supervisor.

He needed something slow, which nixed the actress’s own vocal. (“You can’t scream in slow motion.”) Initially, he’d considered a yowl that faded in like a kettle’s whistle, but decided it was unoriginal and not sinister enough. The final noise, he said, felt as eerie as sleep paralysis.

Sometimes sound crews do luck out with cast members. In “Us,” the twins played by the teenagers Cali and Noelle Sheldon tried doing their own wails. “One twin was really good at screams, and the other was not,” Gates said. But one was enough.

“It was such a good capture of emotion, we actually had to think about taming it down when we mixed the film,” Gates said. “There was too much hurt.” The version in the movie was just adjusted for pitch, with “a subtle layer added of animal vocalizations.”

For actors, stepping into the sound booth can be high stakes. If it’s a big scene, the director may be watching. There’s also a risk if the performer doesn’t have physical training. “I blew out my voice on ‘Basterds’” after a particularly violent scene, Roth said. “It hurts. It really hurts.”

And there is only so much that can be done to coax a scream. “Usually I’ll just ask them, ‘Do you want this to be your last take?’” said Roth, the writer-director of the first “Hostel” movies. “If they trust that they can fully go for broke and know that they don’t have to do it again, they give you the scream you want.” He tries to give his cast a day of vocal rest afterward. “On ‘Hostel’ and ‘Hostel Part II’ the crew members told me they had nightmares after hearing the actors scream,” he recalled. “That’s how I know the scene’s going to work with audiences.”

Veteran horror stars like Lin Shaye have developed their own philosophy of screaming. “It’s kind of like an orgasm,” said Shaye, a Stella Adler- and Lee Strasberg-trained actress with memorable turns in “Asylum” and the “Insidious” franchise. “It’s all the foreplay that leads you up to the moment, and then the scream is kind of the crescendo of that.”

Besides learning how to deliver from her diaphragm, not her vocal cords, she leaves much to the instant. “Sometimes I don’t even know I’m going to scream,” she said. “The scream is an expression of pent-up anger, fear, whatever. You can mimic a scream, but it won’t be as unique or probably as penetrating as if you investigate your own emotion that would lead you to that place.”

“Learning to not scream is also really important,” she added. “An interesting thought for an actor is to try to hold a scream back as long as you can, until you can’t. And then you have to scream.”

Screamers, some in the field argue, are born, not made.

While anyone can learn techniques to prevent injury, sustaining a 10- or 15-second full-out scream — as Peldon can — may just be a natural talent. “These people are basically vocal athletes,” said Dr. Jennifer Long, an otolaryngologist at University of California, Los Angeles, who works with voice performers.

Peldon has been known as a powerhouse since she starred as the titular “Child of Rage” in a 1992 TV movie. She auditioned with a scream. “It was really enjoyable for me, but everybody else was like — oh my God, horrified,” Peldon recalled. 

Now she makes her living whimpering and wailing, with a reputation as one of the loudest in the business. She’s also known for her “efforts,” the industry term for the sounds a character makes as they’re running, fighting or in distress. (A-listers almost never do those. Sometimes even their breathing is dubbed.) Replacement sound makes those sequences easier to edit.

Like many loopers, she does a lot of voice-matching, including for household-name stars; for contractual reasons, she’s coy about who. But she did blow her voice recently when a few of them were in a TV episode together. For protection, her doctor advised her not to speak over 65 decibels when she’s off-duty. (Peldon: “I have two kids. That’s not happening.”)

Her technique for a bloodcurdling scream involves tightening her abs and then forcibly expelling air as she’s vocalizing. “My hand is in a claw poking in my stomach, I might even give a light push to my stomach to push air out,” she said. For animals and monsters, she reverses the process, vocalizing on the inhale — way weirder.

Once, she was doing a rat that got stepped on — eeeeeeee! Very high pitched. “I almost passed out,” she said. “I don’t get dizzy often — that one I was sitting on the floor after, and sweating.”

The physicality takes a toll. “Through the years of just screaming in video games, my voice has dropped and dropped,” said Scott Whyte, a voice artist and looper who once routinely played teenagers. He’s still versatile: in an hourlong conversation, he slipped into Homer Simpson, Morgan Freeman, Pee-Wee Herman, Christopher Walken, a Beatle, Hugh Grant, and young and old Harrison Ford.

Video games are among the most strenuous work, said Whyte, who’s also been the voice of Crash Bandicoot. There might be 300 effort-heavy script cues in a session — “different spellings of ‘Eeargh!’ and ‘Aaaaiieeee!’” said Reznick, a video game writer as well as sound designer. Throat damage was one of the main issues raised by video game performers when they went on strike in 2016. (The actors’ union reached a deal with video game companies nearly a year later.) 

Whyte, who also started as a young actor (“D2: The Mighty Ducks”), grunted and winced for Tom Hardy in “Venom.” He’s more playful than Method — “there’s no acting training that’s going to help you when you’re going to be a zombie ripping someone’s head off,” he said. “It’s like, yeah let’s have some fun and see how weird the noises can get.”

Still, there’s an intensity to the job — emotionally, too. Peldon, who has a doctorate in psychology, recalled having to react as a woman who has set herself on fire as a martyr; the director wanted her to express pain and exaltation. “That was definitely a unique combo — how do you joyfully scream burning to death?” she said. She sometimes has dreams where she’s screaming a lot, “and those are scary.”

But more often, getting into the booth and screaming your head off is indeed therapeutic, voice actors said. As a group, they seem notably chipper, and maybe this is why. “You leave it all on the page,” Peldon said. There’s an adrenaline rush and then an unparalleled release (and a paycheck).

“Everyone walks out of sessions like that completely wiped,” Whyte said. “It feels so good.”

Old screams are not so scary — that damsel-in-distress stuff doesn’t play now.

Instead, said Peldon, she does more empowered roars — “there’s a feminist awakening of those screams, we’re seeing a lot more in our superheroes.”

Witness scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis in the first “Halloween,” in 1978, and the most recent, in 2018: Her early ear-piercer has evolved into a battle cry.

Designers and filmmakers, though, still love that analog ’70s-’80s sound, and sometimes cultivate it now. The recordings of that era “blow out in a way that feels like the blood rushing to your ears and your brain shrinking into your head,” said Reznick. “When you hear a very clean present scream, it doesn’t sound true.”

That’s because, in large part, our very understanding of what heart-rending fear sounds like comes from Hollywood. “A scream is such an atypical reaction to what we experience in everyday life,” it immediately amps up the drama in film, said Jason Blum, the producer behind the horror juggernaut Blumhouse. It’s there because, in a primal way, nothing telegraphs terror better.

In real life, most of us have not found a dead body next to us in bed, or been attacked by zombies or aliens (yet). If we did, what would we sound like? Research shows that when confronted with trauma, many people are actually frozen into silence.

In actuality, the most horrifying scream is one with no sound at all.





No.46 article:
Corrections: Nov. 1, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Sunday, Nov. 1, 2020.

An interview on Sept. 27 about Ilhan Omar, the Democratic congresswoman from Minnesota, referred incorrectly to her family’s arrival in the United States in 1995. They came to the United States as refugees. They were not granted asylum status.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.47 article:
Don’t Give In to ‘Election Stress Disorder’

Voting day won’t bring an end to the strain of this political season, but you don’t have to let things get contentious. 

From the droves of people voting by mail to the widespread protests for racial justice to the pandemic and worries about the electoral process itself, the 2020 election cycle provides “a recipe for a lot of angst” on Election Day, according to Alvin Bernard Tillery Jr., a professor of political science at Northwestern University.

“We’re seeing a huge increase in the need for mental health services,” said Eva Escobedo, a therapist specializing in relationship issues at Just Mind, a counseling center in Austin, Texas. With the pandemic keeping many families apart, the usual rallying points — like shared love of a sports team — have frayed. “One of the very few things that remains, and not only remains but is heightened, is our political standing,” Ms. Escobedo said. “I think that people are way more polarized even within their families and essential groups than they ever have been before.”

So how can you engage with friends and family members across the political divide on Election Day and afterward without succumbing to fights and finger-pointing? It starts with addressing your own big feelings. 

Uncertainty produces anxiety, but you can counter that, in part, by understanding what to expect on Election Day this year. In the past, many people have shared the ritual of watching the returns and staying up until the election has been called. This year, Dr. Tillery observed, there’s a significant chance the presidential election will not be called on Tuesday night. Just eight states have said they anticipate reporting 98 percent of the unofficial results by noon on Wednesday, so many votes may not have been counted yet.

Remember, this is not necessarily a cause for concern in itself: Tallying provisional ballots and ballots received by mail takes more time, and states like Pennsylvania and parts of Michigan don’t allow absentee ballots to be processed until Election Day. In some places, election officials may also need to reach out to voters to verify their ballots. All of this helps ensure that an individual’s vote is counted.

“Voters should get some comfort from knowing that we do have counting procedures and auditing procedures and voter notification procedures that would make it better for us to be calm and let those processes play out,” said Myrna Pérez, the director of the Voting Rights and Election Program at the Brennan Center for Justice, a nonprofit public policy institute affiliated with New York University.

It’s possible, in the month between Election Day and the Electoral College’s Dec. 8 deadline to settle disputes over the results, that candidates will try to claim  victory prematurely or manipulate the results. Be on the lookout for viral disinformation: Check the provenance of news articles or memes making polarizing political claims or calling the election before a mainstream news outlet has done so.

According to a poll released by the American Psychological Association in October, 68 percent of adults report finding the election to be a significant source of stress. This is due, at least in part, to the vitriol and name-calling exhibited by candidates, according to Steven Stosny, a couples counselor based in Gaithersburg, Md., who came up with the term “election stress disorder” during the 2016 election cycle. “That kind of negative emotion being displayed by public figures gets very contagious,” he said.

Election Day isn’t going to bring an end to the anxiety — especially if the race hasn’t been called for a candidate. So before you bring up politics with family members, take a moment to assess where your head’s at. That way, you’ll be better equipped to handle potentially challenging, contentious conversations. You may need “to stew,” Ms. Escobedo said. “Give yourself a break.” She recommended taking a period of time — perhaps a day or two — to allow yourself to be a little off-kilter.

Limit your ambient exposure to social media, where attacks on a candidate or policy can feel like attacks on you, personally. Dr. Stosny suggests setting aside specific periods to check the news or your social media feeds. If you do engage with relatives or friends on Facebook or Twitter, try to take those conversations offline, where you might have a more successful and meaningful exchange. 

Nevertheless, Dr. Jena Lee, a psychiatrist at the University of California, Los Angeles, cautioned against assuming you’ll be an anxious mess on Election Day. “Humans are quite resilient,” she said. “There’s a strong possibility that you will be able to cope.”

It will remain important to discuss political issues and what’s at stake with those closest to you, even if you tend to disagree. Those conversations don’t have to get heated, even if you’re confronted with a gloating or irritable relative. “If someone is angry at you, you want to see that they’re really feeling hurt and devalued,” Dr. Stosny said.

If a family member approaches you with anger, try to respond with compassion. Consider setting a time limit on your political discussions, Dr. Lee said, agreeing in advance to a fun, shared activity when your time is up.

That might sound easier said than done. But several experts agreed that instead of debating specific policies, you’d be better served grounding your conversations in values like equality, justice and fairness, as well as being candid about what you’re feeling and why. 

“The most important work that we can do as citizens in that gap between the votes being cast and counted is zoom out,” said Beth Silvers, who co-hosts the podcast “Pantsuit Politics” and co-wrote the book “I Think You’re Wrong (But I’m Listening)” with Sarah Stewart Holland. “Do we want every vote to be counted? Do we want to have confidence in the results, even if it’s a result we don’t like? What kind of commitments do we owe each other in this period?”

Political and social divides among your family members and peers are not going to be resolved by this election alone, even once the results are tallied and certified. But persistent, thoughtful communication can help bridge differences. “Chip, chip, chip, chip, chip away over conversations based in fact,” Dr. Tillery said, “and asking them what they think is morally right.”

If you’re feeling anxious or overwhelmed, or need to take time out of a challenging conversation, go for a walk or run, and try to spend at least 30 minutes outside. Studies have linked aerobic exercise to improved emotional regulation and the growth of new neurons; even moderate exercise like walking can yield benefits.

Other analog activities can help you cope, too. “Anxious thoughts race by,” Dr. Stosny said, “and the faster they go, the less realistic they get.” Instead of dwelling on them, write them out longhand; this will slow down and moderate their frenetic pace. Next to each source of fear, write down how you’ll respond to it. Hug family members within your bubble — hugs promote the release of oxytocin, a hormone that helps regulate stress — and make plans with friends to occupy your mind.

You may feel especially powerless in the period between casting your vote and when the election is called or if your preferred candidate does not win. Still, you can mitigate that feeling through other productive political actions.

“One of the things Covid has made abundantly clear in so many aspects of our life is that we have a lot of cracks in the system,” Ms. Pérez said. “Our elections have felt the strain.”  Contact your representatives before the new legislative session begins, she suggested, lobbying them to improve funding for the elections, expand voter registration efforts and safeguard voting and auditing processes.

Reach out to your local school district to find out how you can help students in need, attend a protest or disseminate reliable sources of information about the electoral process within your social circle. If you can do any of this with a friend or family member, even better.

“This is the first step in a long journey of really reimagining what America is going to look like and what America is going to be about,” Ms. Holland said. “That’s not going to end when the voting does.”





No.48 article:
Learn the Etiquette of Virtual Weddings

The answers to all your 2020 pandemic wedding dilemmas.

With weddings this year being delayed, downsized or split into two — video ceremony now, party next year — many guests have some only-in-2020 etiquette questions. Should you dress up? Send a present — or two? Read on for answers to all your pandemic wedding quandaries.

Laura Held, founder of Ida Rose Events in Arlington, Va., said couples are now hiring videographers to livestream the events instead of just having a laptop open to Zoom. “They are saying, ‘if I’m going to broadcast it, I want it done well,’” she said.

This means guests might receive a link where they can watch, but — unlike in Zoom — the couple can only see how many people are online, not who they are (or what they’re wearing). If you want to be a great guest, you could get dressed up, take a selfie and post it to social media, saying that you’re getting ready for the wedding.

“It’s flattering for the bride and groom — it shows you’re excited to be a part of their special day,” Ms. Held said. (You can post screen shots of the ceremony to something fleeting, like Instagram Stories, she said, but it’s best to avoid doing so on your main feed until the couple has had a chance to share.)

If you’re attending a wedding on any platform where you’re in front of a camera, dress in a way that you’re happy to be photographed. Hasti Maloufi, a wedding planner in Vancouver, British Columbia, now incorporates into the wedding rehearsal how the couple will acknowledge grandparents who couldn’t travel or guests in other time zones. (Ms. Maloufi now sends the wedding party down the aisle more slowly, “so the camera has time to pan in and pan out, and get the next person walking.”) You can just turn off your camera, but beware that everyone will assume it’s because you’re not dressed.

It may not be enough to just wear a nice shirt. Virtual weddings may feature group dances and karaoke so you may also want to wear pants or a skirt, unless you’re deliberately going for laughs.

Caroline Creidenberg, founder of Wedfuly, a Denver-based online wedding planning company, said she has seen guests ham it up during their toasts by wearing — in one case — traditional Filipino formal wear on top and what looked like sweatpants printed with a giant wolf on the bottom. Others have paired sport coats with bathing suits. Ms. Creidenberg, whose company has put on some 500 weddings since the pandemic started, pointed out that if a couple has specifically chosen a videoconferencing option they want online guests to be involved. Whatever you wear, “these couples have been through the wringer, so the best thing you can do is be attentive,” she said.

Bethel Nathan, an officiant in San Diego who has performed about 40 weddings during the pandemic, said most couples seem to be muting everyone during the ceremony. If the couple doesn’t mute you first, it’s wise to mute yourself to prevent interruptions from people or pets at home.

Ms. Nathan has been in business for 12 years, but in recent months she’s had to adapt her ceremony to give a warning that she is about to pronounce the couple as married. “You have to kind of turn to the camera and say, ‘Are you all ready?’ and then someone has to unmute everyone if the couple wants to hear the cheers,” she said.

If you’re attending a wedding in person, you may be asked to quarantine and to take a coronavirus test. Greg Moss, 36, and Danielle Black, 36, who married on the Brooklyn Grange rooftop farm on Sept. 26, asked their 20 guests to self-isolate for two weeks before the wedding and submit proof of a negative coronavirus test by email.

“We understand this is a lot to ask,” the couple wrote on their wedding website, which also included a list of rapid testing sites. “We’re relying on you, our most special people, to honor us and each other with your honesty and strict caution.”

A couple of guests did not attend because they could not comply — “with good reason,” Mr. Moss said in an interview, “but everyone understood where we were coming from.”

One thing guests — both in person and virtual — can expect is shorter receptions. (Ceremonies often seem to be similar length as in the Before Times, with the main difference being that more couples are writing their own vows, according to several wedding planners interviewed.)

Leah Weinberg, a wedding planner who founded Color Pop Events in Queens, said a “normal” wedding would be about six hours from guest arrival to the end of the night. Currently, the events are about three hours, she said, because in-person parties of 20 or 30 people don’t need an hour for cocktails, and there isn’t usually much dancing. 

Virtual guests don’t necessarily want to watch the in-person ones eat dinner, so some receptions with a large virtual guest list may go directly from the couple being pronounced married to the first dance, any family dances (such as father daughter), toasts and cake-cutting. Then the virtual guests log off, and dinner is served (yes, after the cake), Ms. Creidenberg said.

Another feature of some virtual weddings: Breakout rooms, which the couple organizes, à la tables at a wedding. “Keep your breakout rooms to the first page of gallery view of Zoom,” Ms. Creidenberg said — in other words, to fewer than 25 people per room. If you’d prefer not to chat with your “table,” you can always turn off your camera and mute yourself until the couple arrives, said Brittany Ward, lead planner at Modern Rebel, a wedding planning company based in Brooklyn.

“You’re expected to stay until the couple shows up to say hello, but it’s a virtual event, so logging off is not uncommon if someone can’t stay and wait,” Ms. Ward said. One tip for guests: Switch to gallery view so you can see everyone in the room and not just the person speaking at the moment.

First, keep in mind that you are never obligated to give a gift, said Diane Gottsman, founder of the Protocol School of Texas, in San Antonio. If there’s a video wedding to which you’re invited, followed by a larger in-person celebration planned for next year, give the gift soon after the video wedding.

“That’s the wedding,” she said. “No one knows what’s going to happen next year. Plan only for what you’re invited to at that moment.” 

If you do go to the celebration next year, you can choose to give another gift or just bring along a bottle of wine, depending on your relationship with the couple and your finances.

If you were invited to an in-person wedding, then uninvited because of Covid-related downsizing, ask yourself how you would feel the next time you see the couple if you haven’t acknowledged the wedding in some way. “If you’re going to dread it, then there’s your answer,” Ms. Gottsman said. You don’t need to buy them a gift; you could just send a really beautiful card congratulating them, or maybe tuck in a funny old picture you found, she said. Anything that shows a little bit of effort.

Every expert interviewed had the same advice about being left out: Don’t take it personally. It wasn’t because you did something wrong. The best gift you can give the couple is to be compassionate and give them space.

You could also do one better. When Ram Johal, 28, and Margaret Hermano, 29, had to downsize their Vancouver wedding — even significant others of the wedding party didn’t make the cut — a group of about 20 of their friends had an idea. The group asked the wedding planner, Ms. Maloufi, if they could watch the ceremony on their phones (with Zoom) from the church parking lot, then surprise the couple with in-person, socially distanced congratulations. Ms. Maloufi brought a portable speaker so the couple could dance their first dance, to “You Are the Reason,” by Leona Lewis and Calum Scott, as their friends cheered. 

But note to anyone thinking of wedding crashing: Venues have strict rules about numbers, so run your scheme by the planner. “Someone should be in the loop to ensure it’s seamless and memorable — for the right reasons,” Ms. Maloufi said.





No.49 article:
The Capital of Sprawl Gets a Radically Car-Free Neighborhood

On an empty lot near Phoenix, perhaps the most auto-addicted city in America, a start-up is betting $170 million on a more walkable future.

Phoenix, that featureless and ever-spreading tundra of concrete, has been called “the world’s least sustainable city.” It has been characterized as a “sprawling, suburbanite wasteland” and “a monument to man’s arrogance.” The Onion has darkly predicted that by 2050, “most of Earth’s landmass” will be swallowed by the encroaching Phoenix exurbs. The Walk Score index ranks the place as the second-worst big city in America for pedestrians, and traversing it has been described as “a slog through a desert, plus the occasional McDonald’s.”

The Phoenix metropolitan area is, in other words, the last place you would expect a real estate developer to spend $170 million creating what it calls the first-ever car-free neighborhood built from scratch in the United States.

The development, Culdesac Tempe, is a 17-acre lot just across the Salt River from Phoenix. Currently a mess of dust and heavy equipment, the site will eventually feature 761 apartments, 16,000 square feet of retail, 1,000 residents — and exactly zero places for them to park. The people who live there will be contractually forbidden to park a car on site or on nearby streets, part of a deal the development company struck with the government to assuage fears of clogged parking in surrounding neighborhoods.

Culdesac Tempe is a proving ground for a start-up also called Culdesac, which was founded in San Francisco and moved to Tempe during the pandemic. Started in 2018 by two native Arizonans, the company announced the project last year to a mixture of curiosity and doubt. Urbanists cheered it as a bold and important step toward a future with fewer cars, while suburban developers said the concept could never work on a large scale.

Others preferred to simply ignore Culdesac. “If something is described as ‘car-free,’” Car &amp; Driver wrote, “we’re generally not interested in reading any further.”

Although Culdesac was devised before the coronavirus emerged and has experienced some construction delays, the project could end up benefiting from the pandemic, as more Americans consider working from home indefinitely in cheaper cities. Culdesac says it expects the first residents will be able to move into their apartments next year, with the larger site completed by 2023 — a pedestrian oasis in the megalopolis known as the Arizona Sun Belt.

To be fair, Tempe, the home of Arizona State University, gets high marks for bike friendliness and has seen a recent boom in high-rise construction. But outside the campus area, it is very much a part of the region’s autoscape. Culdesac’s immediate neighbors include an R.V. park, a mechanic, a transmission shop and an auto-parts store, and nearby apartment complexes — the competition — are surrounded by parking lots that shimmer in the three-digit heat.

The car-addicted reality of the area makes Culdesac’s architectural renderings both intriguing and a little hard to believe. According to the images, neighbors will lounge in communal courtyards and walk to do their errands. Culdesac Tempe is directly on a light-rail line to downtown Phoenix, but residents may never need to leave: The complex will feature its own grocery store, coffee shop, restaurant, co-working space and other amenities.

The 167 rowhouse-size apartment buildings will be broken up by wide pedestrian malls, and there will be a half-acre park where residents can walk their dogs and stage picnics. A limited amount of parking will be provided for outsiders who want to visit friends or shop at the stores, but the people who live there will have to rely on public transit, bikes, ride-hailing apps, scooters and the like to get around greater Phoenix. Apartments start at about $1,000 a month for a studio and $2,200 for a three-bedroom, about in line with the area.

Because Culdesac’s founders come from the technology industry, where no idea is valid if it does not scale, the company’s plans go way beyond Arizona. Ryan Johnson, a founder and Culdesac’s chief executive — he’s also the Tempe site’s first official renter — said the multidecade goal was to retrofit American cities and end car ownership as we know it.

“After this one, we’re going to build something for 10,000 residents,” Mr. Johnson said in an interview. After that: entire municipalities. “The vision of Culdesac,” he added, “is to build the first car-free city in the U.S.”

Mr. Johnson’s thesis, as laid out over a few hours of recent Zoom calls, is that (a) the future of American cities is the walkable urbanism found in New York and San Francisco but that (b) that future is headed to the Sun Belt.

The coasts may dominate American culture now, but for decades the biggest growth rates have been in sprawl-heavy places like Atlanta, Houston and Phoenix. The latter remains among the nation’s fastest-growing metropolitan areas, adding about 750,000 people since 2010. With a total population just under five million, Phoenix has edged out Boston as the country’s 10th-most-populous urban area.

Compare that with New York and Chicago, which are losing population, and with California, which continues to see a net outflow of middle-class residents to cheaper cities beyond its borders. If you want to be in the business of creating not just new buildings but entire neighborhoods, you go where demand is exploding, and that’s Arizona.

Megan Woodrich might become one of these coast-to-Sun-Belt transplants. “It’s absolutely untenable here long term,” said Ms. Woodrich, a teacher who lives in South San Francisco — a suburb of 63,000 that sits below its more famous neighbor — with her husband and three children. They are considering a move to a cheaper place like Arizona, but they want a walkable neighborhood — a combination of desires that led them to discover Culdesac. Ms. Woodrich is on a list of 200 people that have expressed early interest in the development.

Some economists and demographers have derided Phoenix’s growth as cheap. They note that many of the jobs being created are low-paid positions in sales and customer service, the result of the local government’s encouraging corporations in higher-tax states to move their back-office operations.

But in the recovery since the subprime-housing bust, which leveled the local economy and its construction-dependent job growth, Phoenix has developed a budding tech scene and started to attract jobs from Silicon Valley. Zoom, the videoconferencing app that has gone from little known to ubiquitous during the pandemic, recently announced that it was opening a research and development office — full of the higher-paid software engineers that tech companies usually place in the Bay Area, Seattle and New York — in the Phoenix area.

At the Culdesac site, the developers are blending two ideas that usually have nothing to do with each other. The project is both an “infill” development that aims to sleeve itself into the urban landscape, and a master-planned community that recalls a Disney exhibition or a golf-and-condos parcel in Florida.

The goal might be termed instant gentrification: to open up with all the amenities that make a place desirable, and hope that they make the neighborhood a destination overnight. The development’s park, shops and co-working spaces will all be open to the public, and every penny spent on site, whether from a tenant’s rent check or an outsider’s bar tab, will filter up to the same company.

When Culdesac Tempe was announced, the idea of a large, car-free development in Arizona seemed like the extreme but plausible edge of a long-term trend. Americans are getting serious about reducing their carbon footprint, and for years, cities across the country have been rewriting their zoning codes and building regulations to require fewer parking spots and encourage greater density.

Outside urban cores, there has been a parallel trend toward more duplexes, apartments in shopping malls and “car-lite” developments — building projects that acknowledge most residents must drive to work five mornings a week but may prefer to walk or use transit for errands and leisure. Even in Phoenix, the few relatively walkable neighborhoods command premium prices.

Still, there was probably going to be a ceiling on the number of tenants Culdesac could attract. The great bulk of the city’s working population has jobs requiring a car commute. Culdesac might have made a profit courting the subset that shunned automobiles and worked from home, but there’s no disputing it would have been a subset.

Then, of course, came the pandemic, causing tens of millions of Americans to begin telecommuting from their living rooms. Across the country, employers are re-evaluating whether they will ever reopen their downtown offices at full capacity, and some have told their staffs that they can accomplish their tasks via videoconference forever. Suddenly, the Culdesac pitch — a Sun Belt development that caters to people who work remotely and middle-class refugees from the expensive and crowded coasts — started looking eerily prescient.

Builders and urban planners have long denounced city-mandated parking minimums — requiring projects to include one or two spots per unit — as “apartment blockers” that raise the rent. Instead of telling developers how many parking spots to build, they argue, cities should allow parking to be built according to demand. The hope is that once residents see how much a parking space is costing them (a few hundred dollars a month in big cities), they will be more apt to embrace car-sharing and public transit.

In 2018, Seattle passed a law requiring developers to unbundle the cost of parking from the cost of rent, and various other cities, including Los Angeles, Portland, Minneapolis, Austin and San Francisco, have approved buildings with minimal or no parking for residents. Just a year after Culdesac announced its Tempe development, a more modest project — a 104-apartment complex with just six units of parking — was proposed in Charlotte, N.C. The developer, Grubb Properties, assembled a spreadsheet of car-free buildings and developments for the City Council to consider. Culdesac topped the list, which mostly consisted of smaller, one-off projects.

The more common it becomes to sever parking from development, the easier the concept is to sell to tenants. “When other developers get on board, it helps change the mind-set of lenders and others who are stuck in the traditional car-centric mentality,” said Clay Grubb, Grubb’s chief executive. In mid-October, Charlotte’s Council approved the project with a 6-to-5 vote.

Arizona — for all the scorn heaped upon it by, ahem, car-despising coastal elites in professions like journalism — is actually a magnet for housing innovation. Like the rest of the West, the state boomed after World War II, attracting residents and industries as white Americans suburbanized and the baby boom commenced.

In the dominant Phoenix region, which accounts for about two-thirds of the state’s population, growth was steered by a cabal of civic boosters and Chamber of Commerce men, who courted out-of-state employers by hoovering up federal infrastructure dollars and fostering a good “business climate” — that is, they kept unions weak, taxes low and regulation minimal.

The mix of fast growth and low-key rules has given Phoenix a reputation for being “the petri dish for housing experiments.” It’s a great place to build because people are constantly showing up. And because so many houses look the same — terra-cotta roof, rock lawn by the driveway, and exteriors in your choice of tan, tan or tan — the region emerged from the housing bust with a reputation for being one of the easiest places in America to gauge the price of a home.

In the aftermath of the Great Recession, when investors built single-family-home empires from the wreckage of a mortgage crisis, the Phoenix region was one of the first markets where institutional buyers started amassing foreclosed properties. More recently, Phoenix also became a test market for an emerging class of “iBuying” (short for instant buying) companies, including Redfin, Zillow, Offerpad and Opendoor, which hope to upset the traditional broker model by offering home sellers quick cash offers, then flipping the properties back on the market.

Arizona is so encouraging of new real estate schemes that its Commerce Authority has a program, Property Technology Sandbox, in which companies can apply to test new ideas to buy, sell and develop without having to get the usual licenses. It’s a place that attracts builders because the local attitude seems to be “Eh, give it a try.”

Unlike so many other Arizonans, Mr. Johnson is actually from here. He grew up in Phoenix and was one of those kids who spent hours building rail networks and skyscrapers in SimCity. Being a good student and interested in software and public transit, Mr. Johnson expected that he would attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology or some other elite university in a dense, Eastern city.

Instead, he went to the University of Arizona with a full-ride scholarship plus $50,000. This came from the Flinn Foundation, whose Flinn Scholars program aims to keep smart locals from leaving the state.

Mr. Johnson used the $50,000 to invest in the Tucson rental market, then left for a succession of out-of-town jobs in consulting, finance and in public service, the latter at New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority. In San Francisco, he joined Opendoor, and in 2018 started Culdesac with Jeff Berens, his college roommate.

“What we saw at Opendoor,” Mr. Johnson said, “was there is enormous demand for walkable neighborhoods, and with all these innovations in transportation, ride sharing, scooters, et cetera, we realized that there was a way to build it. So we said, ‘Where can we build a new type of walkable neighborhood?’”

Doing this would require three things: raising money, finding land and getting a city to let them do it. The first two could be satisfied anywhere. The last required a place with a loose approach to housing regulation. However much Arizona is associated with sprawl, the Phoenix region is actually a builder of everything — towering condos, garden apartment complexes, golf course villas.

The company approached Tempe with its plans in 2018 and by late last year had a development agreement that allowed it to build the project without residential parking so long as the residents were prohibited from parking nearby. With that, Mr. Johnson went home. Soon the company followed him: In May, Culdesac canceled its office lease in San Francisco and instituted a remote work policy. A half-dozen of the company’s 20 employees have since moved to the Phoenix area.

Before Culdesac’s backhoe went in, the Tempe site was a neighborhood eyesore. The ground consisted of dirt and broken glass. On top of it stood abandoned buildings with stray wires and punched-out windows. Standing there in early February, I imagined it being the site of a dystopia-themed paintball war or a great place for teenagers to vape.

This is, of course, how developers make money: They see potential where others don’t, and profit through the timeless process of turning land that is worth little into land that is worth a lot. But I wondered how viable Culdesac’s expansion prospects were beyond the sure-why-not regulatory ethos of Arizona. Even if the Tempe project is a success, it’s unclear how many times Culdesac can assemble large, underutilized lots along existing transit lines and persuade cities to let them rezone with the eagerness that Tempe did.

I asked Mr. Berens to show me Culdesac’s potential development sites in other cities, and he agreed on the condition that I describe them only generally. Recently, over Zoom, he took me on a satellite tour of five metro areas: Denver, Washington, Dallas, Atlanta and Raleigh, N.C.

The common element was that the sites were miles from the central business district but still (with the exception of Raleigh) proximal to a rail line. Their neighbors were industrial yards and towing companies and car dealers. Imagine riding a subway from downtown, in the direction of the airport, and looking out the window as you reach a stop on the industrial edge of the city.

That’s the sort of spot Culdesac is seeking: Places that can be bought cheap, covered with hundreds or thousands of new homes, and made to feel that they are connected to the heart of the city because a new generation of tenants fundamentally embraces transit — or maybe doesn’t want to go into the heart of the city at all.

Doing this will require lots of money and lots of interests, pools of debt and equity that developers assemble into a “capital stack” that lays out who is paid for what and when. If Culdesac is successful, it will operate like a franchise or chain hotel that links several individual companies through one brand.

One of those companies, Culdesac Inc., has raised $17 million from venture-capital firms including Khosla Ventures, Zigg Capital and Initialized Capital. That company plans to serve as the developer and property manager for the series of limited liability companies that make up an individual project, which in turn will be funded by individual investors and bank debt. Culdesac Tempe, for instance, is being codeveloped with Sunbelt Holdings, a local developer, and Encore Capital Management, a real estate investment firm, which raised most of the equity for the $170 million project’s construction.

We are living in a moment of extreme disruption. (And that’s a sentence I’m typing before the outcome of the presidential election is known.) People are changing how they live, where they work, how they get there or if they get there at all. The process of getting back to normal is likely to be more disruptive still. Billions of people will create new habits, and no matter what happens, many of them will stick.

For whatever reason, changing addresses seems to open people to further change. In studies of military families, one of the few groups of people who are shifted around at random, researchers have found that marriage and children are often associated with long-distance moves.

“There is something about being told that you are going to be moving across the country that forces you to re-evaluate other big decisions in your life,” said Abigail Wozniak, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis who studies migration.

This “discontinuity hypothesis” seems to apply to environmental habits as well. A study in Copenhagen found that when drivers were nudged to take public transit, the nudge worked best with people who had recently changed addresses. Movers also seem more open to recycling more, conserving water and reducing electricity use. There seems to be a sweet spot, sometime within three months of a move, when people’s habits are upset and they open themselves to the possibilities of new ones.

To build anticipation for the opening in Tempe, Culdesac has been hosting semiregular video calls with prospective residents, who give input on the final design. Talking about bike-rack design or the rules of a future community garden, they come off as the urban-planning equivalent of the fanatics and early adopters who stand in long lines for “Star Wars” movies and Apple products.

Demographically, they mirror the two groups that have been credited with the past three decades of urban revitalization: young professionals like Ms. Woodrich, and empty nesters like Reynolds-Anthony Harris, a 67-year-old business consultant who lives in the Minneapolis area and is also considering a move to Phoenix.

“There are some of us who have no interest or desire whatsoever to be in a segregated senior citizens’ community,” he said. “That, to me, is the fastest way to the grave.”

Whatever the age, they also all seem interested in a kind of self-imposed shock and the discovery of something new.

Daniel Moreh, a software engineer in Oakland, Calif., isn’t even interested in Tempe itself. He’s heard nice things; he knows it has a university. The real appeal of Culdesac is the idea of being part of something new.

The start-up bug is something people take with them everywhere, so he uses phrases like “co-create the culture,” and he expects that the first few months of living there will be echo the feeling of traveling and making easy friends. “There’s not an established hierarchy of ‘Hey, I can’t talk to you yet,’” he said.

“It’s a bunch of people who are willing to pick up whatever they had in their life and move to try this thing,” he added. “I don’t know who they are yet, but that sounds like a group of people I would be interested in meeting.”





No.50 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy, From Joe Biden to a Rock Novel in Verse

HOW TO WALK ON WATER: And Other Stories, by Rachel Swearingen. (New American Press, paper, $14.95.) The stories in Swearingen’s disconcerting and promising debut explore themes of violence, chance and the consolations of imagination.

FORGOTTEN WORK, by Jason Guriel. (Biblioasis, paper, $14.95.) A futuristic dystopian rock novel in rhymed couplets, this rollicking book is as unlikely, audacious and ingenious as the premise suggests: “And then he plays some chords that sound both odd / and somehow right, as if unlocked by God.”

THE BOOK COLLECTORS: A Band of Syrian Rebels and the Stories That Carried Them Through a War, by Delphine Minoui. Translated by Lara Vergnaud. (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $25.) A French journalist describes how a group of young men compiled a secret library outside Damascus as a refuge from Syria’s civil war.

JOE BIDEN: The Life, the Run, and What Matters Now, by Evan Osnos. (Scribner, $23.) Based on Osnos’s reporting for The New Yorker, this biography covers the candidate’s career as a senator and vice president as well as his life on the campaign trail.

THE LUCKIEST MAN: Life With John McCain, by Mark Salter. (Simon &amp; Schuster, $35.) As a friend and adviser, the author was close to McCain; this book combines a conventional biography with the story of their bond.

Reading LEAVE THE WORLD BEHIND has convinced me of Rumaan Alam’s clairvoyance — he so perfectly captures the uneasy dread and horror of this pandemic. In his novel, flamingos cavort in a swimming pool and thousands of deer gather in a mass migration on Long Island, mirroring reports of mountain goats reclaiming city streets. An older Black man returns to his own home that a white family has been renting, holding up his hands “in a gesture that was either conciliatory or said Don’t shoot”; protesters masked up and marched because the latter is not a given, not for Breonna Taylor or Trayvon Martin or so many others. Two families, brought together by Airbnb and circumstance, bunker down at that home, scared, lacking information about something mysterious and terrible that has already sickened one of them. As we trudge through this year, I think of this line, imbued with fear, and maybe — am I foolish? — a little promise: “However much had happened, so much more would happen.”

—Liriel Higa, senior staff editor, Opinion





No.51 article:
Phillipa Soo’s Week: Fund-Raising Videos and ‘Agents of Chaos’

As Broadway remains on pause, the former “Hamilton” star voices a mythical goddess in Netflix’s “Over the Moon” and is lending her support to causes she believes in.

The actress Phillipa Soo, who played Eliza  in the Broadway smash “Hamilton,” has always considered herself politically minded. But it wasn’t until the 2016 election that she became active in political causes.

“I think I had a new perspective of what it means to be an American,” she said. “If I can lend a voice and a platform to issues that I believe in, I’m happy to do it.”

And with Broadway theaters on pause at least through May 30, Soo has been singing her support for political campaigns and arts organizations in fund-raising videos — sometimes taping three a week.

She has also been promoting her latest character, Chang’e, whom she voices in the animated musical film “Over the Moon.” An immortal Chinese goddess separated from her soul mate, she takes up residence on the moon, where she mourns lost love, turns darkness into light and belts out “Ultraluminary,” an empowerment anthem.

“It was a great way to feel connected to my own culture and heritage,” said Soo, whose father is Chinese-American. “At the same time, this is such a modern version of the moon goddess. She’s what we think of as the goddess now: amazing female figures who are singer-songwriter-performers, just larger-than-life characters.”

Calling from Brooklyn, Soo talked about how she and her husband, the actor Steven Pasquale, have kept busy during the pandemic and the ache of trading the stage for the small screen.

“Honestly, I’m glad that there’s a want and an outlet,” she said about her online performances. “But it’s not live, it’s not theater, and you really can’t replace that, which is hard at a time when you just need it.”

“So I get a little bit heartbroken when I’m making these videos,” she admitted. “Because as much as I love it, I do think that there’s an importance in being in a live audience and sharing an experience with a room full of strangers. There’s something powerful about that.”

These are edited excerpts from our conversation.

I made a “Broadway for Biden” video for a Zoom fund-raiser. A bunch of us got together and sang part of a song in our own houses or wherever we are quarantining.

We had just come back from a week in the Catskills. Since the weather got really nice, we’ve been taking car trips to go hiking as a way to get some fresh air and have a little geographical mood shift. Just being in nature, I feel like it’s so good for our mental health at this time.

I took a virtual Pilates class with Georgia Gavran. She opened a new studio called Wick Pilates right as everything shut down. She has been teaching me on a pretty consistent basis through Zoom and it has been awesome.

Then I binged the last three episodes of “I May Destroy You.” Michaela Coel is a genius. I was drawn to the fact that she’s able to tell this horrifying experience in a way where she finds her humility and her humor. She displayed all of the colors of what something so tragic can do to your life, and how it can close some doors but open new doors.

If you’d go to where it says “Recently Watched,” I’d say 60 percent [of our queue] are documentaries. Educating ourselves feels like the least we can do. We watched “Agents of Chaos,” which was great to watch after “The Comey Rule.” (I’m very proud of my husband’s work [in “The Comey Rule”] playing Peter Strzok.)

What I loved about “Agents of Chaos” was that it was essentially playing out all the things that were happening in the scripted version. We’ve been immersed in these facts for a very long time, and it’s important to see it laid out because it gives you an understanding of what is happening and how technology has played a huge part.

Our new puppy, Billie, has completely recovered [from surgery] and doesn’t have to wear her cone of shame anymore. We rescued her in May, and it just happened to align with my birthday. It was the best thing to happen in Covid times. Animals are so good for the heart and soul.

It was a low-key day because we had to monitor her, so I read some of “Number One Chinese Restaurant” by Lillian Li. I recently had to name some of my favorite books, and I found that they were all written by women, and most were written by Asian women. It’s been such a wonderful journey getting to immerse myself in stories that I didn’t read growing up. I didn’t realize until I was older how much not reading stories and seeing movies about Asian characters really affected me. I’m just so eager to consume it all.

I ended the day with a little Zoom hang with Leslie Odom Jr. and Nicolette Robinson, which was fun. Then we ended the night by watching an episode of “The West Wing.” My husband has watched it four times, but this is my first time through — even after being in “Hamilton.” Lin-Manuel [Miranda] is obsessed with “The West Wing,” and there are many little Easter egg references throughout “Hamilton.” We are on Season 6. It’s a nice palate cleanser for the times.

I had press days for “Over the Moon,” but during a four-hour break on Thursday, I shot a video for Jon Ossoff’s fund-raiser — a version of “Nature Boy” with Steven. Jon [the Democratic Senate candidate from Georgia] was one of the first people that I feel were inspired by the outcome of the election to really get involved.

Both press days were long, and I fell right into bed. We end the days now without our phones in the bedroom. (“The Social Dilemma” is one of those documentaries we’ve been watching and it definitely scared me. My husband and I looked at each other and said, “Why don’t we make an effort to leave our phones downstairs when we go up to bed?”) My sleep is so much better and the mornings are peaceful, catching up on news before we take out the dog.

I had an appointment in the city for some bodywork. We’ve been doing Wim Hof breathing exercises. It’s good for the immune system. It’s good for stress and anxiety. It’s good for your skin. So we’ve been doing that to give ourselves a little moment of reset, a little moment of meditation.

Like everyone else, we are cooking up a storm, and we’ve been going to the farmers’ market. It’s my favorite time of year because of all the beautiful fall vegetables, and you can make soup. We had a lot of grocery deliveries, and I hate all of the plastic and the paper that gets used. Going to an outdoor market is a great way to avoid that and still be safe. But no, I have not learned how to make sourdough. Why would I even bother?





No.52 article:
This Election Week, Revisit the Constitution, Then Soothe Your Stressed Mind

Calm your nerves with a meditation guide, a night at the Seattle Symphony and a day among the sea otters at the Monterey Bay Aquarium.

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

Start preparing for Thanksgiving (it’s never too soon) with the volunteer-run Homeschool Co-op’s online pie crust-making class. During this hourlong seminar, you’ll learn how to make one double crust or two single crusts from scratch. The organizers will send out a recipe in advance so that you can follow along from your kitchen. (The class is free, and attendance is limited to 100 participants.)

When 4:30 p.m.Where homeschoolcoop2020.com/all-classes

Brush up on  America’s foundational document with the Philadelphia-based National Constitution Center’s comprehensive Interactive Constitution. Browse the full text, then dig deeper with blog posts, videos and podcast episodes addressing such questions as why, really, do we have an Electoral College? And how are voting rights lawsuits being decided?

When AnytimeWhere constitutioncenter.org/interactive-constitution

Get the tools you need to teach your young child about what an election is and the voting process with PBS. The printable voting kit, best for ages 2 to 5, includes a Bingo game and “I Voted Today” badges to color, cut out and wear. For bigger kids, ages 6 to 8, take the civics conversation to the next level by having them host their own election at home and create ballot boxes. If your children are extra ambitious, you can even help them write their own news story.

When AnytimeWhere pbs.org/parents/lets-vote

Be carried away by three performances curated by the New York City Ballet principal dancer Tiler Peck. The series, called “A New Stage,” was filmed in September and is available to stream on CLI Studios, an online dance education platform. Ms. Peck stars in two of the three pieces, including “Petrushka Reimagined.” Brooklyn Mack and Lil Buck join her in this hip-hop infused interpretation of the classic ballet. In “Unusual Way,” Ms. Peck collaborates with the Broadway actress and singer Sierra Boggess. And finally, Syncopated Ladies tap along to songs by Ciara and John Legend in “Syncopated Ladies: Amplified.” The series costs $19.99 and viewers must create a free CLI Studio account to view. In addition to the ticket, you will get access to a handful of free dance classes each week. 

When AnytimeWhere clistudios.com/anewstage

Spend the evening with the Seattle Symphony, which will perform a selection of works by the composers Claude Débussy, Frank Martin, Arthur Honegger and Thomas Adès. The concert will be led by the conductor emeritus Ludovic Morlot, who returns to the orchestra for the first time since stepping down as its music director last year following an eight-year tenure. Access to online programs from the Seattle Symphony costs $12.99 per month.

When 10:30 p.m. (and on demand through Nov. 12)Where live.seattlesymphony.org

If you’re one of the more than two-thirds of Americans whose stress level has increased significantly this election season, bring some calm to your cluttered mind with The New York Times meditation guide. Learn the basics of mindfulness and what do when your mind continues to wander. The guide includes one-, four-, 10- and 15-minute recordings, as well as recommendations of tried-and-true mindfulness apps to keep your practice going.When AnytimeWhere nytimes.com/guides/well/how-to-meditate

Seize the final opportunity to watch “November,” a new film directed by Phillip Youmans  adapted from the poet and playwright Claudia Rankine’s play, “Help.” Produced by The Shed and Tribeca Studios, the film explores white male privilege and the joys of being Black by recounting conversations Ms. Rankine has had with white men in liminal spaces (like, airports or waiting areas) throughout her life, interspersed with scenes of Black life shot in New York City.

When Until Nov. 7 at 11:59 p.m.Where theshed.org/november

Explore the world of sea otters with a free course from the Monterey Bay Aquarium in California. Fun fact: These cuddly creatures have one million hairs per square inch of their bodies to help keep them warm. (For comparison, most people have 100,000 to 150,000 on their heads.)

When AnytimeWhere montereybayaquarium.thinkific.com

Listen in on a conversation between two actors, writers and iconic Texans: Matthew McConaughey and Ethan Hawke. During this discussion, hosted by the Texas Book Festival in partnership with the Austin, Tex., bookstore Book People, they will discuss Mr. McConaughey’s recently released memoir “Greenlights.” Tickets cost $41 and include a copy of the book; the fee is tax-deductible.

When 5 p.m.Where texasbookfestival.org

See “Othello” pruned back to its most essential elements during a performance of the Shakespeare classic, abridged and staged by one actor on the surface of a dining table, using household objects as characters and props. It’s part of a presentation of 36 Shakespeare plays — comedies, histories, tragedies — put on by Forced Entertainment, a theater collective based in Sheffield, England, at the Center for the Art of Performance at the University of California, Los Angeles.

When 3 p.m.Where cap.ucla.edu/calendar/details/shakespeare





No.53 article:
A Frazzled World Holds Its Breath While the U.S. Chooses Its Leader

President Trump turned American foreign policy inside out, to the benefit of some nations and consternation of others. Now both groups are watching attentively to see which direction the U.S. goes next.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

JERUSALEM — If the world could vote in Tuesday’s presidential election, Israel would be one of the reddest places on the globe.

Israel’s right-wing government has been showered with political favors by the Trump White House and backed to the hilt, culminating in normalization deals with three Arab countries that made the Middle East suddenly feel a bit less hostile to the Jewish state.

A victory for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would be a substantial loss for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Sallai Meridor, a former ambassador to the United States, said there would be “more daylight” between the White House and Mr. Netanyahu than under President Trump. “We may lose what we achieved, and we may not gain more,” he said.

American presidential elections always seize international attention, but this year is exceptional: Mr. Trump has dominated news cycles and frayed nerves in almost every corner of the earth like few leaders in history. Having lived through his impulsiveness, and his disdain for allies and dalliances with adversaries, the world is on tenterhooks waiting to see whether the United States will choose to stay that rocky course.

Germans are obsessing over the contest on newspaper front pages, in countless podcasts and in a string of documentaries with titles like “Crazy Trump and the American Catastrophe.” Australians are working out their worries by gambling on the outcome, with the odds tilting heavily in Mr. Biden’s favor.

And in Ukraine, where Mr. Trump’s demand for political dirt on Mr. Biden got him impeached, some are worrying that in a close election he could press President Volodymyr Zelensky for another favor, a congratulatory message to bestow legitimacy on a premature claim of victory.

“We are vulnerable because we are dependent on U.S. political support,” said Alyona Getmanchuk, director of the New Europe Center in Kyiv.

No country has watched the American election unfold with greater anger and grievance than China — and few have more at stake. Tensions over trade, technology and the coronavirus have brought relations to their worst level since Washington first recognized the People’s Republic in 1979.

Even so, few Chinese officials appear to harbor much hope that a defeat for Mr. Trump would usher in any improvement. Rather, given Mr. Biden’s increasingly hawkish “get tough on China” campaign rhetoric, they seem to be treating him as a more complicated challenge.

State media and ordinary Chinese online have portrayed the presidential campaign as an embarrassing battle between two geriatrics, with one magazine, Caijing, asking, “Why does the American presidential debate look like a quarrel in a wet market?”

But President Xi Jinping appeared to be taking a direct shot at Mr. Trump last week when he said, “In the contemporary world, any unilateralism, protectionism or extreme egoism will never work.”

In Russia, which the C.I.A. accuses of mounting a clandestine effort to re-elect Mr. Trump, pro-Kremlin news organizations have played up the possibility of violence and chaos, allowing commentators who depict American democracy as rotten to the core to declare the campaign an I-told-you-so moment.

“Is America one step away from civil war?” read a headline in Komsomolskaya Pravda, the country’s most popular tabloid.

But a majority of Russians say it makes no difference to them who wins. “Trump was a good president for Russia, but it didn’t matter,” said Arsen P. Arutyunyan, 25, a small-business owner in Moscow. “Let Putin be a good president for Russia.”

To the Europeans, a Trump re-election would confirm that the United States is giving up its leadership role in the western alliance.

Beyond questioning membership in NATO, Mr. Trump has labeled the European Union a competitor and rival, tried to drive wedges among European countries — supporting Brexit and wondering to German and French leaders when they intended to leave the bloc — and promoted right-wing populism.

Many Europeans fear a more radical and even less constrained Mr. Trump in a second term, freer to act on his instincts — like those that guided his response to the Covid-19 pandemic, in which he ignored epidemiologists, mocked mask wearers and insisted the virus would just go away.

A Biden presidency, by comparison, would be welcomed as “a return to civilization,” said François Heisbourg, a French defense analyst.

Attitudes among British officials are more ambivalent, given Mr. Trump’s staunch support of Brexit — Mr. Biden said he would have opposed it — and close relationship with Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

British officials worry that Mr. Biden would give short shrift to their top priority with Washington, an Anglo-American trade agreement. And Mr. Johnson may need to repair some scar tissue with Mr. Biden’s aides, dating back to disparaging remarks Mr. Johnson made about Mr. Obama in 2016.

But ordinary Britons have far fewer misgivings. Mr. Trump was so unpopular that his visits had to be planned to avoid huge protests, and polls show Mr. Biden favored by a lopsided margin.

But Mr. Trump does have his partisans: Central and Eastern European leaders appreciate his bolstering the American troop presence along Russia’s borders. The Bosnian Serb leader, Milorad Dodik, called Mr. Biden a “Serb hater” and urged Serbian-Americans to vote for Mr. Trump.

The stakes on Tuesday are personal for thousands of asylum seekers stuck on Mexico’s northern border in hopes of applying for refuge in the United States.

Joel Fernández Cabrera, a Cuban who has been waiting for a year in Matamoros, Mexico, said his spirits were buoyed by Mr. Biden’s commanding lead in the polls. “Everyone is following it because it’s the only ray of hope that we have,” he said. “Our hope is very, very high. If Biden wins, we’re all going to celebrate.”

Venezuelans say they are counting on Mr. Trump to help opponents of President Nicolás Maduro’s flailing, authoritarian government. “Trump was the one who helped to make Venezuela’s problems visible — and that made the rest of the world care about what happens here,” said Julio Urribarrí, 66, a university professor in Maracaibo.

In Nigeria, where the population is split between Muslims and Christians, churches will echo with prayers for Trump on Sunday, said Rev. John Joseph Hayap, chairman of the Christian Association. “You have to go with Trump,” he said. “He has brought Christianity to the White House.”

And the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, has vocally encouraged Mr. Trump’s diplomatic engagement with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, saying it stands a better chance of reaching a breakthrough than the more painstaking lower-level talks that Mr. Biden is likely to resume.

But the public is weary of Mr. Trump’s flirtation “with a dictator who had his uncle executed, killed a South Korean citizen and blew away an inter-Korean liaison office,” said Cheon Seong-whun, former head of the Korea Institute for National Unification, a government-funded Seoul think tank. “Trump has shocked South Koreans repeatedly, putting them on a constant alert,” he said. Polls show they favor Mr. Biden by nearly four to one.

Mr. Trump has continued to antagonize other parts of the globe in the final weeks of the campaign, speculating that Egypt might “end up blowing up” a contentious $4.6 billion hydroelectric dam on the Nile that Ethiopia is building. The remarks worsened one of the most delicate disputes in Africa and further polarized opinions about the American election in both countries.

Many Ethiopians are backing Mr. Biden by default, analysts said. But Yasser Rezk, an Egyptian journalist close to President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi — whom Mr. Trump once called “my favorite dictator” — said Egyptians are rooting hard for a Trump victory. “Unfortunately, we don’t have a vote,” he said.

In the Middle East, where Mr. Trump’s foreign policy has had the biggest impact, a Democratic victory could leave the autocratic leaders of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Turkey with few friends in Washington, said Hisham Melhem, a columnist for the Lebanese newspaper Annahar Al Arabi.

That could prod Saudi Arabia, which Mr. Biden has called a “pariah state,” into offering to normalize ties with Israel, if only to blunt calls to re-evaluate the Saudi-American relationship, he said.

Conversely, a Trump victory offers Israel no guarantees. A second-term President Trump, unfettered of his need to please pro-Israel evangelical voters, might rush into an overly forgiving new deal with Iran, many Israelis fret.

Mr. Meridor, the former ambassador, said that though there was no question that Mr. Trump had been good for Israel, Israelis were not blind to America’s diminishing leadership of the world over the last four years. “The most important concern for Israel,” he said, “is that America will be strong.”

Given China’s energy needs and Russia’s oil-price sensitivity, he said, “American presence and influence in the Middle East can be a check and a bargaining chip” on its rivals.

He added: “I don’t want my grandchildren to live in a world dominated by China or Russia.”

No.1 article:
Iran death toll hits daily record of 434 – as it happened

 This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

The former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson appears to have been arrested for breaking coronavirus restrictions during a heated rally in London, PA media reports. 

Images on social media showed him being led away by police officers. The 37-year-old, whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, co-founded the far-right EDL in 2009.

The Metropolitan police said they arrested a man who was at a rally at Speakers’ Corner in Hyde Park, London, on Sunday.

A spokesman said: “At 14.44hrs a man aged in his 30s was arrested under the coronavirus regulations for holding or being involved in the holding of the event: 

More than 300 Brazilians gathered on São Paulo’s main commercial thoroughfare on Sunday to protest state governor João Doria’s support for mandatory Covid-19 immunisation and testing the potential vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac, Reuters reports.

Doria has previously spoken in favour of making immunisations mandatory, once vaccines are available, sparking a spat with President Jair Bolsonaro who vows it will be voluntary. The Supreme Court’s chief justice has said the court will ultimately decide on the issue.

A number of vaccines are obligatory in Brazil, including for example Hepatitis B which is given to newborns. Brazil has had great success with large vaccination campaigns in the past, eradicating polio in the 1980s for example.

In São Paulo, the Sinovac vaccine is being tested as part of phase III clinical trials with support from the Doria government.

Brazil’s federal health ministry announced last month it would buy 46 million doses of the vaccine, contingent on regulatory approval, in a deal supported by state governors. But a day later right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro said that Brazil would not buy the vaccine.

Bolsonaro has bashed China intermittently since the campaign trail in 2018, over the country’s growing investments and influence in Brazil.

Nigel Farage plans to rebrand the Brexit Party as an anti-lockdown party called Reform UK, the party leader has announced in an article in the Telegraph where he says “it is time to redirect our energies”.

The plans to change the name are subject to approval of the Electoral Commission. 

None of the party’s candidates won a seat in the 2019 general election.

A ban on care home visits in England’s winter lockdown would violate the “fundamental human rights” of residents and their families, the National Care Forum (NCF) has warned health secretary Matt Hancock in a letter.

In a letter signed by 60 organisations, NCF leaders have urged the health secretary, along with social care secretary Helen Whately, to allow limited numbers of relatives to visit care homes.

Government guidelines currently tell care homes to “follow existing guidance” with more to come ahead of the lockdown, which will be introduced from Thursday.

Speaking at a press conference in October, Boris Johnson acknowledged the situation is “absolutely wretched” for people unable to see loved ones in care homes, adding he was “certainly looking at what we can do to... allow people to visit their elderly relatives in extreme circumstances”.

Vic Rayner, executive director of the NCF, said said: “We must balance the risk of harm from Covid-19 with the risk of harm from isolation and physical, mental, and emotional deterioration (for residents).”

Brazil recorded 10,100 additional confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and 190 deaths from Covid-19, the health ministry said on Sunday.

Brazil has registered more than 5.5 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 160,074, according to ministry data.

Just a reminder that you can get in touch with any news tips or suggestions for coverage by email or Twitter DM – thanks to everyone who’s already written in.

Scott Atlas, a top coronavirus adviser to the White House, has apologised for giving an interview to Russia’s Kremlin-backed television station RT, saying he was unaware the outlet was a registered foreign agent in the United States.Atlas, a neuroradiologist and member of the White House coronavirus task force, appeared on the channel on Saturday and criticised coronavirus lockdowns measures, calling them an “epic failure” at stopping the virus’ spread.“I recently did an interview with RT and was unaware they are a registered foreign agent,” Atlas tweeted. “I regret doing the interview and apologize for allowing myself to be taken advantage of.“I especially apologize to the national security community who is working hard to defend us,” Atlas said.RT registered as a foreign agent three years ago.

Education unions, backed by northern leaders, have warned that keeping schools and universities open in England is an inadequate “half-measure” which will sow the seeds for another lockdown next year and prolong the suffering from Covid.

The National Education Union (NEU), the biggest teaching union in the UK with almost half a million members, says schools are “an engine for virus transmission” and wants them to close again to all except “vulnerable” pupils and those with key-worker parents, to drive down transmission.

Read education correspondent Sally Weale’s report here.

Another Tory MP has warned she will vote against England’s new lockdown measures.

In a post on Instagram, Esther McVey wrote: “I will be voting against the new national lockdown on Wednesday when it comes before the House of Commons.

“The ‘lockdown cure’ is causing more harm than Covid.

“The world cannot be put on hold, and the Government must stop pressing the pause and stop button for the whole nation on a whim, with all the disastrous effects this brings to our lives, livelihoods, health and relationships.”





No.2 article:
Routine operations will be cancelled despite England lockdown, doctors say

More than 100,000 NHS vacancies expected to make Nightingale hospitals hard to staff

Hospitals will be forced to cancel routine operations across England due to pressures from resurgent Covid despite the new lockdown measures, doctors’ leaders have warned.

The NHS is facing potentially “impossible” demands in the months ahead and hospitals everywhere would soon have to follow the lead of those in the north of England and Midlands by cancelling non-essential surgery, against the wishes of NHS bosses and ministers.

Doctors’ leaders also said the new lockdown in England was necessary and inevitable but warned that tens of thousands of NHS vacancies across the service would make the Nightingale field hospitals hard to staff during a surge of Covid patients. 

“Things are going to get worse in the NHS before they get better, even with the lockdown, because it takes time for people who have been infected to get sick and come to hospital. So the impact on changes to transmission rates from the lockdown will take a while to show up,” said Dr Tom Dolphin, a consultant anaesthetist and member of the British Medical Association’s council.

Dr Claudia Paoloni, president of the Hospital Consultants and Specialists Association, said: “It’s difficult to predict if this [lockdown] will be sufficient, being implemented so late and missing the opportunity of half-term school closures, especially as it is a modified and not full lockdown, with schools, universities and manufacturing kept open.

“Although this can certainly reduce the infection rate, if adhered to fully, whether it can get the R rate [the average number of people each case infects] below 1 and keep NHS capacity to a manageable level will need close monitoring.”

Hospitals will find it hard to treat both Covid patients and those with other illnesses unless the public strictly follow the new rules from Thursday, warned Dr Alison Pittard, the dean of the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine. “The NHS won’t collapse but patients with non-Covid illnesses will suffer if we don’t control transmission and more people will die,” she said.

“Intensive care units have seen a steady increase in the number of Covid cases. Staff are back in full PPE, working in surge capacity, non-ICU staff are helping out. Routine operations are being cancelled in order to accommodate Covid patients. It all feels like deja vu but with the added burden of trying to maintain as much non-Covid activity as possible.”

NHS England and Boris Johnson want normal NHS care, especially surgery, to continue during the second wave, unlike in the spring, when it was mostly suspended. But Dr Sue Crossland, president of the Society for Acute Medicine, said that was unlikely to prove possible and that the needs of people needing life or death care because of Covid must take priority.

“A second lockdown was inevitable given the exponential rise in cases. We are now at a point where we have to minimise the risk between caring for Covid patients and ensuring that other patients waiting for treatment are also cared for in a timely fashion. It is difficult, if not impossible, to square this circle,” she said.

“The difficult decisions being advised by the scientific evidence and Sage are not easy, but we need to ensure we protect the vulnerable and keep the NHS working for those who need it most.”

The BMA’s Dolphin agreed. “You can’t turn Covid patients who are septic and breathless and unwell away at the front door. You’ve got to admit them. [But] then you’ve got no beds to admit people in for other conditions,” he said.

Senior doctors are divided over what role the seven Nightingale field hospitals might play this time. The first to open, in London, was the only one to care for patients in the spring.

Paoloni said: “The NHS has one of the lowest hospital bed bases in Europe. There are 246 beds per 100,000 population in the UK compared to 800 per 100,000 in Germany. [Given that] I suspect the Nightingales will have to be used, but staffing levels will restrict what they can be used for.” Nightingales in Manchester, Harrogate and Sunderland have been put on standby.

Dolphin cautioned that the more than 100,000 vacancies in the NHS makes staffing the field hospitals difficult. “A lot of people are saying ‘the Nightingales will save us’. But I’m not convinced they’re necessarily going to be the answer to everything. They are physically there and have beds and equipment you need, like ventilators. But who is going to staff them? There aren’t any extra doctors or nurses sitting out there doing nothing, waiting to be called up to the Nightingales.”





No.3 article:
“We’re in for a whole lot of hurt,” Fauci told the Washington Post in a hard-hitting interview published on Saturday night, three days out from election day, immediately angering the Trump White House.

“It’s not a good situation. All the stars are aligned in the wrong place as you go into the fall and winter season, with people congregating at home indoors. You could not possibly be positioned more poorly.”

More than 9.1m cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in the US and more than 230,000 people have died. Daily case counts vary but agree that on Friday the US set a world record for cases in a single day, between 99,000 and 100,000, as numbers surge in several states, many of them electoral battlegrounds key to control of the White House. On Saturday, Johns Hopkins University reported more than 81,000 new cases. There were 862 deaths, down from more than 1,000 the day before.

Donald Trump, recently recovered from the virus himself, continues to campaign for re-election, staging rallies at which mitigation strategies such as mask-wearing and social distancing are not observed and regularly claiming the US is “rounding the corner”. On Friday he made the baseless claim that doctors are rewarded financially if people die of Covid.

His challenger, Joe Biden, who leads most national and battleground state polls, is staging fewer events and observing Covid protocols.

Trump has charged that Biden is “hiding” and regularly mocked his opponent for wearing a mask. On Sunday, campaign adviser Anita Dunn told CNN’s State of the Union that since March, “what Vice-President Biden has done is basically why he’s got in this race, he showed people what a responsible president does and how a responsible president acts.”

Fauci told the Post that Biden was “taking it seriously from a public health perspective”. Trump, he said, was “looking at it from a different perspective … the economy and reopening the country.”

Judd Deere, a White House spokesman, told the Post that Trump “always put the well-being of the American people first”, and added: “It’s unacceptable and breaking with all norms for Dr Fauci, a senior member of the president’s coronavirus taskforce and someone who has praised President Trump’s actions throughout this pandemic, to choose three days before an election to play politics.”

In fact Fauci has often clashed with Trump, and recently complained about comments being used out of context in a campaign commercial.

Fauci, 79, has been director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984, serving six presidents. He is immensely popular with the public and largely seen as safe from being fired. But the Post also reported that “at one point during the interview, Fauci said he needed to be careful with his words because he would be blocked from doing appearances in the future”.

Deere said that “as a member of the Task Force, Dr Fauci has a duty to express concerns or push for a change in strategy, but he’s not done that, instead choosing to criticise the president in the media and make his political leanings known by praising the president’s opponent – exactly what the American people have come to expect from the Swamp.”

Public records show Fauci is not registered as a Democrat or a Republican.

“The Swamp” is Trump campaign speak for Washington, supposedly a den of “deep state” bureaucrats and intelligence officials dedicated to thwarting the president and feathering their own nests. Trump’s former campaign manager, Steve Bannon, a key propagator of the deep state theory now indicted for fraud, has said it is “for nut cases”.

Speaking to the Post, Fauci was critical of a controversial outsider brought into the coronavirus taskforce by Trump. Scott Atlas, a Stanford neuroradiologist and Fox News contributor, favours ending public health restrictions and pursuing “herd immunity”.

“I have real problems with that guy,” Fauci said. “He’s a smart guy who’s talking about things that I believe he doesn’t have any real insight or knowledge or experience in. He keeps talking about things that when you dissect it out and parse it out, it doesn’t make any sense.”

On Saturday, Atlas promoted an interview with RT – a Kremlin-controlled TV channel which spreads disinformation. “Lockdowns, facts, frauds,” he tweeted. “If you can’t handle truth, use a mask to cover your eyes and ears.” On Sunday he apologised for the interview, saying he was unaware RT was “a registered foreign agent”.

Fauci also said: “Right now, the public health aspect of the [White House] taskforce has diminished greatly … the last time I spoke to the president was not about any policy. It was when he was recovering in Walter Reed, he called me up.”

Fauci said he called into meetings but largely avoided the White House because “of all the infections there”. After an event for supreme court nominee Amy Coney Barrett on 26 September, cases proliferated among the Trump family, senior aides and top Republicans. Last weekend, senior aides to Vice-President Mike Pence were infected.

Fauci also addressed controversial remarks last weekend by White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who said the administration was not going to control the pandemic.

“I tip my hat to him for admitting the strategy,” he said. “He is straightforward in telling you what’s on his mind. I commend him for that.”





No.4 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

From announcing the first national lockdown in March to PMQs at the end of October

Boris Johnson announced a second national lockdown for England on Saturday evening. Here is what he has previously said about lockdown.

On 19 March, four days before the first national lockdown was announced:

I think, looking at it all, that we can turn the tide within the next 12 weeks and I’m absolutely confident that we can send coronavirus packing in this country. 

On 23 March, announcing the first full lockdown:

I can assure you that we will keep these restrictions under constant review. We will look again in three weeks, and relax them if the evidence shows we are able to. 

On 10 May, announcing the easing of the first lockdown

It is thanks to your effort and sacrifice in stopping the spread of this disease that the death rate is coming down … It would be madness now to throw away that achievement by allowing a second spike. 

On 17 July at a press conference:

It is my strong and sincere hope that we will be able to review the outstanding restrictions and allow a more significant return to normality from November at the earliest. 

In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph published on 19 July:

I can’t abandon that tool [a second lockdown] any more than I would abandon a nuclear deterrent. But it is like a nuclear deterrent, I certainly don’t want to use it. And nor do I think we will be in that position again. 

In a TV address to the nation on 22 September, announcing early closing for pubs:

If we were forced into a new national lockdown, that would threaten not just jobs and livelihoods but the loving human contact on which we all depend … We must do all we can to avoid going down that road again. 

In a statement to MPs on 12 October, announcing the three-tier alert system:

This is not how we want to live our lives, but this is the narrow path we have to tread between the social and economic trauma of a full lockdown and the massive human and, indeed, economic cost of an uncontained epidemic.

callout-coronavirus

At PMQs on 14 October:

We know that it is regionally distributed, rather than nationally distributed, at the moment, and that gives us a chance to do the right thing. [Keir Starmer] wants to close pubs. He wants to close bars. He wants to close businesses in areas across the country where the incidence is low … Let us try to avoid the misery of another national lockdown, which he would want to impose, as I say, in a headlong way.

At PMQs on 21 October:

It is the height of absurdity that [Keir Starmer] stands up and attacks the economic consequences of the measures we are obliged to take across some parts of the country when he wants to turn the lights out with a full national lockdown. 





No.5 article:
Opposition of Sunak melted away during quad meeting and PM sided with Gove and Hancock

Morgues in converted ice rinks, security guards outside overwhelmed hospitals to turn patients away, even municipal mass graves.

When Boris Johnson’s “quad” of senior ministers met on Friday, they were presented with a chilling prognosis of what would happen if they failed to take draconian action.

As they “walked down the path” of what would happen on current scientific projections, as one official put it, the opposition of the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, who had feared the devastating economic consequences of another lockdown, melted away.

And the prime minister agreed with lockdown advocates Michael Gove and Matt Hancock that the government’s only acceptable course was to reinstate the “stay at home” order of March.

Significant exceptions, including the government’s determination to keep schools open, mean this latest lockdown will be less draconian than in the spring.

But just as in March, Johnson and his colleagues will face the accusation that they have put many lives at risk by acting too late.

The prime minister’s extreme discomfort will only be exacerbated by the fact that he was arguing so enthusiastically against a nationwide lockdown less than a fortnight ago – when he reassured the public his intention was not to “lock the whole place down from John o’ Groats to Lands’ End. Turn the lights out, shut up shop”.

Meanwhile, Downing Street expended precious political capital in newly-gained seats across the north-west by fighting a bitter battle with the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, over financial support in tier 3 areas.

That row was in effect rendered irrelevant on Saturday, when Sunak extended the furlough scheme – which pays 80% of wages – across the country for another month.

Meanwhile, a No 10 operation that prides itself on slick communications, replacing leaky special advisers with hand-picked allies and banning gossipy lunches with Westminster hacks, faced the humiliation of seeing its plans emerge publicly – first late on Friday night in newspapers including the Times; and then on Saturday, as details were finalised, in a series of tweets from Robert Peston.

The comprehensive leaks infuriated Conservative MPs and led to an apologetic letter from Johnson to his own party, and Saturday’s hastily convened press conference, which was delayed by more than two and a half hours as the finishing touches were made. 

Downing Street insiders joked bleakly on Sunday that they had beaten Strictly Come Dancing in the Saturday night TV ratings, netting 4m more viewers than the family favourite, as the public tuned in to see the depressing details of what November would hold.

Johnson’s allies argue that they couldn’t have won the argument about the need for a nationwide lockdown a month or so ago, when the government’s scientific advisers first recommended it.

“At that point, do you take the public with you?,” said one. “Do you take parliament with you? Do you take the media with you? I think the answers to those questions is probably no, a month ago.”

“There was huge scepticism,” said the aide, suggesting the public may not have abided by a lockdown at that time. “Ultimately, you govern by consensus,” they added.

But many in Johnson’s own party were this weekend raging at what they see as the lack of grip shown by Downing Street – and the government’s failure to provide a clear route out of the crisis.

The prime minister’s backbench critics fall into three groups. A hard core of libertarian Conservative MPs, such as Desmond Swayne, of New Forest West, regard draconian restrictions of the kind announced on Saturday as an authoritarian outrage – an infringement of personal freedom.

A much wider group have profound worries about the economic and social impact of the new rules, with many citing the concerns of desperate business-owners in their constituencies.

And a third cohort say they will grudgingly support the lockdown in the face of the bleak epidemiological outlook; but are absolutely despairing about the government’s handling of the past few weeks – and the pandemic more broadly.

One said their response to Johnson’s announcement was “not printable in a family newspaper”.

Another that they could only support the new restrictions if the government pledges to fix the struggling test-and-trace system.

Many fear the Tories’ reputation for hard-headed competence, already threatened by three years of Brexit chaos, has been obliterated by Johnson’s zig-zag approach to tackling the virus, from “stay at home,” to “eat out to help out” and back again.

Labour’s support will ensure the new lockdown rules pass when they are voted on in the House of Commons on Wednesday, even if there is a significant rebellion on the government side.

But Keir Starmer called for a “circuit breaker” lockdown three weeks ago, and he and his front bench will also continue to hammer home the message that Johnson’s “dithering” has cost lives and livelihoods – a message it may become increasingly hard to bat away by dismissing him jokily as “captain hindsight”.





No.6 article:
On 16 October, a history teacher, Samuel Paty, was beheaded outside his school near Paris after showing pupils two caricatures of Muhammad as part of a discussion about free speech.

The French president sought to calm anti-French protests in Islamic countries after the reprinting of the&nbsp;Charlie Hebdo cartoons in an interview with Al Jazeera. Macron said he 'understands the feelings of Muslims about the caricatures'. But he said it was not his role as president to restrict freedom of expression when it caused offence





No.7 article:
Test and trace: wasteful and worse than useless

Instead of unqualified call handlers, why not make use of retired GPs to contact Covid patients, writes Dr David Maisey, while Louise Bradbury, Dora Wood and Dr Sylvia Berney are shocked at the waste of time and money

George Monbiot’s revelation that unqualified call handlers in the test-and-trace system are being inappropriately promoted to clinical contact case workers is astonishing (How teenagers ended up operating crucial parts of England’s test and trace system, 28 October. Has nobody in the Department of Health and Social Care, who requested Serco to initiate this, realised that there is a large pool of available, experienced people capable, with minimal training, of making phone calls involving clinical content to possibly distressed Covid patients? These are the tens of thousands of retired doctors in England; 28,000 retired or unlicensed doctors have been re-registered by the General Medical Council, but very few have since been employed.

There could be many more as the GMC set the maximum length of time since retirement at six years and this could be extended for this work. There is an even greater number of retired senior ward nurses who could be utilised. I am sure many doctors and nurses would take on this role for no reward other than the continued payment of their good NHS pensions and the feeling that they were playing a useful part in controlling the pandemic, so it could cost the government nothing.Dr David MaiseyRetired consultant, Belaugh, Norfolk

• I tested positive for coronavirus on 11 October. I am a practising GP and have a daughter at a local sixth form. Two of my daughter’s year group had tested positive for coronavirus the previous week. My daughter tested positive on 13 October.

On 15 October I was contacted by test and trace. The caller asked how I was and advised me to call 111 if I was feeling unwell. She read from a script advising me of my legal obligations. No attempt was made to identify how I might have contracted the infection, nor indeed who I might have passed it on to. On learning that I was a GP, the caller asked for my opinion on face coverings and whether there was any point to them.

Three questions come to mind. Why has no attempt been made by a suitably qualified individual to identify the source of my infection or follow up potential contacts? Given the incidence of asymptomatic spread among teenagers, why was testing not offered to the whole of my daughter’s sixth form after two confirmed positive cases? And why is test and trace being staffed by people who are questioning government advice? Quite apart from the money being wasted, they could be doing more harm than good.Louise BradburyOxford

• As an NHS consultant, I have been alternately appalled and amused by my recent personal experience of the £12bn “world-beating” test-and-trace system. My husband tested positive for Covid on 24 October and subsequently received his first test-and-trace call. As there were no alternative phone numbers for our children he was told he would be called back three separate times so that he could be given the information for each of them individually, and this is indeed what happened.

Three other members of our household subsequently became unwell and tested positive and, in each case, all of the others were called again individually, the children on a parent’s phone number – 20 planned calls in all. We were told these would be repeated a further three times during our isolation period.

After the first day of fielding these, I set my phone to divert incoming calls from the 0300 number to voicemail. In less than two days I had 41 messages. It’s not preventing any Covid, but presumably all of this activity looks great for their numbers?Dora WoodConsultant in paediatric intensive care, Bristol Royal hospital for children

• My niece is a student in Manchester and, from June to August she got a holiday job, employed by Intelling to trace contacts of Covid cases. She had a day of training on how the system worked and what scripts to use. She worked four days on, four days off, on 12-hour shifts at £9.42 an hour. She had no calls for the first four weeks. In total, over three months, she contacted three cases, two of which went to voicemail. A great holiday job, but a monumental waste of taxpayers’ money and possible contributor to the failure to contain the virus.Dr Sylvia BerneyLondon

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.8 article:
Coronavirus laws and the difficult balance of personal freedoms

Ellen van der Bij and Dr Robin Murphy on the views of the former supreme court justice Jonathan Sumption

Jonathan Sumption (Hysteria and rushed laws ‘more harmful than Covid’, say campaigners, 29 October) said in his lecture last week that people have been “terrorised into surrendering basic freedoms which are fundamental to our existence” and that he regrets that the government does not heed Sage’s advice that citizens “should be treated as rational actors, capable of taking decisions for themselves and managing personal risk”.

As a former supreme court justice, surely he knows that our personal freedoms are rightly constrained by the imperative that they do not harm others. We are not allowed to drink and drive; most people who do this judge themselves not to be a risk. Science shows that they are wrong.

The tragedy of this virus is that it pits our freedom to socialise, not to risk our mental health or our jobs against the freedom of others not to have their lives and jobs put at risk. There is no good solution, only a balance that we should not see as an entitlement, but accept with regret and compassion.

To balance all these factors would require a government that was competent, well-informed, compassionate, willing to admit failure and trustworthy about being fair – one that treated us as adults and involved us, and was seen to have our best interests at heart. Then we could make a free decision to follow the rules; we would not need to be terrorised.

This government has failed on all counts. It treats us as children and we behave as such. Ellen van der Bij Bristol

• Jonathan Sumption believes future generations will consider the UK’s response to Covid as “collective hysteria and governmental folly”. Another prediction is that future generations will marvel at the remarkable collective unity that the world achieved to meet this health challenge. The world has come together to protect the lives of the vulnerable, sacrificing collective freedoms and financial gain for the health of all. This isn’t folly, but rather reflects one of humanity’s greatest aspirations – to care for one another. Dr Robin Murphy Oxford

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.9 article:
Emmanuel Macron’s actions will only fuel rage

Prof Ara Darzi says the French president is stigmatising an entire faith

The hideous attack in the Notre-Dame basilica in Nice (France will not give in to terror after Nice attack, Macron says, 29 October) and the recent beheading of the history teacher Samuel Paty recall the terrible days of Charlie Hebdo, Bataclan and the Nice lorry killer. France is now a deeply unsettled country, and Emmanuel Macron should seek to reassure his citizens.

Instead, the president has ramped up tension by clashing with Islam in an attempt to make “fear change sides”. The French government has closed mosques, searched homes and shut down associations in a crackdown on radical Islamism that has inflamed moderate Muslims in this country and around the world.

Religious tolerance is a cardinal indicator of a civilised society. Europeans have spent centuries telling others how to live, or interpret, their religion. Macron is stigmatising an entire faith based on the actions of a few violent extremists. It can have only one result – to fuel rage.Prof Ara DarziCo-director, Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College London

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.10 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Senior source says officers as well as public are weary after so many changing restrictions

Police broke up a string of raves across England over the weekend, including one involving 1,000 people, raising fears that there may be numerous breaches of the country’s Covid-19 laws in the days before the second national lockdown begins.

The decision to impose the new restrictions has also led police leaders to voice concern that officers already under strain face enforcing the new lockdown on a weary public.

They also anticipate more officers may be absent with Covid than during the first national shutdown.

The Metropolitan police said it had broken up a rave in east London attended by 1,000 people. The force said seven people had been arrested under the coronavirus regulations for holding or being involved in the staging of the unlicensed event, and that they may face £10,000 fines.

The Met, which covers London, said it had dealt with 11 unlicensed music events and illegal large-scale gatherings on Saturday, including a christening in Tottenham, north London.

Commander Ade Adelekan said: “If you think the next few days are an excuse to break the rules, think again. You will get caught, we will take action and impose the maximum sanctions.

“As well as music events there were numerous gatherings which flout the rule of six. We are still in a pandemic and it is extremely selfish of the small minority of people to carry on without regard for the regulations.”

About 500 gathered for a rave at a warehouse in Yate near Bristol, where police said some of the crowd became violent when ordered to disperse and arrests were made. Some people were still present on Sunday afternoon.

Another 300 attended a rave at a farm in Wigan, and police turned more away. Police said the tyres on seven of their vehicles had been slashed and that a 26-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of not providing personal details for a fixed penalty notice under Covid laws. A 36-year-old was arrested for alleged possession of class A drugs.

Assistant chief constable Rob Potts of Greater Manchester police said: “A comprehensive investigation has been launched to bring the organisers to justice. Where there are blatant breaches there will be robust enforcement.”

During the last lockdown young people were most likely to come into conflict with police enforcing the coronavirus regulations.

One senior police source said it was not just the public but also officers who were weary after months of changing restrictions, particularly in areas with higher infection rates.

The source said they had been working hard to enforce regulations to contain the virus: “This comes in addition to the day-to-day stuff and is difficult. Officers have been working longer hours through overtime, with less days off.”

callout-coronavirus

A return to national restrictions should be simpler to police than a patchwork of local and regional rules, but police chiefs are bracing themselves for potentially higher absences than during the first lockdown. The greater availability of testing may mean more officers have to stay at home than during the first lockdown, when absence rates were far lower than feared.

John Apter, the chair of the Police Federation, said: “Policing is already under enough pressure. My colleagues have been doing their best to police restrictions which have changed on a regular basis and have often been confusing.

“It is clear that the virus has not gone away and is spreading at an alarming rate. We must be clear in what we are asking of the public and what we are expecting of the police. The information from government must be clear and unambiguous. Anything less makes the policing of this pandemic even more challenging than it is already.”







No.11 article:
Nice terror attack: French police arrest three more men

Total of six people taken in for questioning over knife attack at basilica that killed three

French police investigating the terrorist attack in Nice have arrested three more men, bringing the number of people taken in for questioning to six.

A 29-year-old Tunisian man was arrested on Saturday in Grasse, and two other men aged 63 and 25 were later taken in for questioning from the same address. They join two men aged 33 and 35 picked up on Saturday and a 47-year-old who has been held since Thursday.

Police say data from two telephones belonging to the alleged attacker, Brahim Aouissaoui, and CCTV footage suggest he arrived in Nice late on 27 October on a train from Rome, between 24-48 hours before the attack on Thursday morning.

He was filmed near the basilica on Wednesday and during the evening phoned his family, who live near Sfax in Tunisia, to say he was in France and would be sleeping rough.

At 8.29 on Thursday he entered the Notre Dame de l’Assomption basilica and is accused of carrying out an attack that left the 60-year-old worshipper Nadine Devillers and the church sexton Vincent Loquès, 55, dead and Simone Barreto Silva, 44, with fatal injuries. Silva managed to run out of the basilica and collapsed in a nearby restaurant where she died.

As well as the large knife Aouissaoui allegedly used to kill the three, he had two more knives and a Qur’an in a backpack. He was shot several times by police who are still waiting to interview him in hospital where he is recovering from serious injuries.

French investigators are working with their counterparts in Italy and Tunisia. It is known Aouissaoui made the crossing from Tunisia to Lampedusa in Italy, arriving on 20 September, and spent a month in Covid-19 quarantine. He was in Bari in southern Italy on 9 October but after he was refused asylum he disappeared.

Churches across France were under extra protection on Sunday, All Saints Day, after the country’s security alert was raised to its highest level.

Christian Estrosi, the mayor of Nice, was due to attend a ceremony of “contemplation” on Sunday evening at the Notre Dame basilica.

Muslims were present for mass in a number of cities, including Blois and Toulouse, as a mark of respect for the victims of last week’s attack. Lahouary Siali, an imam in Toulouse, said they also wished to “reject the jihadis”.

“These people have no spirit or reason and want to make another interpretation [of the Qur’an] that we firmly reject,” he told AFP. “We have not mandated anyone, and given no power of attorney to anyone to speak on our behalf. In the name of what philosophy, what spirituality have you come to take the lives of innocent people?” 

A group of young Muslims in Lodève, in the Hérault west of Montpellier, turned out to symbolically protect their local Saint-Fulcran cathedral after Thursday’s attack, saying they were fed up with being stigmatised and insulted on social media.

“We are French, we were born and have grown up in Lodève, a place where different communities live together. There’s a cathedral and a mosque and never any problems between religions,” said Elyazid, who organised the gathering.

The French interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, told La Voix du Nord newspaper on Sunday that Aouissaoui “was only present on our national territory for a few hours. He’d clearly come to kill. Otherwise how do you explain he had only just arrived and he had several knives? Of course it’s for the anti-terrorist prosecutor to establish how his murderous project was planned, but he clearly didn’t come to obtain papers.”

He said France had sent “hundreds of extra police” to the Italian border, but added: “Unlike the far right, I don’t wish to see a terrorist in every foreigner.”

The recent attacks in France have led to a reported spate of vandalism against mosques in the country. Two people were arrested over the weekend after being caught spraying graffiti on the mosque at Panitin in Seine-Saint-Denis, which has been closed for six months for broadcasting a video criticising Samuel Paty’s course in which he showed pupils caricatures of the prophet Muhammad.

Four mosques in Rouen also reported received threatening letters following the Nice attack. Further south in the Drôme, a Muslim prayer hall was tagged with crosses.





No.12 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Scheme extended for England’s Covid lockdown despite devolved government requests weeks ago

The Welsh and Scottish governments have hit back at the “unfair” extension of the furlough scheme during England’s second lockdown, weeks after the devolved nations called for the measure to support their own tightened restrictions.

By Sunday evening, both the Scottish government and the leader of the Scottish Conservatives found themselves at odds with the Treasury, as it appeared that the scheme would only be available to the devolved nations for the duration of an English lockdown.

The finance secretary, Kate Forbes, said: “Despite discussions today, the UK Treasury continue to deny our request that full furlough at 80% be made available for businesses and employees in Scotland at any point we need it, suggesting that it is only available for the duration of a lockdown in England.”

Earlier in the day the Scottish Conservative leader, Douglas Ross, insisted the UK government “must treat Scotland the same way as England”.

Ross called for No 10 to commit to restarting furlough if a Scottish national lockdown becomes necessary, ahead of a keynote speech to the Policy Exchange thinktank on Monday, saying the guarantee “has to be made immediately”.

Forbes said that she had requested further urgent talks with Treasury ministers after receiving “no clarity” on related questions about payments for business support and whether Holyrood will receive additional Barnett consequentials as a result of increased UK support for English local government.

Echoing the Scottish government’s concerns, the Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, said that extending furlough midway through his country’s “firebreak” measures was “not fair at all”. Drakeford told BBC Radio Cymru that the UK chancellor, Rishi Sunak, had rejected his requests to increase subsidies for wages when Wales went back into lockdown.

“I got an answer quickly to say that was not possible for a number of technical reasons and so, no. Now when things change in England, they change their minds about the furlough plan. And that’s not fair.”

Drakeford later held a meeting of the Welsh cabinet to discuss the impact of the new English measures and said that he would provide more details at Monday’s regular press conference.

Speaking on the BBC’s Sunday Politics Scotland, the Scottish deputy first minister, John Swinney, said that Westminster had disregarded the issues faced in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland when the devolved nations asked for a similar extension several weeks ago.

callout-coronavirus

The latest criticisms reflect ongoing tensions between Westminster and the devolved nations, with Welsh and Scottish first ministers earlier this autumn accusing Boris Johnson of failing to speak to them directly about the possibility of a new national lockdown in England.

A Treasury spokesperson said Ross was “right that this crisis has underlined the importance of the union”.

“Our extension of the furlough scheme until December is just one part of our £200bn support package, which has protected jobs and helped millions of people across the UK continue to provide for their families.

“As we have throughout this crisis, we will continue to listen and respond to people’s concerns as the situation demands.”

Speaking on the BBC’s The Andrew Marr Show, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said he would have preferred to see a four-nations approach to a second lockdown.

While Johnson has faced heavy criticism for his delay in introducing a second lockdown, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have tightened their own restrictions in recent weeks.

Wales introduced a two-week firebreak – coinciding with school half-term, and under which shops, pubs and hotels closed and citizens were told to stay at home – from 23 October, to last until 9 November.

Two weeks earlier, Scotland introduced a similar two-week “circuit breaker” around the school half-term. Sturgeon announced a nationwide ban on drinking indoors in pubs, bars and restaurants across Scotland, and a full shutdown of all licensed premises across the central belt, where infection rates are accelerating most rapidly. Schools and early years childcare remain open and a new five-level system of Covid controls comes into force on Monday.

Coming into force on 2 November: Light controls on socialising with time limits possible on licensed premises; a maximum of eight people from three households meeting indoors, and 15 people from five households outdoors. Indoor worship, weddings and funerals capped at 50 people; car-sharing should be avoided and face coverings compulsory on public transport.

As above but only six people from two households can meet indoors in a public setting or outdoors; numbers at weddings and funerals capped at 20 and no indoor contact sports for over-18s; working in offices restricted to essential only.

As above, but no indoor socialising and only six people from two households outdoors; enhanced protective measures for schools; outdoor events banned, stadiums closed to spectators but drive-in events and cinemas allowed; no sale of alcohol indoors, except served with meals; soft play, snooker halls, nightclubs and casinos closed.

No indoor socialising; six people from two households allowed to meet outdoors; no non-essential travel; no indoor or outdoor alcohol sales; hotels, B&amp;Bs and camp sites restricted to locals or essential workers only; all stadiums and events shut; colleges and universities would have greater restrictions on mixing; amateur outdoor contact sports banned; all leisure venues closed; essential public services only.

As in level 3 but hotels and B&amp;Bs closed except for essential workers; may enforce “stay at home” rules or limit travel distances; only essential journeys on public transport; all non-essential shops are closed; hairdressers, beauticians and driving lessons banned; worship capped at 20 people; only five people allowed at weddings; gyms closed; all leisure venues, pubs, restaurants, visitor attractions and cinemas closed; only essential indoor workplaces, outdoor building and manufacturing allowed.

Severin Carrell,&nbsp;Scotland editor

In Northern Ireland, pubs and restaurants were closed for four weeks starting on 16 October with the exception of takeaways and deliveries. Schools were closed for two weeks from 19 October.

Speaking to BBC Scotland, Swinney said that while he could not categorically rule out a national lockdown in the future, the Scottish government had confidence in its own level system, under which the majority of Scots will live under level 3, which bans indoor socialising and drinking in pubs and restaurants along with travel between local authorities.

Swinney also said that, while there are significant differences in levels of coronavirus in Scotland in general compared with England, there are also significant differences within the country, for example between the Highlands and islands and west-central Scotland.





No.13 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

How new restrictions affect mortgage payments, job support, holiday refunds and more

As with the last lockdown, food shops, supermarkets, chemists and certain other retailers providing “essential goods and services” will be allowed to remain open.

Downing Street said on Sunday it would set out exactly which shops will be allowed to stay open in the coming days.

Expect bike shops, off-licences and wine merchants to get the green light. The government has indicated that garden centres will remain open, in which case DIY stores might be allowed to keep their doors open, too.

Virtually everything else. All non-essential retailers must close on Wednesday night, as must all pubs, cafes, and restaurants. All indoor and outdoor leisure facilities such as bowling alleys, leisure centres, gyms, swimming pools, golf courses and kids’ soft-play areas must all close.

It is the same story for all entertainment venues, meaning all theatres, concert halls, cinemas, museums, galleries and bingo halls have to shut, as must all hairdressers and other personal care outlets.

While restaurants, bars and pubs must close to the public, they will still be allowed to provide takeaway and delivery services. One crucial difference this time around is that the government has said pubs will not be allowed to sell alcohol on a takeaway basis.

During the last lockdown, otherwise closed pubs were able to sell off their beer stocks, which helped keep many going. Unless the government reverses this decision in the next 48 hours, expect some very unhappy publicans who will have to throw away a lot of perfectly good beer.

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) has previously stated that refunds should be paid to customers who cannot take up a service because of government regulations.

Despite this, some consumers are expected to lose out. For example, Airbnb is at odds with CMA’s stance. It has stated that its standard cancellation terms will apply to all bookings made after March, meaning that some people will lose up to half their money. The company keeps its booking fee if the consumer cancels. Better to let the host cancel, in which case you are entitled to a full refund.

After the Canary Islands were added to the no-quarantine list last week, bookings went mad for November as people tried to grab some last-minute sun. If you are due to fly before Wednesday night, you can still go. Trips that were due to depart from Thursday onwards are off, and whether you receive a refund will depend on how you booked the trip.

Those who booked a package tour will have that trip cancelled and will be entitled to a full refund under the package tour regulations. If you booked your own flight and accommodation, it is looking far less certain. If your flight is cancelled by the airline you can ask for a refund. 

Few travel insurance policies are paying out for the cancellation of trips booked after mid-March, when the coronavirus pandemic became a “known event”. 

Yes. The furlough scheme was due to be replaced by the far less generous job support scheme (JSS) on Sunday, 1 November. However, the furlough scheme, which has paid up to 80% of the wages – up to £2,500 a month – for more 10 million people prevented from working because of Covid restrictions, will now run until December – when this new lockdown is expected to come to an end.

From the employees’ perspective it will be identical to the scheme launched back in March. For employers, it is significantly more generous.

In recent months, the government has been paying 60% of the employee’s payments leaving the company to contribute the remaining 20% of the furlough payments. Now, the chancellor is picking up the full 80%, leaving the employer to cover pension and national insurance contributions.

 To be eligible for the extension, employees must have been on the payroll on 30 October 2020.

The government will also give England-based firms up to £3,000 a month under the local restrictions support grant if their premises is forced to close. They can also apply for £1,000 for every furloughed employee kept on until at least the end of January, or £1,500 for each unemployed 16- to 24-year-old given a ‘‘high-quality’’ work placement for at least six months.

callout-coronavirus

The government’s mortgage payments holiday scheme, which has allowed householders a six month payments deferral, was due to end on Saturday, 31 October, but this is being extended as well.

The Treasury says borrowers who have been impacted by coronavirus are entitled to a six-month mortgage payments holiday without this being recorded on their credit file.

The Financial Conduct Authority will announce further information on how the extension will practically work on Monday. Since the start of the pandemic, lenders have granted a total of £2.5m mortgage payment holidays.





No.14 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Which businesses will have to close, how many people can meet and more key questions answered

Boris Johnson has announced a four-week lockdown in England, after weeks of pressure from his scientific advisers and opposition parties to introduce tougher measures to tackle coronavirus. The full details of the restrictions will be published early this week before a vote in parliament on Wednesday.

This is what we know so far.

The national restrictions are due to come into effect on Thursday, after MPs vote on them on Wednesday, and remain in place at least until 2 December. After that, national measures are to be replaced with the current tiered system of restrictions linked to a region’s infection rate.

But it is possible that the national lockdown could be extended if the R value does not drop significantly, the cabinet office minister, Michael Gove, conceded on Sunday. Ministers hope the new measures will contain the spread of Covid-19, but so far the virus has outstripped the scientists’ “worst-case scenarios”.

Any extension of the lockdown beyond 2 December will require a vote by MPs, Downing Street has said.

While the prime minister is keen to stress the new restrictions do not amount to a lockdown of the kind the country faced in March, they are still stringent.

People can leave home only for limited reasons, including:

For childcare or education, where it is not provided online.

To go to work unless it can be done from home.

Outdoor exercise either with household members or with one person from another household.

For all medical reasons and appointments.

To escape injury or harm, such as domestic abuse.

To provide care for vulnerable people or volunteer.

To shop for food and essentials.

To see people in your support bubble.

Children will still be able to move between homes if their parents are separated.

This list is not exhaustive and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out this week when the legislation is published. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse. So far, however, forces have been reluctant to enforce the regulations aggressively.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

The health minister, Nadine Dorries, has said children under school age, as well as children and adults dependent on round-the-clock care, such as those with severe disabilities, will not count towards the limit of two people meeting outside. “This will mean that a parent can see a family member with their baby or young children,” Dorries tweeted, who added that official guidance will be updated to reflect this.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned.

There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Overnight stays away from primary residences will not be allowed, except for specific exceptions including for work.

callout-coronavirus

The prime minister said the clinically vulnerable or those aged over 60 should be especially careful and minimise contacts, but there would be no return to the shielding programme used in the first lockdown. Johnson said those in this category should work from home.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open. However, pubs will not be able to sell takeaway alcohol, even though alcohol can be bought from supermarkets and other shops.

Parents will still be able to access some registered childcare and other childcare activities, and they are able to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under. 

Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one work, but most clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Despite some lobbying, for now it seems that even distanced outdoor sports such as golf and tennis will remain off limits.

Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Dentists and opticians will not be forced to close. People will also be able to purchase and rent properties, and move home, although this must be done within the context of the new rules.

• This article was amended on 2 November 2020 to include further information about childcare.





No.15 article:
Scholars warn of collapse of democracy as Trump v Biden election looms

Dozens of experts on fascism warn of global danger, calling for action from ordinary people: ‘It is not too late’

Dozens of historians of fascism and authoritarianism have signed a letter warning that democracy “is either withering or in full-scale collapse globally”, and urging ordinary people to take action.

“Democracy is extremely fragile and potentially temporary, requiring vigilance and protection,” the scholars wrote in the letter released on Sunday. “It is not too late to turn the tide.”

More than 80 signatories, including professors and other scholars at universities in the US, Canada, and Europe, do not agree on whether to label Donald Trump a “fascist”. The fragility of democracy worldwide, they write, will continue to be an issue “irrespective of who wins the American presidency”.

“Whether Donald J Trump is a fascist, a post-fascist populist, an autocrat or just a bumbling opportunist, the danger to democracy did not arrive with his presidency and goes well beyond 3 November 2020,” the scholars write, referring to election day on Tuesday, when Trump will face Joe Biden at the polls.

However, the historians warn, particularly in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, “the temptation to take refuge in a figure of arrogant strength is now greater than ever”. They suggest citizens must be ready not only to defend democracy at the ballot box, but “if necessary, also through non-violent protests in the streets”.

“That’s the lesson, to not be complacent in moments like this,” said Jennifer Evans, a professor of German history at Carleton University in Canada and one of the lead organizers of the open letter. “This is a very dangerous time, and we all have a responsibility to prop up democracy.”

Among the many warning signs that democracy is at risk, the historians argue, are the spread of disinformation, inequality, the “politics of internal enemies” and politically motivated violence.

“We need to reveal and denounce any and all connections between those in power and those vigilante and militia forces using political violence to destabilize our democracies,” the letter urges.

Evans said she was particularly disturbed by the evidence of “the infiltration of the far right” in police and military organizations around the world, including in the US, Germany, and Canada.

Signatories to the letter include several authors who have commented on authoritarianism and fascism during Trump’s presidency, including Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a professor at New York University, and Jason Stanley, the author of How Fascism Works.





No.16 article:
Gathering at Grand Palace follows months of protests calling for reform of monarchy

Thousands of royalists have thronged to Bangkok’s Grand Palace for a glimpse of the Thai king, in a massive show of support after months of protests calling for an overhaul of the government and reform of the monarchy.

King Maha Vajiralongkorn sits at the apex of Thai power, his influence permeating every aspect of society. But the once-unassailable institution has faced an unprecedented challenge from a growing pro-democracy movement, with calls for reforms including an end to draconian royal defamation laws.

On Sunday royal devotion was on display as thousands wearing yellow shirts – the royal colour – waited near the Grand Palace clutching portraits of King Vajiralongkorn and Queen Suthida.

“We will live loyally, die faithfully,” chanted the crowd as the king emerged from the palace to greet them. “Long live the king!”

Zigzagging through the crowd, the monarch received flowers from his supporters, at one point saying “thank you” and signing a portrait, according to footage from local media.

The king, who spends long periods of time in Germany, has been in the kingdom in recent weeks to mark a Buddhist holiday and the anniversary of his father’s death. The visit has coincided with demonstrations from mostly young activists, who have staged guerrilla rallies, drawing thousands to Bangkok’s most traffic-clogged intersections as a show of defiance.

While the movement is leaderless, the protesters are united in their demand for the removal of the prime minister, Prayut Chan-ocha, a former military chief who came to power after staging a coup in 2014. But calls for reform of the monarchy have drawn a backlash from Thailand’s conservative bloc, rousing royalist groups to stage their own rallies.

“We came here to show our loyalty to the king,” said Bin Bunleurit, a former actor who decried the pro-democracy movement’s demands.

The protesters have also called for a clear accounting of the palace’s finances, which the extremely wealthy king took control of in 2018, and for the monarch to stay out of politics.

“It is not reform, it is about overthrowing the monarchy,” Bin claimed, speaking to reporters outside the palace.

So far, the pro-democracy protests have remained peaceful, but scores of students and activists have been arrested and charged – some with the serious crime of sedition.

Over the weekend three high-profile student leaders were released on bail, only to be swiftly accosted as authorities attempted to rearrest them on another charge. They were taken to hospital after an altercation with plainclothes police.

On Sunday night one of the trio, Parit “Penguin” Chiwarak, pledged in a Facebook post that they would keep pushing for their goals. “If the people do not step back, we will not step back,” he wrote.





No.17 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Critics say figures much higher than official tallies, but Putin has ruled out new lockdown

Months after the Kremlin said it had the coronavirus pandemic under control, record numbers of Russians are falling ill and dying of the disease every day, pushing the country’s health services to breaking point while Vladimir Putin has ruled out a new nationwide lockdown.

The official daily tally of new cases rose above 18,000 for the first time on Friday, when 355 deaths were also reported. Critics say the death toll indicated by tallies of excess deaths could be far higher. The increases have mirrored those in European countries such as France and Spain, but the brunt of the outbreak has been borne by far-flung regions that rarely make the evening news.

As opposed to the spring outbreak, when Moscow, St Petersburg and the Caucasus region were worst affected, the new rise has been driven by the disease’s spread across the Urals, Siberia and the border with Kazakhstan, where colder weather has already driven many people indoors.

The images coming from Russia’s regions have been grisly. In the cities of Barnaul and Novokuznetsk, bleak videos have surfaced showing the bodies of coronavirus victims clogging hospital corridors. “There are bodies everywhere,” an anonymous videographer said in one clip.

Regional officials later confirmed the images. They said they didn’t have enough pathologists to carry out autopsies, so the bodies remained on trolleys and the floors of a hospital basement that serves as a makeshift morgue.

Ambulance drivers in Omsk have complained of hospitals turning them away, forcing them to protest with sirens blaring in front of a regional health ministry building. Doctors in Kurgan said the health system had collapsed and called on the government to send military medics. “There are no places in the hospitals, there are not enough medical personnel,” they wrote in an open letter.

A shortage of oxygen in a hospital in southern Rostov-on-Don led to the deaths of as many as 13 patients in a single day, sparking an official inquiry. “The patients were panicking, trying to get oxygen from anywhere … they were like fish pulled out of the water,” Artur Toporov, an anaesthesiologist who was on call during the incident, told Novaya Gazeta. “We spoke to them. We could not do anything else for them.” Authorities have not confirmed how many people died, but a criminal investigation has been launched into five deaths.

Even Russia’s political class has been hit. A fifth of the MPs in the 450-seat Duma have fallen ill with the disease and 18 of the heads of country’s 85 regions have also been infected. The mayor of Ufa, a city of more than a million and capital of the Bashkortostan region, died of the disease on Wednesday, 35 days after testing positive.

Medics in several cities reached by the Guardian complained of poor preparation for the new rise in cases and an “unrealistic” workload for doctors. “People are acting like they are invincible, like they were already victorious, nobody is taking basic precautions,” said Maria, a paediatrician from Chelyabinsk, where infections increased sharply in September. “Conditions are just as bad as they were in spring, nothing has changed.”

A hospital doctor in the hard-hit Altai region described pressure to discharge patients because of a lack of beds. Russia’s deputy prime minister, Tatiana Golikova, told Putin on Wednesday that 16 regions were in a critical situation with more than 90% of hospital beds occupied. Five of them were at more than 95% of capacity.

Experts are hesitant to call it a second wave. They say that in most regions the first wave never truly receded. The data in recent weeks, however, has been extremely alarming.

“It’s much worse than in the first months,” said Alexey Raksha, an independent demographer who previously worked for the government statistics agency Rosstat. He cited rising official tallies, past data on excess deaths and experimental data collated by colleagues that shows an increasing number of internet searches for coronavirus symptoms. “I’m expecting huge excess mortality in October and unprecedented in November,” he said.

Excess mortality refers to the number of people who die in a given period above a past average, and it is an alternative way to estimate the toll taken by the coronavirus. Reuters reported last month that excess mortality in Russia from May to July was more than triple the official number of coronavirus deaths, leaving tens of thousands of deaths unexplained.

Raksha criticised tallies published on the government’s StopCoronavirus website, saying they should be “multiplied by four to get a much clearer picture”. The country’s current death toll is 27,656, but an estimate based on a proportion of excess mortality since April would put it between 120,000 and 130,000, he said.

Russian agencies have taken steps to block leaks. The health ministry has barred employees, including many doctors, from speaking to the media without coordinating with its press office. Data on deaths from the regions can take months to reach the public.

Many civil registration offices had stopped reporting data on deaths, Raksha said, citing instances in ten regions, particularly those hard-hit by the virus. “We need something better. The official statistics are not up to it.”

callout-coronavirus

The Russian government has defended its conservative methodologies, including the requirement that coronavirus diagnoses be confirmed by an autopsy. The lack of qualified pathologists to perform them is part of the official reason for the buildup of bodies in regional hospitals. Officials say a lack of morgue space and families’ slowness to retrieve bodies are also factors.

Russia has, however, resisted declaring a new coronavirus lockdown. “We’re not planning sweeping restrictive measures, the initiation of a so-called nationwide lockdown, which would lead to practically a complete shutdown of the economy and business operations,” Putin said at an investment conference on Thursday.

Sergei Sobyanin, the influential mayor of Moscow, said: “I very much hope that none of the severe measures being applied in Europe, in France, Germany and other countries, will be applied here.”





No.18 article:
Tropical storm Eta expected to become hurricane and heads to Central America

System formed in the Caribbean and tied record for most named storms in a single Atlantic hurricane season

Forecasters said they expected the newly-formed Tropical storm Eta to become a hurricane by Monday, shortly after the system formed in the Caribbean and tied the record for most named storms in a single Atlantic hurricane season.

The increase in named storms can be attributed to human-induced climate change. As the world’s oceans continue to warm, hurricanes are more likely.

Eta is the 28th named Atlantic storm this season, tying the 2005 record. However, this is the first time the Greek letter Eta is being used as a storm name because in 2005, after the season ended, meteorologists determined there was a storm that should have been named.

Hurricane season still has a month to go, ending on 30 November. In 2005, Zeta formed at the end of December.

The system had maximum sustained winds of 40mph on Sunday morning, the US National Hurricane Center said in an advisory. It was centered 215 miles south of Kingston, Jamaica, and 435 miles east of Cabo Gracias a Dios on the Nicaragua-Honduras border.

The system is forecast to be near the north-eastern coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras by Tuesday morning. A hurricane watch was issued for parts of both countries. Eta was moving west at about 15mph.

Rainfall totals could reach 15in in parts of Jamaica, the Cayman Islands and the southern coast of Hispaniola by Thursday evening. Isolated amounts of up to 30in could fall in portions of Honduras and Nicaragua, forecasters said.





No.19 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

With citizens and health service overstretched, protests are gaining momentum in the Italian city

The four women huddling around their neighbour in an alleyway off Via dei Tribunali, in central Naples, took turns to call an ambulance. “It’s an absolute disaster!” yelled one of them, called Antonietta. “Nobody is responding, we’ve been trying for hours.”

The woman sitting on a chair in the middle of them, with her head bent forward, had a heart problem. Not even taxi drivers were answering the phone. One woman suggested calling the police. “Now do you understand why we’re so angry?” said Antonietta. “Things are so desperate here – Covid is not the only thing that is killing us.”

Emotions are running high as coronavirus rapidly spreads through the southern Italian city and the prospect of another lockdown looms. Giuseppe Conte’s government is working towards new restrictions, expected to be decided on Monday, that could result in shutdowns in areas where the virus is escalating.

But for many in Naples, where large numbers of people are employed on precarious contracts or off the books, the fear of poverty is greater than the fear of the virus.

One of the most densely populated cities in Europe, Naples makes up the lion’s share of the infection tally in its surrounding Campania region, where daily cases have increased eightfold in less than a month to 3,669 on Saturday, the second highest in Italy after the badly hit Lombardy region in the north.

Thousands took to the streets as a curfew began last Friday after the regional president, Vincenzo De Luca, threatened a complete lockdown unless rules are observed.

The protests, for the most part peaceful, have been gathering momentum since Monday, when bars and restaurants, a mainstay of the city’s economy, were forced to close at 6pm as part of nationwide measures. Cinemas, theatres and gyms have also been closed as the central government scrambles to regain control of the pandemic.

As a result, Naples delicately balances on the precipice of not just a health but an economic disaster, something that can be seen in the narrow lanes flanking Via dei Tribunali, which epitomise the charm and contradictions of the city. There are the bars and restaurants that have flourished thanks to a boom in tourism; then there are the case bassi, ground-floor homes where multigenerational families live. The homes usually have just one room, and a door opening on to the street that provides the only source of air and light.

“There are six or seven people living in a space of around 30 sq metres,” said Father Salvatore Melluso, a priest at Caritas Diocesana di Napoli, a church-run charity. “It’s impossible for them to stay inside, let alone maintain a distance. These families are desperate and abandoned.”

Melluso, 31, worked relentlessly during the first lockdown as demand for food parcels soared. In early October, he tested positive for Covid-19 and is still in quarantine.

“The problem is colossal,” he said. “People were only starting to recover from the first lockdown. I am very afraid about a civil revolt if there is a new lockdown.”

However, with hospitals under strain, the chances of averting a second lockdown are looking increasingly slim. The number of people hospitalised for Covid-19 in Campania has jumped from 474 on 3 October to more than 1,500 on Saturday, of whom 168 are in intensive care. Emergency units are filling up as people rush to them even with mild symptoms. The virus has killed two medics in recent weeks.

One of the reasons for the rise in infections is because authorities have lost control of testing and tracing.

Maurizio Di Mauro, the director of Cotugno hospital in Naples, which specialises in infectious diseases, is trying to manage the situation from home after contracting coronavirus. He said all of those hospitalised for Covid-19 have pneumonia.

“I can’t give up,” he said. “I’m worried about the fact that we are losing track of the asymptomatic people, who are infecting entire families or transmitting the disease just by walking down the street. The more positive cases rise, the more hospitalisations will rise.”

Di Mauro suggested a complete lockdown of about three weeks to allow the test-and-trace system to recuperate. “We need to move quickly,” he added.

Bruno Zuccarelli, vice-president of the Naples order of doctors, said the main challenge nwas the shortage of health workers. “We have the technical capabilities, but completely lack specialists to deal with it,” he said.

Campania and the rest of southern Italy managed to avoid the worst of the initial phase of the pandemic. The contagion was slowed by the national measures, but also because people were keenly aware of the limitations of their health systems compared with those in the wealthier north.

“Neapolitans respected the rules so well because they saw the terrible images from Lombardy, and they understood that if the tsunami arrived here, we wouldn’t have the hospital beds to cure them,” said Luigi de Magistris, the mayor of Naples.

The mayor has clashed with regional authorities over the failure to reinforce the health system over the past six months. He said there are around 500 intensive care beds available across Campania, a region of 5.8 million people.

“There are few new beds, no ambulances, we can’t do tests quickly enough or trace,” he said. “This is why people are bitter, as they see that nothing was done to prepare.”

callout-coronavirus

Resentment is also being fuelled by the fact that thousands of people across Italy are still waiting on money owed to them as part of the furlough scheme.

Salvatore Giugliano, the owner of the family-run restaurant, Mimi alla Ferrovia, which opened in central Naples in 1943, has been covering his staff’s furlough payments in the absence of state aid. He has also protested.

“The protests are more against the institutions and their way of doing things,” he said. “They’ve asked so much of us and now threaten another lockdown without an economic plan – people are tired and exasperated.”





No.20 article:
What can we learn about 2020 from the Black Death? Dorsey Armstrong has all the answers

The US professor became an unlikely TV star this year, with a series about the plague. She explains what the 1348 pandemic can tell us today about conspiracy theories, recklessness, deurbanisation and social unrest

A pandemic rages across the globe, leaving a trail of death, confusion and economic ruin, and changing everything. This is a new disease, about which little is understood. People and communities don’t know what to do, and they react in different ways – sensibly, understandably, honourably, idiotically, criminally. Cities go into lockdown, quarantine rules are introduced, new hospitals are built to try to cope with the numbers of sick. There are heroes and acts of kindness and selflessness. There are also deniers, conspiracy theorists, finger pointers. And there are people – including those in positions of leadership and power – who don’t just fail to step up to the plate, but abandon the field of play.

The year is 1348, of course. Not 2020, but you knew that. Different deals: Covid is a virus; the Black Death – the Great Mortality, pestilence, plague – a flea-driven bacterial infection. Now (it still exists) plague is mostly treatable with antibiotics; then, of course, it lived up to its names. “The thing I like to stress to people feeling anxious about Covid is that the mortality rate for the Black Death in the 14th century was about 80%,” says Dorsey Armstrong. With Covid it is far, far lower, “although I understand absolutely it’s not encouraging to people with family members who have gotten ill and who have died”.

Armstrong, 49, is a professor of English and medieval literature at Purdue University in Indiana. She did a series of TV lectures – The Black Death: The World’s Most Devastating Plague – that became an unlikely hit. Made in 2016, way before Covid, it went out on Amazon Prime this year, just as the new pandemic struck and locked-down 21st-century humans looked to the distant past to try to understand what was happening and what may happen next.

We meet the modern way, on Zoom. She is sitting at her desk at home in West Lafayette, Indiana, in front of busy bookshelves. No plague kitsch on display, sadly. In the series she charts the spread of the Black Death across Eurasia from a panelled room decorated with skulls and rats. Standing on an oriental rug and wearing a series of brightly coloured jackets (chosen by her mum), she alternates her angle of delivery as if addressing students on different flanks of a lecture hall. The lessons are scholarly but lively, compelling and human; as likely to reference The Walking Dead as Giovanni Boccaccio’s The Decameron. And she serves them up with relish and a wry wit. So the mass graves of medieval Florence were dug deep, then filled with a layer of bodies, followed by a thin layer of earth, then more bodies, “like how one layers lasagne with cheese”.

It has been an intense few months for Armstrong. Four family members – her parents, her brother and her sister – got Covid-19. All have recovered, though her mother was hospitalised for several weeks and still suffers from exhaustion. Armstrong’s 14-year-old twin daughters have been at home all day, off school. One, who has autism and for whom school was stressful, “likes to tell us that she is having a great coronavirus … For the other, the lack of social contact is really difficult.” At the same time there has been this explosion of interest in her Black Death course, though she stresses she would “prefer that the course languished in oblivion rather than there be Covid-19 sparking an interest in it”.

Different diseases, different times, but a lot of human nature spans the centuries and Armstrong immediately saw parallels. “The thing that is most horrifying about studying the Black Death is that, in the terror, people were looking for anyone to blame,” she says. “These conspiracy theories start to circulate about Jewish populations, that this was a Jewish conspiracy and that Jews were poisoning wells and planned to wipe out medieval Christian society, which of course was absolutely not true. When Covid first erupted we saw, to my distress, scapegoating of people of Asian ancestry because it looked as if the virus had originated in China.” It didn’t help that the US president called it the “China virus” and “kung flu”. She’s not a fan.

When it was clear the Black Death was wiping out whole communities, some turned to God, prayer, even self-flagellation. Others thought, if we are going to go, let’s have a good time. Armstrong hasn’t noticed any whippings today, but the partying is going on. “We see that quite a bit with college campuses where students – 18 to 22 years old, prefrontal cortex not fully developed – have decided they are going to have a good time.”

A loss of confidence in leaders – political, religious – is another parallel. Also deurbanisation. Armstrong witnessed well-to-do New Yorkers heading to their second homes out of town when the city was hit hard in the summer. In Florence – which kind of was the New York of the 14th century – “rich Florentines fled to the countryside to try to avoid the Black Death while the city was suffering”. Then, once everyone had left, the city fathers started dishing out fines, telling people they had to come back to do their jobs. Not unlike essential workers being called back to work today.

I wonder what connection she sees between Covid and the recent protest and unrest in her country, with people calling for a radical change to deeply entrenched inequalities? “It’s not that the pandemic contributes to social unrest, it is that the pandemic allows other systemic problems in society to become more visible. They cannot be controlled or contained or dismissed or covered up because the systems that were in place to maintain a status quo are too busy coping with this other emergency.”

She brings up the serfs in medieval England who were suddenly enabled to tell the lord of the manor they didn’t need to stay with him, instead they could head off down the road where people were desperately needed to work the land, and actually charge wages. “In some places, people who had been at the bottom of the social order were able to carve out a better situation for themselves – if they survived the plague.”

This sounds like good news. And though the same feudal agrarian system no longer exists, even in the US midwest where Armstrong lives, perhaps opportunity for social mobility may emerge from this? “This situation has made plain that the system, especially in the US, is fatally flawed and that there are no safety nets. For the first time I hope that we will begin a conversation about universal basic income. And it’s made clear that if you connect health insurance to employment you are going to have a disaster if people lose their jobs because businesses have shut down. I hope we are going to have another conversation about universal health care in this country.”

Scholars have often said that medieval European society would have continued being medieval for longer had it not been for the Black Death. Also that it sowed the seeds that led to the Reformation and the Renaissance. And while Armstrong doesn’t dispute these positive changes, she points out that it took time for them to register. “It’s not, once we make it through, all sunshine and rainbows, but there is hope for improvement in society.”

More than a post-Covid new Renaissance, she would like to see a fundamental step backwards to shore up the foundations of society. “It would be great if we get some great literature out of this,” she says. But what she really wants to see is “communal and systemic structures in place that support people that we don’t currently have”. She looks back to Florence – I think Armstrong likes Florence – which set up the first board of health after the first wave of plague.

It’s going to be easier for the historians of the future; there is so much more documentation. “In the case of the Black Death, sometimes you don’t have information,” she says. “What we have that shows the devastation is a lack of information – bureaucratic documents that suddenly cease being continued, or a sudden silence some place because there is no one left to document what happened. Or an increase in people writing wills.”

She is in no doubt that our times will be studied, in detail; not just the 21st century, they will be zooming in much closer. “Someone will say: ‘So, what’s your field of study?’ and they’ll say: ‘Well, I do the mid-portion of 2020, I focus on March through July.’ Another will say: ‘I focus on the second half of the year.’ Because this year has been so unusual in the way it has affected all levels of society and everyone around the world.”

If more people knew about the Black Death, she thinks, things could have been different. “If people had understood the devastation plague had wrought on the medieval world, going into the current pandemic, I think more people would have taken steps to curb the spread of Covid a little earlier.”

She’s not suggesting that Donald Trump wasn’t up on his medieval history, is she? “Or with what is happening right now. Or reality.” And she rattles off the list of failures – delayed lockdown, not enough adequate PPE or accurate test and tracing, no coordinated national plan – that could so easily also be applied to this country. Oh, go on, give him a score, it’s part of your job. Student Trump, out of 10? “Minus 20.”





No.21 article:
Arrests and injuries in Madrid and looting in Logroño amid anger over Covid restrictions

Spain’s prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, has called for an end to “the violent and irrational behaviour” of a minority of people after a weekend of angry demonstrations in cities around the country against the government’s decision to declare a six-month state of emergency in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

Thirty-two people were arrested and 12 injured in Madrid on Saturday night after a protest over the region’s midnight to 6am curfew turned violent, with rubbish bins set alight on the city’s Gran Vía and skirmishes with police.

There were also protests over the weekend in Barcelona, Málaga, Vitoria, Valencia, Santander and Burgos.

Police in Logroño, the capital of the La Rioja region, arrested six people on Saturday night after bins were torched and some shops smashed and looted. Videos showed shop windows being broken and large crowds of people running from riot police.

One shop owner in the city said she had lost stock and money to the looters. “They broke three display windows, ransacked them and half the shop, broke mannequins, helped themselves to the clothes racks, ripped off the computer and took money from the cash till,” Cristina Pérez told local TV.

However, on Sunday morning groups of young people from the city took to the streets to begin clearing up the previous night’s mess and debris.

Sánchez, who secured parliamentary support earlier this week for the six-month state of emergency, appealed for calm and solidarity. “Only through responsibility, unity and sacrifice will we be able to beat this pandemic that is ravaging every country,” he tweeted on Saturday night. “The violent and irrational behaviour of minority groups is intolerable. This isn’t the way.”

The president of the Madrid region, who has clashed with Sánchez and accused the central government of overstepping its powers, also called for responsibility. “The people sowing chaos on the streets are not those most vulnerable to the virus, nor are they the ones fighting for their lives,” said Isabel Díaz Ayuso. “They are organised groups looking to take advantage of the situation and people’s fears.”

Although some of the protests have been led by far-left groups, police believe some of the demonstrations have involved “far-right elements”.

The far-right Vox party, which has bitterly criticised the Socialist-led government’s handling of the pandemic, has done little to defuse tensions. Its leader, Santiago Abascal, has said “there are more reasons than ever to protest against this government which is ruining us”, and called on the police to protect the right to protest but blamed the violence on “the far left”.

The state of emergency allows Spain’s regional governments to order an overnight curfew to run from 11pm to 6am, or to begin and finish an hour earlier or later. The only area of Spain exempt from the curfew is the Canary Islands because of what Sánchez has termed “the very positive epidemiological situation there”.

The state of emergency also permits Spain’s regional governments to bring in full or partial lockdowns, and limits public and private gatherings to six people.

Spain remains one of the countries in western Europe hardest hit by the virus. By Friday evening, it had recorded 1,185,678 cases and 35,878 deaths.





No.22 article:
Energy minister says Moscow will also focus on clean-burning hydrogen and carbon capture

Russia has no plans to rein in its production of fossil fuels in the coming decades despite the global efforts to shift towards low-carbon energy, according to its energy minister.

Alexander Novak told the Guardian that Russia did “not see that we will achieve a peak in [gas] production anytime soon” because the world’s appetite for gas would continue to grow in the decades ahead despite its growing number of climate targets.

Instead, during a crucial decade in the battle to keep a lid on rising global temperatures, Russia will pair a 50% growth in gas production with plans to become a global leader in producing clean-burning hydrogen and developing carbon capture technology.

Russia intends to ramp up gas production from its vast and inexpensive reserves to reach 1tn cubic meters a year by 2035, from just under 680bn cubic meters last year.

It also plans to increase the amount of gas it exports on giant super-chilled tankers more than four-fold, from 29m tonnes a year to 120-140m tonnes, while continuing to send about 200bn cubic meters of gas to Europe via pipelines including the politically contentious Nord Stream project.

“I believe natural gas to be an eco-friendly energy source,” said Novak. “We believe that the share of natural gas in the global energy mix will only increase. We believe this to apply not only to Europe, but globally too.”

Energy economists forecast that demand for gas will continue to grow, particularly in Asia, as more countries draw a line on burning coal, which emits almost double the carbon dioxide of gas. But EU demand for gas, of which 30% is met by Russia’s state gas monopoly Gazprom, could fall 8% below 2019 levels by the end of the decade, according to the latest report from the International Energy Agency.

Novak said Russia also planned to become a global player in the hydrogen economy, by producing and transporting the clean-burning alternative to traditional fossil fuel gas.

Hydrogen can be produced either by using renewable energy to split water molecules in a process known as electrolysis, or by splitting off the carbon dioxide from gas through pyrolysis. Novak said Russia was able to do both and was also developing technology to capture the carbon emissions created during hydrogen production to offer a genuinely “green” gas to its customers using Russia’s existing gas transport channels.

“All this has been quite expensive so far, but we believe that just like with the renewable energy sources, prices will go down over time, which will determine the pace of hydrogen adoption. To put it briefly, we can produce hydrogen and use it, as well as deliver it to consumers. We can also export the hydrogen production technologies,” Novak said.

Pursuing hydrogen production would safeguard Russia’s fossil fuel economy while helping to reduce emissions worldwide. But environmental groups, including Carbon Action Tracker, have nonetheless branded Russia’s climate plans “critically insufficient”.

The emissions targets set through the Paris Agreement are set against levels in 1990, which for Russia marked its highest emissions on record. The collapse of Soviet-era industries in the early 1990s halved the country’s emissions within a matter of years, meaning it would take very little effort for the Kremlin to record emissions which are between 25-30% lower than levels in 1990 by 2030.

Novak said: “We are working very actively in Russia, pursuing the climate agenda, working to decrease the greenhouse and CO2 emissions, and we’re working on these issues on a systematic basis.”





No.23 article:
We’d like to hear from people about how they feel about the new lockdown in England. Share your views 

Boris Johnson has announced a second national Covid lockdown in England which will come into effect on Thursday 5 November and is currently set to end on Wednesday 2 December.

The government has introduced new countrywide measures because of the rapid increase of coronavirus cases. Full details of the restrictions will be published on Tuesday.

We want to find out what you think about the new measures? How are they going to affect you? If you’re able, are you going to try and spend the lockdown away from cities or somewhere with more space? Are you intending to abide by the rules?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you wish or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.24 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

More than 2.5 million Slovaks took swab tests on Saturday, with 25,850 testing positive 

Nearly half of Slovakia’s entire population took Covid-19 swabs on Saturday, the first day of a two-day nationwide testing drive the government hopes will help reverse a surge in infections without a hard lockdown.

The scheme, a first for a country of Slovakia’s size, is being watched by other nations looking for ways to slow the virus spread and avoid overwhelming their health systems.

The defence minister, Jaroslav Naď said on Sunday 2.58 million Slovaks had taken a test on Saturday, and 25,850 or 1% tested positive and had to go into quarantine.

The EU country has a population 5.5 million and aims to test as many people as possible, except for children under 10.

More than 40,000 medics and support teams of soldiers, police, administrative workers and volunteers staffed about 5,000 sites to administer the antigen swab tests. The testing was free and voluntary, but the government has said it will impose a lockdown on those who do not participate, including a ban on going to work.

The prime minister, Igor Matovič, apologised for putting pressure on people to take part, but said the requirement was justified. “Freedom must go together with responsibility toward those who ... are the weakest among us, oncology patients, old people, people with other diseases,” he told a news conference.

Slovakia had relatively few cases in the spring and summer after swiftly imposing restrictions. But infections have soared in recent weeks, raising concerns the country may follow the Czech Republic, which has the highest two-week death rate in Europe.

callout-coronavirus

The scheme has faced opposition from some experts who doubted it made sense as an one-off measure, or pointed to the antigen tests used, which are less accurate than the laboratory PCR tests and may thus return more false negatives and false positives.

The government is planning a second round of testing next weekend.

On Sunday, Slovakia reported 2,282 new cases through PCR tests, putting the total at 59,946, not including those identified in the nationwide scheme, and 219 deaths to date.





No.25 article:




No.26 article:




No.27 article:
Belarus protesters use Telegram to keep up pressure on Lukashenko

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Protest anthems

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

The Trio and hand symbols

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

Secure messaging app pivotal to organisation of protests and spreading of news about repressions

Secure messaging app pivotal to organisation of protests and spreading of news about repressions

In a small Minsk apartment one evening last week, a group of people gathered to discuss plans for a Halloween party with a twist. There would be costumes, drinks and games, but the main event was a ceremonial funeral. The plan: to bury Alexander Lukashenko’s dictatorship.

“Maybe we should bury a pumpkin with a moustache,” suggested one young woman.

“What about a giant rat?”

“Yes! Brilliant idea! Write it down in the chat. We’ll need to work out where to get the rat model from.”

“And we’ll need spades to dig the grave. It would be cool if we have a proper grave. There’s a funeral parlour near me, maybe we can actually order a proper gravestone.”

The discussion went on in a similar vein for several hours. Those gathered were the most active members of a local group coordinating protest events in one small district of Minsk, using Telegram. The app has been a driving force of the protests against Lukashenko, since they began in August after he declared victory in a rigged election. The biggest channel has nearly 2 million followers, helping to direct the weekly Sunday protests and spreading news about new repressions.

Since August, the protest has also become localised, and hundreds of smaller groups have appeared. Now there are Telegram channels for each city, each district, and in some cases even individual apartment blocks. They provide support for people who get detailed by police, a forum to swap ideas, and in many parts of Minsk, local protest events, lectures or concerts.

The most famous of these courtyard protest venues is just north of the centre, where a mural has been painted of two DJs who achieved cult status before the election, when they were hired for a pro-Lukashenko gathering and played the perestroika-era track Changes, which has become the unofficial anthem of the Belarusian uprising. The square has been unofficially renamed Changes Square and attracts musicians who give concerts most weekends.

White bracelets/ballot initiatives

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Protest anthems

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

The Trio and hand symbols

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

“I saw the atmosphere at Changes Square and thought it would be good to set something up for my own district,” said one of those present at the gathering last week. Others joined in, and now they form a small underground protest cell, one of thousands across Belarus.

Three months ago, hardly any of the people gathered took any interest in politics. They felt Lukashenko’s neo-Soviet authoritarianism did not affect their lives much. But things have changed quickly in Belarus, with a broad swath of the population developing political consciousness in a remarkably short time.

“At the first big protests there was a feeling of: ‘Wow, are we really allowed to do this?’ Then there was a feeling of total helplessness seeing that it was not working, and now we are doing all this organisation as a form of therapy,” said one man in his 30s, who is responsible for distributing opposition leaflets and newsletters to people’s apartments in the neighbourhood.

He has recruited a network of volunteers in each apartment block, as an intercom code is required to reach the letterboxes. “None of the carrier pigeons know who the others are, and why should they? I also don’t know the identities of the people who are printing the materials. It’s better that way, if they pick me up and start breaking my fingers, then I won’t be able to give anyone else up,” said one young man.

With thousands of people arrested in recent months, everyone here now takes precautions. When going to protest, they take rucksacks full of essentials in case they are arrested. Several say they wear two pairs of pants just in case – nobody wants to spend 15 days without a change of underwear.

As the protest mood refuses to be quashed, Lukashenko’s regime ploughs on with its grim crackdown. This week, some restaurants that joined a strike called by the opposition on Monday have been closed down, ostensibly on health and safety grounds, while Lukashenko has ordered universities to expel striking students. The dean of one university resigned, apparently unwilling to do so.

On Friday, Lukashenko said the regime would no longer “take prisoners” and would hunt down opponents even if they were hiding in private apartments. “If someone touches a serviceman, he should be left at minimum with no hands,” said Lukashenko, who has on occasion made suggestions he is ready for reform though his actions have suggested the opposite.

The district protest planners said for security reasons, they only communicated through encrypted Telegram chats, using accounts that were not linked to their phone numbers and registered under pseudonyms. Most of those gathered do not know each other’s full names, and only one of them knows who the Telegram channel administrators are.

Sometimes, the conspiratorial chatter last week could seem a little bit overdone. It was only a local Halloween party they were discussing, after all. But the caution turned out to be far from misplaced. In the days after the meeting, strange men arrived at the apartment of one of the channel’s administrators and rang the doorbell for 15 minutes.

She did not open the door, and waited for them to leave. Later, after other group members had done a sweep of the area and given the all clear, a friend picked her up and brought her away. Shortly afterwards, her landlord received a call from the authorities that they had a warrant to search the apartment. The rest of the group are now worried for their safety. Some of the details in this article have been left vague to protect their identities.

“I don’t know what charges I face or whether I can go back, I don’t know what to do at all,” the channel administrator whose flat was searched said, on a Telegram audio call from a safe location outside Belarus. “But I know one thing: I’m not giving up the fight.”





No.28 article:
Mexicans celebrate restricted Day of the Dead amid coronavirus upheaval

With tens of thousands dead, the commemoration of lost family members has rarely been more relevant as rituals of mourning have been disrupted 

José Porfirio Martínez Castro and his wife Nery Urioles Nájera were tidying up their family tomb at the municipal graveyard in Morelia. They built a small altar for two of José’s siblings and adorned it with marigolds, sugar skulls and tiny bottles of Coca-Cola – his sister’s favourite drink.

Normally, they would spend the night of 1 November here, lighting candles and remembering their loved ones. But this year the cemetery will be closed because of Covid-19 restrictions, so they made their visit a few days early.

“I never imagined doing this,” said Martínez, from the tomb’s shady portico. “Everything has changed in 2020.”

Oceans of marigolds still adorn Mexican boulevards, sugary pan de muerto is still on sale and images of skeletons decorate everything from store windows to billboards.

But the Covid-19 pandemic has upended Day of the Dead plans. The effusive celebrations of recent years – parades inspired by the James Bond movie Spectre and “mega” altars in town squares – have been cancelled or made virtual.

Cemeteries across the country have been ordered to close, forcing many families to mark the occasion at home. 

Mexico’s coronavirus death toll stands at around 90,000, but officials admit that the true figure may well be at least 50,000 higher.

The pandemic has shattered thousands of Mexican families – but it has also interrupted many of the country’s traditional ceremonies for commemorating the dead: churches have been closed; wakes cancelled; and communities unable to gather for novenas – prayers offered for nine consecutive days.

Families who have lost loved ones in the pandemic have also suffered a social stigma in a country where conspiracy theories over coronavirus and its transmission have swirled.

“They say it was diabetes, or they died of a heart attack … or it was kidney problems,” Father Raúl Vázquez, a Jesuit priest, said, describing how relatives of Covid victims refer to the cause of death. “They’re scared of being rejected by their neighbours.”

The inability to properly commemorate loved ones has left many Mexicans still searching for closure.

“Death has a festive side in Mexico. But there’s also a very human side of deep pain. And the pain of death during the pandemic hasn’t had a place to be expressed,” said Abraham Villavicencio, a gallery curator in Mexico City, who studies Day of the Dead.

As in other countries, coronavirus victims are often cremated instead of interred. Cemeteries have limited access, preventing large family funerals and the mariachi bands that traditionally accompany them.

When Sandra Águila’s husband, Raúl, died of Covid-19 in June, she received a box of ashes from the funeral home and watched via Facebook as a priest offered prayers for multiple pandemic victims.

“It was very cold, very devastating,” recalled Águila, in her home in the Xochimilco neighbourhood of Mexico City.

She still planned to construct an altar on Sunday night, but will keep it small and adorned with simple items: fruit, chocolate skulls with her husband’s name and calabaza en dulce – a traditional dish of pumpkin cooked in syrup.

“Money’s pretty tight,” said Águila, a teacher. “This festival was always so beautiful, but it’s going to be pretty quiet this year.”

Águila’s community of San Gregorio Atlapulco, is famed for its marigolds, which have been grown on manmade islands known as chinampas since pre-Columbian times. Normally they are harvested in time for the Day of the Dead, but this season, sales have crashed, leaving greenhouses full of rotting flowers.

“We used to sell everything and prices would increase as the Day of the Dead approached,” said flower farmer Roberto de los Santos, who figured his sales would plunge 60% this year.

In recent years, the Day of the Dead has become big business in some parts of Mexico. Michoacán, a state to the west of Mexico City, drew thousands of tourists to sites such as the island of Janitzio where the indigenous Purépecha people celebrate rites with boats full of flowers and candles.

“We broke records in 2019,” boasted Roberto Monroy, the tourism secretary in Morelia, the state capital. “We also broke records in 2020 – just the wrong records,” he added.

Some 55,000 visited the city’s municipal graveyard last Day of the Dead. This year, the cemetery was closed on 30 October.

Beforehand, long lines formed outside as people armed with buckets and brooms and clutching bouquets of marigolds waited to decorate their relatives’ graves. Only two people per family were allowed in; children, musicians and fresh food for offerings were banned.

“It’s sort of sad, just like all of this year,” said Karla Tejada, a jewellery seller, as she placed marigold petals on the grave of two uncles, along with a bottle each of Coca-Cola and Victoria beer.

“It will be different, but we’ll celebrate at home,” she said.





No.29 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Cardinal Vincent Nichols says he has seen no evidence to justify ban on services 

Faith leaders showed signs of dissent over new restrictions on religious worship announced by Boris Johnson, with the leader of the Catholic church in England and Wales saying he had “not yet seen any evidence” to justify the ban on services.

An organisation of imams also called for mosques to be permitted to remain open, saying they had provided valuable support to communities in recent months. 

Under measures coming into effect on Thursday, acts of collective worship will be forbidden though individual private prayer is permitted. Funerals will still take place with a maximum of 30 attending, but weddings will only be permitted in exceptional circumstances.

Religious leaders will be able to broadcast acts of worship from churches, mosques, synagogues and temples, and public services such as food banks may still be run from these premises.

The ban on communal services is likely to have a disproportionate impact on faiths that have little tradition of individual private prayers, including Islam and Judaism.

Responding to the lockdown announcement, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Catholic archbishop of Westminster, said it was “a source of deep anguish” that the government was banning public communal worship.

“Whilst we understand the many difficult decisions facing the government, we have not yet seen any evidence whatsoever that would make the banning of communal worship, with all its human costs, a productive part of combatting the virus. We ask the government to produce this evidence that justifies the cessation of acts of public worship.”

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The government had “a profound responsibility to show why it has taken particular decisions,” he said, adding: “Not doing so risks eroding the unity we need as we enter a most difficult period for our country.”

Qari Muhammad, chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board, said the ban on communal prayer in places of worship was disheartening. The Muslim community was seeking “limited communal prayer in mosques which is effectively individuals praying in unison following social distancing measures,” he added.

“The fundamental difference between mosques and some other places of worship is that mosques are first and foremost used for communal prayer.”

Throughout the pandemic, mosques supported people in need and mobilised volunteers in their neighbourhoods, he said. “Much of this work is sustained by communal prayer. We believe the continued running of mosques with all the necessary precautions is vital for the wellbeing of all communities.” 

Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, tweeted: “This is harder than the first wave – let’s be calm, compassionate and courageous … And may God guide our leaders in these tough decisions.”

Faith communities will be anxious about religious festivals that fall in the next few weeks. Diwali, the festival of lights celebrated by Hindus, Sikhs and Jains, begins on 14 November and usually lasts five days.

The eight-day Jewish festival of Hanukkah begins on 10 December, after the national lockdown is due to end. However, politicians and scientists are warning the measures may be extended after 2 December.

Christmas carol and nativity services are also likely to be cancelled if the lockdown restrictions continue into December. Many cathedrals that rely on visitor income and Christmas events will be braced for further falls in revenue and job losses.

During the first national lockdown earlier this year, faith leaders moved worship online, streaming services and other acts of collective worship, and hosting Zoom prayers.

callout-coronavirus

More than 17,000 services and events at Church of England churches have been posted online, according to a report published in October. The C of E has also been broadcasting and streaming national weekly services since the start of the pandemic.

Stephen Cottrell, the archbishop of York, said: “At a time when many have felt isolated and fearful, Church of England parishes and clergy have broadcast thousands of online church services and events, seeking to bring comfort and hope to their communities.

“We know that tens of thousands of those tuning in will never have had contact with their local Church of England parish before and may never have heard the Christian message. Their welcome presence is a sign of the great hunger we all have for spiritual meaning in our lives.”





No.30 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Minister says lockdown could last longer if infection rate has not fallen sufficiently

The England-wide lockdown announced by Boris Johnson on Saturday could be extended beyond 2 December if the infection rate does not fall sufficiently, Michael Gove has said.

When the prime minister announced the new measures in a Saturday night press conference, he said they would end on 2 December. But Gove told Sky News’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday programme the measures would be reviewed at the end of the period and could last longer if they had not done enough to contain the spread of the virus.

“We’ve got this four-week period, during which we’re going to review progress, but of course we’ll always be driven by the data,” Gove said. “We will always take a decision in the national interest, based on evidence.” Pressed on whether that meant the measures could be extended, he said “yes”.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The new lockdown marked a sharp reversal from Johnson’s repeated rejections of Labour’s calls for a “circuit-breaker” shutdown.

The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, claimed the government’s delay in implementing a lockdown had been economically and socially damaging.

“An earlier lockdown would have been better for health, better for the NHS and better for the economy,” he told Marr. Starmer promised Labour would support the new measures when they were voted on by the House of Commons on Wednesday.

Johnson has in recent weeks faced protests from Tory backbenchers sceptical about the necessity for tougher restrictions. Gove’s admission that the lockdown may need to last longer was echoed by Sir Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust and a member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage).

Farrar told BBC One’s The Andrew Marr Show that the 2 December review date was “useful”, but the government should not become fixed on it. “We don’t know what the situation is going to be like in the last week of November and the first week of December, we all hope that four weeks is going to be enough,” he said.

If infections, hospital admissions and other key metrics had not fallen sufficiently, he said, “it would be much better to extend this lockdown for another couple of weeks prior to the Christmas period and then loosen the restrictions a little bit over Christmas so that people can meet up with their families”.

“Much better to do that than remove these restrictions and then have to impose even more draconian restrictions over Christmas or soon into the new year.”

Farrar also questioned whether schools – in particular secondary schools, which some studies have suggested play a role in transmission – might need to be closed in future to make a shutdown more effective. But Gove stressed the government’s determination to ensure schools remain open – a view echoed by Starmer, whose circuit breaker call did not include closing schools.

Farrar suggested the regional approach to managing the disease, which involved local deals painstakingly assembled with leaders in Greater Manchester, Liverpool and elsewhere, was likely to give way to nationwide rules.

callout-coronavirus

However, Gove said ministers were keen to retain the ability to impose regional restrictions, to control regional outbreaks in future. “The regional approach is one that wherever possible we want to take,” he said.

Challenged by Marr about whether the government had made a mistake in failing to implement a lockdown when advised to do so by its own scientific advisers in September – when Starmer was also calling for it – Gove said it was too soon to say.

“I think it is impossible to know definitively until the end of this pandemic, which were the mistakes, and which were the missteps, which were most serious, and something that looks like a mistake at a certain point can actually in retrospect with more evidence have been proven to have been right,” he said.





No.31 article:
Cubans lose access to vital dollar remittances after latest US sanctions

Cuba closes Western Union offices after US blacklists a military-controlled firm that processes payments from Cubans abroad

Dayane Medina, a 30-year old mother, had been due to pick up the equivalent of $65 that her grandmother in Jacksonville, Florida, sent her this week.

“I don’t like asking her for money – she is too generous,” she blushed, confessing that her grandmother sometimes sells food stamps to raise money. “But I’m not working at the moment and my husband is a doctor – we can’t get by on his [$62 a month] salary.”

But Dayane, her husband and their two young children may be forced to find a way.

This week, Cuba announced the closure of more than 400 Western Union offices on the island, a move that will eliminate most remittances and aggravate the country’s profound economic crisis.

The decision was a reaction to new US sanctions: in June the Trump administration blacklisted Fincimex, a military-controlled firm that processes remittances for Western Union. Last week, the treasury department banned US companies from dealing with Fincimex altogether.

The secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said the US measure aimed to cut the Cuban military out of remittances so as to deny “the regime its misappropriated resources”.

Sanctioning Fincimex effectively dared the Communist party to shift remittance processing from a military to civilian-controlled entity. But the Cuban foreign ministry issued a defiant statement saying the island’s financial set-up was a “sovereign decision”.

Fincimex, it argued, has processed remittances for more than 20 years and during that period not “a single cent” had gone missing.

These are “the cruellest and most inhumane measures yet taken by the Trump administration against the Cuban people”, said Ric Herrero, executive director of the Cuba Study Group, a Washington thinktank that advocates for engagement with Cuba. “Family remittances are a vital lifeline for millions of Cubans, especially the elderly and other vulnerable citizens.”

Remittances, most from Cuban Americans, channel more than $3bn a year into Cuba’s ailing economy. Though data on Cuba’s foreign exchange flows is sparse, family remittances are probably the island’s third source of hard currency after tourism and the export of medical services.

The measure will reduce revenue for Gaesa, an opaque military conglomerate whose role in the Cuban economy has grown over the last decade. But it will also leave the state with less hard currency to import food and medicine. Since Covid, Cubans have had to spend hours queueing to buy food like chicken. Many vital medicines, which Cuba provides at symbolic prices, are missing.

The measure will also hit the island’s fledgling private sector.

“Entrepreneurs use remittances to buy inputs and to invest, so many will have to suspend business,” said Emily Morris, an economist from University College London. “Lots of remittances are spent on services provided by other Cubans in both registered private businesses and informal activities. They are therefore an important source of income and employment.”

The crackdown on remittances was the last in a string of moves by the Trump administration to crush the island’s economy. It has sanctioned tankers carrying Venezuelan petroleum that dock on the island, a measure which has reduced food production by forcing farmers to till fields with oxen instead of tractors.

US diplomats have threatened Latin American countries not to accept Cuban doctors and nurses during the pandemic. In recent months sanctions have prevented masks and ventilators from reaching the island.

Analysts agree this onslaught of new sanctions is primarily an electoral gambit to win votes in Florida. Behind in the polls, Trump will probably have to carry the country’s largest swing state – home to 1.5 million Cuban Americans – if he is to win next week. Polls show that Trump is enjoying huge support among Cuban Americans.

“Trump’s Cuba advisers believe that cutting off all hard currency inflows into the country will both precipitate regime change and help Trump’s electoral chances in south Florida,” said Herrero. “It’s completely asymmetric: they benefit from the rhetorical lift, and if they punish people on the island it doesn’t matter because they are still seen as tightening the screw.”





No.32 article:
Antarctica is Earth&#x27;s one virus-free continent: science fights to keep it that way

The giant land is the only place on Earth not touched by Covid. A British team is on a mission to protect it while also doing vital research

This week, 40 men and women will emerge from quarantine and board the Royal Research Ship James Clark Ross as it prepares to sail from Harwich in Essex to the South Atlantic. Their mission is straightforward. They will attempt to salvage scientific operations in Antarctica while also keeping it Covid-free.

The continent is the only place on Earth that is still untouched by the pandemic – though keeping the virus at bay there has come at a cost. All major research projects in the Antarctic have been halted. As a result, no senior British scientist will have embarked on a mission to the continent this year for the first time in decades.

Nor is Britain alone in interrupting research in a region viewed as vital for studying climate change and biodiversity loss. Most other nations that send scientists there are also putting their research on hold because of the pandemic.

“The problem is that we simply do not have the logistical support to get scientists to the Antarctic while ensuring that we can keep them Covid-free,” said Jane Francis, director of the British Antarctic Survey (BAS). “However, we are going to maintain all our data monitoring so there will be no gaps in our long-term collection of weather data, ice-sheet information and wildlife statistics. That is going to be a vitally important undertaking.”

And it will be up to the men and women who will set sail from Harwich on 5 November to ensure that these minimum scientific operations are maintained in Antarctica and crucial data collection is carried out. In addition, equipment will be serviced and made ready for the re-starting of research missions next year or later.

The James Clark Ross will be carrying technicians, divers, field guides and other service personnel so that they can collect data, maintain and run instruments and gather biological samples in the months ahead.

Ensuring they arrive free of coronavirus has required extraordinary efforts by the BAS. “Our key principal is to stop Covid getting to Antarctica,” said the survey’s head of polar operations, John Eager.

“To do that, we have picked only very fit and healthy staff who have no Covid risk factors. Then we have quarantined them for 14 days. And on top of that, we have made sure the ship will not enter any port en route so there is no further risk of picking up the virus. It will sail directly to our research stations around Antarctica.”

These efforts have been undertaken not because there is any symbolic importance in keeping Antarctica free of coronavirus, added Francis. “We are being very, very careful about keeping the continent virus-free simply because if anybody were to become really sick in Antarctica, it would be very difficult to treat them.”

It will take the James Clark Ross about eight weeks to reach the British Antarctic Survey’s main station at Rothera – via its other research centres at Signy Island in the South Orkneys, and at Bird Island and King Edward Point, both in South Georgia. Summer will be starting by then. Indeed, at Rothera, sea ice has already begun to melt as the weather warms.

“Wildlife has started to return to the station, with elephant seals and Adélie penguins already making appearances,” Robert Taylor, a field guide based at Rothera, told the Observer last week. “Normally, scientists would be flying in now and we would be preparing to take them out on the projects they would have planned. But those have all been postponed. It has become very quiet here.”

The decision to cut back on Antarctic operations is a blow for many areas of research, in particular climate science. The most dramatic changes inflicted by global heating are occurring at the poles. In Antarctica, warming waters are eating at many of the great ice shelves that extend from the land over the ocean and melting them, a development that threatens to trigger significant rises in sea levels round the planet in coming years.

“We desperately need to carry out full research programmes in Antarctica,” said Francis. “It has so much to tell us, and hopefully we will be able to pick up where we left off in a year’s time and return with large numbers of scientists. Then we can resume all the projects that we have had to postpone. Obviously that cannot be guaranteed, and we may have to postpone things for another year. We will just have to wait and see what happens.”

The James Clark Ross is scheduled to return to Britain in March, bringing home those who have spent the past 12 months on the continent. They will be coming back to a nation that has changed dramatically in that time, raising serious concerns for their future.

“Most of us left jobs to come to Antarctica – with the assumption that when we got back things would be fairly similar to when we left. It’s clear that this will not be the case,” said Taylor. “In one way, we have been fortunate because we are currently at no risk of Covid and can interact with one another in the pre-Covid fashion.”

That will change when Rothera and other station staff get back to the UK, Taylor acknowledged. “Normally, going home would mean regaining every freedom we sacrificed to come south, but this time it means swapping the natural restrictions of Antarctica for the ‘new normal’: social distancing, masks, adjusting our travel and behaviour. For good measure, there will be the added challenge of trying to see friends and family again and, of course, of finding work.”

The British Antarctic Survey has five main research centres on and around the continent.

Rothera is the BAS’s main research station. It has a small airport and is situated on Adelaide Island, west of the Antarctic Peninsula. Staff include engineers, electricians, a dive officer, a chef and a doctor.

Bird Island, South Georgia, is a centre for research into bird and seal biology. Lying off the north-west tip of South Georgia, it is considered to be one of the richest wildlife sites in the world.

King Edward Point, also on South Georgia, is a marine research station that plays a key role in monitoring the South Atlantic’s fisheries.

Signy Island, South Orkney, has a research station where studies of the Antarctic ecosystem are carried out. Gentoo, Adélie and chinstrap penguins breed there as do southern giant petrels, brown skuas and Antarctic tern.

Halley research station is currently only occupied in summer. The rest of the year it is run remotely. It is a key centre for observing climate change. Measurements taken here led to the discovery in 1985 of a massive hole in the Earth’s ozone layer. There is also a major colony of emperor penguins near the base.







No.33 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Andy Burnham and Steve Rotherham say furlough extension shows government values northern workers less 

Northern leaders have accused the government of valuing their region’s workers less than those in the south after extending the 80% furlough for the national lockdown but refusing to do the same for northerners last month.

The mayors of Greater Manchester and the Liverpool city region, which were among the first parts of the country to be subject to tier 3 restrictions, expressed anger at Westminster’s “differential” treatment of workers in the north of England at a press conference on Sunday.

“This morning millions of people woke up knowing the prime minister of this country believes the north is worth less than the south,” Steve Rotheram, the Liverpool city region mayor, said. “Quite frankly, the government has treated us with contempt again.”

Announcing England’s month-long shutdown on Saturday night, Boris Johnson extended the furlough scheme until December, with the government paying 80% of workers’ wages.

But last month, the government had been “unequivocal” in refusing to stump up more than two-thirds of the pay of hospitality workers across the north whose businesses were forced to close under tier 3 measures, Rotheram told the conference.

The mayor added that “red wall” areas would not be “fooled” into electing the Conservatives again. “I can assure the government that the people of the north won’t easily forget that they were judged to be worth less than their southern counterparts,” he said.

Andy Burnham, the mayor of Greater Manchester, called for an end to the government’s “differential treatment” of people on low wages and “people in the north versus people in the south”.

Talks between Burnham and the government collapsed 12 days ago over a difference of £5m – less than £2 for each of Greater Manchester’s 2.8 million residents – after the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, refused to pay tier 3 furlough at 80%.

Sunak tweeted the news of his change of heart on Saturday night, prompting Burnham to respond: “But when we asked you to do that for the lowest-paid people in the north, you refused. People here will remember that.”

At the conference, Burnham added that people in the region had “just completed three months of morale-sapping restrictions, and now they are waking up to the prospect of a month of even tougher restrictions”.

“I honestly don’t believe that is understood in Westminster, that already, people have been ground down by the restrictions they have been living under, and they need to understand that before we go any further forward,” he said.

Burnham also called for work to be done on a “substantial localisation” of the test-and-trace system, for self-employed people to be financially supported and for schools to close for two weeks for a “true circuit break”.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The Cabinet Office minister, Michael Gove, rejected the accusations of differential treatment, saying it was fair to offer more now because the national restrictions were more onerous. Gove told BBC One’s Andrew Marr Show he had “huge respect” for Rotheram but that “workers, whether they are in the north or in the south are being asked, families are being asked, to do more than was the case even in tier 3 areas”.

He said those offered two-thirds furlough last month could have topped up their wages to 80% or more with universal credit.

Anger and frustration was building across the north of England on Sunday, particularly from pub landlords who had spent time and money rushing to offer “substantial meals” to comply with restrictions, who will now have to shut on Thursday regardless.

There was particular frustration in West Yorkshire, which reluctantly agreed on Thursday to go into tier 3.

Pubs were due to shut in the region on Monday, with some working round the clock to find a way to stay open by serving “substantial meals” and effectively operating as a restaurant. But now they must close on Thursday but can stay open until then, after tier 3 was cancelled for West Yorkshire.

In Bradford, Daniel Horsman, a pub landlord, had spent Saturday making 150 pies he hoped to sell to every customer next week with their pints. He has run the Jacob’s Well since 2018 and complains of having to “completely redesign my business model every few weeks when the government changes its mind”.

There have been seven different rule changes since he was able to reopen in July. “It’s been bloody knackering,” he said, admitting there were times he considered shutting completely. “It has been extremely frustrating and I do feel angry at the way this has all been orchestrated, with late-night, last-minute changes.”

He does not know whether he will be able to stay open during the lockdown by offering takeaway pies, saying it will not make financial sense if doing so would disqualify him for any business grant.

callout-coronavirus

In a statement, West Yorkshire council leaders said: “Following several days of intense discussions with ministers about the introduction of new restrictions in West Yorkshire, we are frustrated and angry about the government’s timing, handling and communications around the plans for a national lockdown.

“Firstly, for our residents and businesses, we must clear up understandable confusion: the region will now NOT be moving into tier 3 (very high) measures on Monday as planned; we will remain in tier 2 (high) restrictions, and then follow the national measures from Thursday 5 November until Wednesday 2 December.

“The residents and businesses of West Yorkshire had only just begun to prepare for tier 3 measures to hit on Monday, and they are now having to change their plans once again.

“We have worked hard over the last few days to advocate for the people and businesses of West Yorkshire. It is imperative that government now honours the financial commitments made to the people and businesses of the region during these discussions in writing again now.”





No.34 article:
Police seal off area and make an arrest after Greek Orthodox cleric is seriously hurt in Lyon shotgun attack

French police were hunting a gunman who shot and seriously injured a Greek Orthodox priest in the city of Lyon yesterday afternoon.

The latest attack came two days after a terrorist killed three people at a church in Nice and two weeks after the beheading of a high school teacher.

Police and soldiers immediately sealed off Lyon’s 7th arrondissement in the hunt for the gunman and later made an arrest. The priest, said to be a Greek national aged 52, was closing the church when the man armed with a sawn-off shotgun fired at him several times, hitting him twice in the stomach.

French TV is reporting that it seems to be a “personal dispute”. Police are saying they are looking at all motives, but are advising journalists not to jump to conclusions that the incident is “terror” linked, despite the tensions and high level of alert in France.

On Saturday, French anti-terrorist police were still questioning three men in connection with the Nice attack as they tried to piece together the killer’s movements and establish if he had accomplices.

A man, aged 47, who was taken into police custody hours after the attack on Thursday and was reported to have been in contact with knifeman Brahim Issaoui the previous day, is still being held. Investigators gave no more details of the arrests of two other men aged 33 and 35.

Issaoui, a 21-year-old Tunisian who killed the three people at the city’s Notre Dame basilica, remains in a serious condition in hospital after being shot by police inside the church. Issaoui was originally named as Aouissaoui based on an Italian Red Cross document he was carrying, but his correct identity was confirmed by his family at Bou Hajla near Sfax in Tunisia.

Over the weekend, shocked and grieving locals continued to lay flowers outside the Notre Dame de l’Assomption basilica. In the crowds, one woman’s cry rose like a collective wail: “Why us? Why us again?”

It was a sentiment echoed across France. The Nice killings hit a country already reeling from the beheading of a history teacher outside his high school near Paris less than two weeks before. Samuel Paty, 47, had shown pupils two caricatures of the prophet Muhammad as part of a discussion on free speech. The reprinting of the Charlie Hebdo cartoons has provoked a wave of anti-French protests in Islamic countries, and France has been on high alert.

On Saturday, President Emmanuel Macron tried to calm anti-French protests in a 55-minute interview with Al Jazeera. Macron said he “understands the feelings of Muslims about the caricatures” of the prophet. “The caricatures are not a government project but rather the product of free and independent newspapers that are not affiliated with the government.”

He added: “I think the reactions were due to lies and misrepresentation and because people think I am in favour of these caricatures.”

As the government began expelling individuals and disbanding organisations it accused of fostering “Islamism” – which in French is understood to mean “Islamist fundamentalism” – in the wake of Paty’s murder on 16 October, the terrorist attack in Nice came as a further kick to a country that was still down. Hours later, a stringent new national Covid-19 lockdown came into effect adding to a sense of dejection.

The despondency was particularly acute in Nice. In five years, the Riviera city has suffered three terrorist attacks. In February 2015, three soldiers patrolling outside a Jewish community centre in Nice were wounded by a man vowing allegiance to Islamic State. In 2016, a terrorist drove a lorry into crowds celebrating Bastille Day, killing 86 and injuring 458.

Last week had started with Turkey and France trading verbal blows and anti-Macron protests after the French president insisted that newspapers and magazines like Charlie Hebdo had the right to publish contested caricatures. By midweek, it was, according to the interior minister, Gérard Darmanin, “a war”, not of words but of ideologies. Then came Nice.

A lone candle on the granite pavement next to a small bunch of primroses marked the spot where 44-year-old Simone Barreto Silva collapsed from her knife wounds. It was here, at the Unik kebab shop, while being tended to by paramedics, that she uttered her final words: “Tell my children I love them.”

Michel Atiah, head waiter at the neighbouring Le Socrate restaurant, described Silva as the life and soul of the party. “She was a lovely woman and very popular in the neighbourhood.”

Another regular at Le Socrate was Vincent Loquès, the church sexton, who died inside the basilica. “We often saw him. Vincent was a lovely, gentle man who used to eat here regularly.

“This is a mixed community – I am originally from Syria. We all deplore this action. Nice has been rocked by what happened yesterday and by what happened on the seafront four years ago. But it is important to remember that these are lone wolves, not representative of the Islamic community.”

On Saturday, the killer’s first victim was named as 60-year-old Nadine Devillers. “She often went to pray for people she loved. From time to time she lit a candle. She was someone who loved others, gave everything for others,” her friend Joëlle Guichard told Nice-Matin newspaper.

Inevitably, the far right has called for expulsions and a moratorium on immigration from certain countries holding anti-French protests. Marine Le Pen has called the attacks “acts of war” requiring a warlike response. At a rally in Nice on Thursday night her supporters chanted for Muslims to “go home”, and in rue Alsace Lorraine near the basilica, protesters banged on the windows of a north African restaurant.

“That is not the intelligent approach to take,” said Nathalie, who works at the Brunet bakery in the same street. “Taking reprisals against innocent folk is not going to put right the act of a lone madman.”

She added: “Monsieur Loquès came here practically every day for his baguettes. He was a kind and gentle man. I don’t think we are in danger of being overwhelmed by hate, more of an explosion of anger. We must be wary of that.”

On Sunday, French soldiers, police and gendarmes will be dispatched to protect churches and other places of worship for the important Toussaint – All Saints – holiday.

In Trappes, south-west of Paris in the Yvelines – the department where Paty was killed – which has a large Muslim community officials and religious leaders will plant an olive tree outside the Catholic church.

Ali Rabeh, the mayor of Trappes, said it was a “symbolic gesture of solidarity” with the Catholic community. Rabeh has cautioned politicians against ramping up the rhetoric of war and stigmatising “the “99.9% of French Muslims who are calm, peaceful and don’t want to bother anyone”.

“The political atmosphere is becoming more and more accusatory. Each time there is an attack, ordinary Muslims feel the finger is being pointed at them, that they carry the weight of accusations,” Rabeh told the Observer. He said he was appalled to discover that his father, a Muslim who came to France from Morocco 50 years ago and had worked “to help build this country” for more than four decades, “now feels he has to lower his head when he goes shopping”.





No.35 article:
Britain is facing ‘perfect storm of awfulness’ warns welfare expert

Louise Casey calls on the government for more help for the vulnerable as hunger and homelessness rise

The country is on course for a “perfect storm of awfulness” that will see rising homelessness, hungry children and poor families unable to cope unless the government rethinks its support for the most vulnerable, its former homelessness adviser has warned.

 Dame Louise Casey, who led the government’s emergency programme to tackle rough sleeping earlier this year, warned that a series of economic pressures were now in danger of colliding. She said that while the campaign led by England and Manchester United footballer Marcus Rashford had provided hope, and she urged ministers to act.

“What we are facing here is a perfect storm of awfulness,” she told the Observer. “Everyone has been affected by Covid, millions have seen their income drop and even those who can weather that, are thinking twice. Rashford has pulled everyone together on the key and compassionate issue of making sure kids don’t go hungry or their parents don’t have to go hungry to feed them. The spirit of the Thursday clapping to show our support to the NHS and care workers lives on in his kind, honest leadership.

“The British public do really care. The rising levels of homelessness and [with] the reduction of universal credit on the horizon, it’s hard not to feel bleak about this winter. Rashford and those supporting his campaign give me hope. Now is not the time for political division and tribal loyalty – it’s the time to bring us all together again. The government needs to heed the mood of the country and take action now. Kids should not go hungry, people should not be on the streets and the elderly deserve only the best of care that we can give.”

Her intervention came as the head of the CBI called for the government not to ditch the £1,000 increase in the basic universal credit allowance due to be axed in April. In a rare move, Carolyn Fairbairn said “having a strong safety net is going to be absolutely vital” in the months ahead.

“A period of impoverishment in our country is unthinkable,” she said. “I think the idea that the £1,000 supplement would run out in March is something that should really be rethought. It’s also about fairness. There are going to be some people who have been kept in work through variations of the job support scheme, and others who are not so lucky. The gap between those two positions should not be so great.”

Fairbairn is also calling for a new National Commission for Economic Recovery, involving business, unions, government and civil society, to plan how to revive the economy in the aftermath of the virus.

Official figures last week revealed that there had been an increase in 16- to 25-year-olds sleeping rough in London between July and September, from 250 last year to 368. The previous quarter saw a similar 48% increase.

Pressure is still mounting on the government over child hunger. A coalition of more than 50 public health directors, healthcare professionals, charities and local government figures have signed a letter to chancellor Rishi Sunak in support of a key element of Rashford’s child poverty campaign. They demand a major expansion of the Healthy Start scheme, which gives young pregnant women and low-income families with young children free vitamins and food vouchers to purchase vegetables, fruit, pulses and milk.

They want the scheme to be enhanced and offered to more people, an increase in the value of vouchers and a publicity campaign to ensure it reaches those in need. “We are ready to help in whatever way we can,” they write. “We know that the nutrition and health of mothers and young children will have profound and life-long consequences for children’s futures. A fair start in life should be a key tenet of the government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda. Now is the time to act.”

A Department for Work and Pensions spokesperson said: “We are wholly committed to supporting the lowest paid families, boosting welfare support by £9.3bn in response to the pandemic as well as introducing income protection schemes, mortgage holidays and additional support for renters and constantly keep these measures under review.”





No.36 article:
Two men arrested in India over £70,000 &#x27;Aladdin&#x27;s lamp&#x27; con

Laeek Khan alleges he was duped by pair who even pretended to conjure up a genie

Two men who allegedly duped a doctor into buying an “Aladdin’s lamp” for more than £70,000 – even conjuring up a fake genie – have been arrested in India, according to officials.

Laeek Khan approached police in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh after he realised the lamp did not have any magical powers, as described in the popular folk tale about Aladdin and his wish-granting genie that appears when it is rubbed.

“The cheats had struck a deal for much more but the doctor had paid about 7m rupees (£72,000),” Amit Rai, a senior officer, told AFP. He said the men were arrested on Thursday and were remanded in custody ahead of charges being filed.

“The wife of one of these men was also involved in the fraud. She is on the run,” Rai said.

In his complaint, filed last Sunday, Khan said one of the men pretended to be an occultist and made a “jinn”, or supernatural figure, appear from the lamp, local media reported. But when Khan asked if he could touch the genie or take the lamp home, they refused, saying it might cause him harm, the complaint stated.

Eventually they sold the lamp to him, promising it would bring health, wealth and good fortune. Khan said he later realised the “genie” was actually just one of the men in disguise.

“The men have also cheated other families using the same modus operandi. The total amount of money involved runs into several million rupees,” Rai said.





No.37 article:
As Europe&#x27;s governments lose control of Covid, revolt is in the air

Fears of civil unrest grow as people across the continent no longer trust leaders to protect them during the crisis

As the second wave of Covid-19 filled hospital wards across Europe last week, and countries inched reluctantly towards varying degrees of partial lockdown, television schedules were cleared to allow leaders to address weary nations.

Announcing a 6pm curfew for the country’s restaurants and bars the Italian prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, called for national unity. “If we all respect these new rules during the month of November,” he said, “we will succeed in keeping the epidemiological curve under control. That way we will be able to ease the restrictions and move into the Christmas festivities with greater serenity.”

Speaking from the Elysée, a sombre Emmanuel Macron decreed a new national lockdown, lasting until at least 1 December, and warned France the new wave of infections was likely to be “deadlier than the first”. In Belgium, where Covid is spreading faster than in any other European country, the new prime minister, Alexander De Croo, hoped “a team of 11 million Belgians” would pull together to follow tighter regulations.

In tone and spirit, the messages echoed those delivered in March, when shock and fear led populations to rally round leaders and consent to restrictions unknown outside wartime. Eight months on, that kind of trust and goodwill is in short supply.

Europe, once again, is the centre of the global pandemic, accounting for almost half the world’s infections last week. But as desperately needed financial support fails to materialise, and track and trace systems fail to cope with the surge, there is public exasperation and, in some cases, open rebellion. On Friday evening, protestors threw molotov cocktails at police in Florence, in the latest outbreak of social unrest following Conte’s new rules.

Pino Esposito, a Neapolitan barber, is one of those who has lost faith in the orders coming from the top. In his home city, Esposito is leading a group of small businessmen in a campaign against the new restrictions. “We are protesting,” he says, “because all European governments, including ours, have found themselves unprepared for the second wave. Since March they were saying that, in October or November, the second wave would come and that it would be even more serious.

“But no preparation has been put in place for our schools, the health system, jobs, or the providing of incentives. And the financial support we were promised is not there to access. But businesses must have it if they are to stay closed and staff need unemployment money immediately.”

Across the continent, there is similar evidence of people facing dire economic hardship and psychological exhaustion. Earlier this month, a study from the World Health Organization reported widespread apathy and reduced motivation to follow public health guidance. The emotional toll of Covid-19 has been compounded by a growing scepticism in the capacity of governments to truly get on top of a crisis that is destroying people’s livelihoods as well as threatening their health.

According to the president of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, the continent’s partial economic recovery in the summer and early autumn was “unequal, uncertain and incomplete”. As the second wave hits, she said in a recent interview, “it now risks being extinguished.”

From Milan to Manchester, and Marseille to Madrid, that prospect has sparked a wave of revolts. After the spring lockdown was eased, the subsequent patchwork of regulations and restrictions hit some workers, and regions far harder than others. The Spanish government’s decision to declare a six-month state of emergency has led to angry protests across the country and a bitter row with the conservative regional government of Madrid, which has accused it of overstepping its powers.

The mayors of nine cities, including Barcelona, Lisbon, Prague and Milan, have by-passed their national governments to write directly to the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, demanding access to the €750bn (£676bn) EU recovery fund. In Germany, where a partial lockdown beginson Monday, thousands of workers and employers in the arts and hospitality industries marched in Berlin last week, demanding greater financial support. Freelancers across the continent have fallen through the cracks of state support for those unable to work.

In Italy, a tipping point appears to be disturbingly close. Angry demonstrations erupted in Naples just over a week ago, after a local curfew was imposed. The protests were followed by civil disorder in Milan and Turin, where luxury stores were looted. “I think this is only the beginning”, says the Italian journalist and author of Gomorrah, Roberto Saviano. “In the first lockdown, Italians were united in the idea that this was an wholly novel emergency; a situation that any government would find difficult to deal with. Now they feel deceived.

“They’ve been told that things were going well, that we were winning. But their savings have been used up, they can see the problems with a testing system that isn’t working, and there is confusion and disagreement between the scientists. People have started to lose faith in the capacity of institutions to save them.”

A poll following last week’s mini-riots found that over three-quarters of Italians believe there will be more violence in the streets this winter.

“There will be unrest across Europe too,” says Saviano. “It will happen in different ways and with different catalysts, but it will come because the centre isn’t holding any more. We are a world away from the mood in March when it was a case of ‘we must follow the rules and protect ourselves or we will perish.’ Now some people think, well, I’m going under anyway if I can’t survive economically.”

The geographer Christophe Guilluy, whose books have charted the growing social divisions between provincial and metropolitan France, is similarly pessimistic about sustaining a mood of unity. Over the summer, local leaders in Marseille complained bitterly that a nighttime curfew and mask regulations had been imposed from Paris without due consultation. Macron’s move to a new lockdown, believes Guilluy, is already creating new divisions, as those with sufficient means insulate themselves from the worst of what is to come. On Thursday evening, huge traffic jams built up as Parisians attempted to flee the capital and head for second homes before a 9pm curfew. “The Parisians who have fled to their second homes,” he says “are running the risk of infecting inhabitants of provincial and rural areas. They have been very badly received.

“Inequalities between classes and between regions have been exacerbated by the pandemic. The truth is, social and cultural tensions have rarely been so acute in France, but the political classes are attempting to mask them by appealing to a sense of republican unity.”

Political rivalries and ambitions that pre-date the pandemic are also complicating the response to the second wave. In Belgium – where overwhelmed hospitals in Liège have asked Covid-positive medical staff to keep working – concerted action was stymied by high-profile disputes between politicians from the Flemish-speaking north and the Francophone south. The country has now locked down until mid-December. But the minister-president of Flanders, Jan Jambon, had previously claimed tough action was necessary only in Wallonia. By the time of his U-turn last week, 600,000 Belgians were believed to be spreading the virus.

“From May through June and right up until recently, you have seen a growing polarisation of opinion in public debate,” says Dave Sinardet, a political scientist from Saint-Louis University in Brussels. “The virologists would push for tougher measures, but there was a growing lobby for keeping the economy more open. So in September, when the infection rate was rising sharply, there was still a reduced level of restrictions. There’s a lot of criticism of the people who were giving that advice.”

The obvious failure of the country’s track and trace system is contributing to a sense of disillusionment with the management of the crisis. “There is frustration and a feeling that businesses such as cafes and restaurants did a lot, and the government didn’t do enough,” says Sinardet.

Boris Johnson will on Thursday add England to the list of European nations shutting down for a second time. According to Germany’s finance minister, Olaf Scholz: “November will be the month of truth”, in the battle against the second wave of Covid. But the indicators are that the struggle could go either way. The pace and intensity of the surge in infections has taken governments by surprise and left them looking unprepared. Public buy-in to a renewed lockdown, may need a step-change in the level of support and solidarity governments are prepared to offer. The financial cost will be enormous, but the price of inaction could be much higher.

In a column for La Stampa last week, the philosopher and former mayor of Venice, Massimo Cacciari, wrote: “A social crisis has been added to the public health one… [the crisis] is creating differences in income and living conditions which are completely incompatible with what we mean by a ‘democracy’. Are we aware of this? Up to now, I don’t think so. But there isn’t a moment to lose.”

The stakes were dramatically high before the first lockdown in March. They may be even higher now.

Additional reporting by Angela Giuffrida





No.38 article:
Rules will shut pubs, cafes and non-vital shops, while local reviews will take place after a four-week period

Boris Johnson performed an extraordinary U-turn on Saturday as he unveiled new month-long national lockdown measures across England, amid accusations that government indecision and delay will cost lives and livelihoods across the country.

With immediate warnings of the grave economic fallout and a mounting backlash among Tory MPs, the prime minister announced that a series of measures would come into force on Thursday to combat growing Covid infections. They will remain in place until 2 December.

Under the new measures non-essential shops and venues, as well as pubs and restaurants, will be closed. Schools, colleges and universities will remain open. The public will be told only to leave home for specific reasons, such as work if they cannot work from home, to shop for food and essentials, exercise, medical appointments or caring for the vulnerable.

The vulnerable and those over 60 are being advised to be especially careful and minimise their social contacts, but there will be no return of a formal request to shield themselves. Government insiders said the “time-limited” measures would then see a return to a regionalised approach.

In another major reversal, the original furlough scheme under which the state paid 80% of workers’ wages will be extended for the duration of the new lockdown. Ministers had been resisting an extension of the scheme. The move angered regional leaders who had been pleading for extra support for weeks. Mark Drakeford, the Welsh first minister, said the Treasury had refused to extend furlough when Wales’ “firebreak” lockdown began.

At a press conference, the prime minister said that he had decided to reimpose a national lockdown because “we could see deaths running at several thousand a day”. The virus, he said “is spreading even faster than the reasonable worst-case scenario of our scientific advisers”. He added: “The risk is that for the first time in our lives, the NHS will not be there for us and for our families.”

His chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said the data painted “a very grim picture”. Deaths over the winter, he warned, could be “twice as bad or more than the first wave”.

The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) had called for a “short period of lockdown” five and a half weeks ago, but was rebuffed. At that stage, the UK was averaging 4,964 new cases per day, with 1,502 Covid patients in hospital and 28 deaths. Yesterday, there were 21,915 more cases across the UK, more than 10,000 Covid patients in hospital and 326 deaths.

Johnson said he still believed a regional approach had been “the right thing to do”. However, he said the government had to be “humble in the face of nature”. He said that taking no further action would lead to the NHS being overwhelmed, with doctors and nurses being forced to choose “who would live and who would die”.

“Christmas is going to be different this year, perhaps very different,” he said. “But it’s my sincere hope that by taking tough action now we can allow families across the country to be together.” He said while the lockdown was not as strict as in the spring, the “basic message is the same: stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives.”

The move comes less than two weeks after Johnson accused Labour of attempting to “turn the lights out” following Keir Starmer’s endorsement of a circuit-breaker lockdown timed to overlap with half term. It is also an admission that the three-tier system in England, designed to contain local outbreaks, has failed .

Starmer said that the government’s delay in imposing a lockdown will come “at an economic cost and a human cost” and that the government had resisted scientific calls for it since September. He said it was unfair to pretend to the public that Christmas “will be normal”.

“I don’t think Christmas will be normal and I think we need to level with the public on that,” he said. 

Johnson revealed the measures after presenting his cabinet with dire data warning that the NHS could surpass its fixed and surge bed capacity by the first week of December, even after elective procedures are cancelled. Ministers were told the growth in this virus is national, and quicker in areas with lower case rates. A Commons vote on the measures will be held on Wednesday. Tory MPs are demanding an urgent improvement of the test-and-trace system to ensure the “nightmare” of the new measures is not needed again.

There is also private anger among the government’s scientific advisers, who say that concerns about exceeding the reasonable worst-case scenarios had been known about for weeks. Insiders expressed concerns about the government’s unwillingness to do anything seen as unpopular, adding that restrictions now had to be more severe and longer than would have been the case with earlier action. 

Ministers are already being warned a second national lockdown would hit the economy with the same force as the recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis. Industry experts said retailers and hospitality businesses, many already teetering on the brink, would join a growing queue of businesses filing for bankruptcy without further government support. The TUC general secretary Frances O’Grady said: “The extension of the furlough scheme is long overdue and necessary, but ministers must do more to protect jobs and prevent poverty.” Thousands of self-employed were said to be facing “financial calamity” without more support, according to the Association of Independent Professionals and the Self-Employed.

Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, said health service figures had been dismayed by the handling of the new lockdown plans. He said NHS trust leaders learning of the lockdown plans from newspaper reports had concluded the government’s actions were “not quick enough, decisive or clear”.

Neil Ferguson, the Imperial College London professor whose modelling still informs the government, said urgent research was taking place into whether schools and universities could continue to function as at present, given the role teenagers could be playing in the transmission of the virus.

Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium, said retailers were now facing a “nightmare before Christmas”, adding that there were “no circumstances” in which any retail premises should have to close in a second national lockdown. “It will cause untold damage to the high street in the run-up to Christmas, cost countless jobs, and permanently set back the recovery of the wider economy, with only a minimal effect on the transmission of the virus,” she said.

Sir Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust and a senior figure on Sage who had pushed for additional measures, said that the lockdown was right and warned that the lockdown should probably be imposed for the next two months. “If we can steel ourselves now for a few weeks of greater restrictions, there’s a chance we could ease up a little between Christmas and new year without the virus getting out of control,” he said yesterday.

Many scientists remained angry that the government has taken so long in heeding their advice. “Yet again, the UK has been slow to act and delayed decisive action until the last moment,” said Stephen Griffin, associate professor at Leeds University’s School of Medicine.





No.39 article:
Rescue workers found the man some 34 hours after the quake struck Turkey and Greece, killing at least 51

Rescue workers have extricated a 70-year-old man from a collapsed building in western Turkey, some 34 hours after a strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea struck Turkey and Greece, killing at least 51 and injuring more than 900 people.

Ahmet Citim was pulled out from the rubble in Izmir shortly after midnight Sunday and taken to hospital. Health minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted that the man said: “I never lost my hope.”

Search-and-rescue teams continued work in nine buildings in Izmir as day broke on Sunday. AFAD said more than 5,700 personnel from state agencies, municipalities and non-governmental organisations had been activated for rescue work and hundreds of others for food distribution, psycho-social help and building damage control.

“If they are alive, we have high chance to get to them for 72 hours,” vice president Fuat Oktay told journalists. “God willing, it will be like that.”

Dogs, cats and rabbits were also rescued from the debris.

Turkey’s disaster and emergency management service, or AFAD, raised the death toll in Izmir, Turkey’s third-largest city, to 49, as rescuers pulled more bodies out of toppled buildings.

Two teenagers also died in the quake on Friday on the Greek island of Samos and at least 19 others were injured.

The quake, which the Istanbul-based Kandilli Institute said had a magnitude of 6.9, was centred in the Aegean northeast of Samos. AFAD said it measured 6.6 and hit at a depth of some 16km (10 miles).

A small tsunami was triggered in the Seferihisar district of Izmir, drowning one elderly woman. The tremors were felt across western Turkey, in Istanbul, as well as the Greek capital, Athens. Hundreds of aftershocks followed.

AFAD said 896 people were injured in Turkey.

Turkey is crossed by fault lines and is prone to earthquakes. In 1999, two powerful quakes killed some 18,000 people in northwestern Turkey. Earthquakes are frequent in Greece as well.

In a show of solidarity rare in recent months of tense bilateral relations, Greek and Turkish government officials issued mutual messages of support for the past two days. Turkey, which saw more fatalities and damage, thanked other countries and international organisations for their statements of support.

The quake occurred as Turkey was already struggling with an economic downturn and the coronavirus pandemic. So far, more than 10,000 people with the virus have died in Turkey.





No.40 article:
Bagpipes and techno blast at Warsaw pro-choice march, but menace lurks

Women’s rights protesters incensed by the country’s strict new laws clash with rightwing gangs in the Polish capital

It was a surreal sight – and a terrible sound. On Friday evening, as tens of thousands of pro-choice protesters gathered in Warsaw for a massive demonstration against a near-total ban on abortion, military police in red berets formed a protective cordon around the Church of the Holy Cross on Krakowskie Przedmieście, an elegant thoroughfare leading from Warsaw’s Old Town to the city centre.

Behind the military cordon stood far-right activists and supporters of Poland’s ruling rightwing Law and Justice party (PiS), responding to a call by PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński to “defend Polish churches” from what government-controlled state television news describes as the “leftist fascism destroying Poland” after some churches were defaced during protests last weekend.

As the pro-choice protesters filed past the church, government supporters chanting mournful incantations blasted the screams of a crying baby through giant megaphones at the entrance to the church. The sound was broadcast on a loop, the desperate screams repeated over and over as protesters marched stoically past.

Agata and Aleksandra, both doctors from Warsaw who declined to give their surnames for fear of repercussions, were among those marching past the church and doing their best to ignore the screams. Standing under a statue of the 16th-century astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, they described their intense anger at a system that does so little to support the parents of disabled children and yet appears intent on banning terminations even in instances where a foetus is diagnosed with a serious and irreversible birth defect.

“The moment when a woman discovers that the baby is sick and will probably die just after birth, this is the worst moment of their life,” said Agata, a gynaecologist, who was carrying a placard reading, “Don’t make me torture my patients”.

“Usually these are older women in their 30s, women who really want this child, and the news leaves them completely destroyed. Until now they had a choice about whether to wait, give birth, and watch the child die – but they will not have that choice any more. As a doctor I want to help them, but now if I help them I would be going against the law.”

But if the protests, which by Friday had entered their ninth day, have been characterised by anger at Poland’s political and clerical establishments, the rage felt by many marching through the streets manifested itself within a joyful, even carnival atmosphere.

Accompanying the chants of “Fuck PiS!” and “This is war!” were thousands of humorous placards mocking Polish leaders and demanding the right to choose. Some protesters wore costumes and danced as techno music and 80s classics were blasted from speaker vans. Protesters brought drums, vuvuzelas, kitchen pots and pans – even bagpipes.

There was a sense of euphoria as the various columns of the protest converged in central Warsaw into a single demonstration of 100,000 people, defying coronavirus restrictions banning gatherings of more than five. As they chanted, the red lightning bolt symbol of the Polish Women’s Strike was projected on to the giant communist-era Palace of Science and Culture as police helicopters circled.

Not even the nationalist football hooligans who attacked the crowd on several occasions were able to spoil the mood of the protesters.

In one incident witnessed by the Observer on the central thoroughfare of Jerusalem Avenue, about a dozen men dressed in black appeared from a side street and attacked the rear of a column of protesters, appearing to beat up one man quite severely. They were confronted by protesters with what appeared to be some kind of pepper spray or tear gas, leaving several bystanders spluttering and gasping for air.

The Polish police later confirmed that several such incidents had occurred; of the 37 people arrested on Friday, 35 were associated with nationalist circles. Police also confiscated an array of weapons, including batons and knives.

Many observers blame Kaczyński, Poland’s de facto ruler, for encouraging the violence by calling on his supporters to defend churches even after far-right groups had announced their intention to create vigilante patrols to confront the protesters. Last weekend, a woman was treated in hospital after allegedly being thrown down the steps of the Holy Cross Church during clashes between pro-choice demonstrators and nationalist activists.

Much has been made in the pro-government media of the apparent “vulgarity” of the protests, with demostraters regularly chanting “Wypierdalaj”, or “Fuck off” and holding placards with messages such as “My pussy, my swamp”, and “Kaczyński [a bachelor] is fucking us because he hasn’t got anyone else”.

But protesters argue that their language is a natural response to the contempt shown towards them by their government since it assumed office in 2015.

“Our attitude has changed in recent years because we realised that when you are dealing with louts and bumpkins you have to adapt and use language that they actually understand”, said Alicja, an IT worker who was holding a sign reading, “I tried being nice, now I’m just fucking pissed off.”

And several commentators have argued that the protesters’ anger goes far beyond the present government and the issue of abortion, extending to the indignities of living in what is still a patriarchal society and under a political and legal order that was shaped in the 1990s by a previous generation of socially conservative men from both sides of the country’s political divide.

Last week, Tomasz Grodzki, the opposition speaker of the senate, in a clumsy attempt to express his support for the protests, declared: “It is women who ensure that our daily lives go harmoniously and smoothly in an almost unnoticeable way.”

‘These codgers seem to think that the [protesters’ chants of] ‘Fuck off’ only concern politicians from PiS,” wrote commentator Kaja Puto in response. “Women have taken to the streets to fight for their rights, not so that you can return to power … For the last 30 years, as you have repeated the same conservative rubbish, Polish women have changed.”





No.41 article:
Angry TV film-makers stop release of lauded Iranian documentary

Coup 53, which charts MI6’s role in the shah’s restoration, has been blocked by makers of an 1985 show, who say it sullies their names

Coup 53 was heralded by critics this summer as a “powerful and authoritative” documentary “as gripping as any thriller”, and judged by historians as crucial to understanding Britain’s relationship with the Middle East.

Made over 10 years by Walter Murch, the celebrated editor of Apocalypse Now and The English Patient, in collaboration with the Anglo-Iranian director Taghi Amirani, it tells the story of covert British intervention in Iran after the second world war and stars Ralph Fiennes, left, as an MI6 spy in a reconstruction of a key incident.

The film’s fresh perspective prompted widespread positive reaction among foreign affairs journalists, including Channel 4’s news anchor Jon Snow, who called it “utterly brilliant”.

But now angry complaints from some of the biggest names in British television, including the veteran documentary-maker Brian Lapping, have blocked the general release of Coup 53. They allege the film undermines their reputations by suggesting they kept government secrets when they first told the story on television in 1985 in the landmark Channel 4 series End of Empire, made by Granada TV.

Lord Puttnam, a major figure in British film history and a mentor of Amirani, spoke this weekend of his regret about the row. “I find it heartbreaking that a generation of film-makers that I revere should feel it necessary to block a wholly admirable new documentary made by a world-class team,” he said.

Baroness Kennedy has been asked to mediate between the two sets of warring documentary-makers, but negotiations have broken down. This weekend, Amirani and Murch told the Observer they now face a painful choice between a long legal battle or making expensive changes to important elements of their film in order to regain the right to use footage from End of Empire.

“In our documentary, we say how much we admired the research the Granada team had carried out back then,” said Murch. “It is very sad that audiences can no longer see our film, given the years we have spent on it and the positive response it has had for a year at film festivals.”

Amirani added that the “cover-up” he hoped to expose, and the one he refers to when promoting his film, was carried out by the British government, not by the makers of End of Empire. “The whole reason we made the film was to tell the full story of what happened in Iran,” he said. “The British government have still not officially admitted what it did.”

Lapping, whose criticisms have been backed by many of television’s leading figures, including former Channel 4 executive Liz Forgan, believes the new documentary implies his earlier coverage of the same historic events in Iran was compromised by government pressure, something he denies. “Coup 53 clearly implies that our team was leaned on by government to remove an alleged filmed interview; that End of Empire was complicit in censorship,” Lapping said. “We are consulting solicitors. We would much prefer not to go to the law. We will only do so if we do not get a positive response to our requests.”

At the centre of the argument is the undisputed British secret service provocation of the Iranian coup d’etat of 1953: an attempt to unseat the country’s first democratic leader, Mohammad Mossadegh, in order to reinstate the Shah on the throne. The move was secretly desired by both Britain’s postwar government and America, as a way to ensure “stability” and secure lucrative colonial interests in Iran’s oil industry.

In 1985, researchers working for Lapping at Granada interviewed a former intelligence officer who claimed to have orchestrated the coup. Norman Darbyshire, played in Coup 53 by Fiennes, detailed exactly how his actions had been calculated to prompt unrest and ultimately led to the toppling of Mossadegh’s regime. The MI6 officer said that, as part of “Operation Boot”, he spent “vast sums of money”, well over a million and a half pounds”, adding: “I was personally giving orders and directing the street uprising.” But he does not appear in the Iranian episode of End of Empire and both Lapping and one of his main researchers, Alison Rooper, says she is sure he was not filmed and did not agree to give direct testimony.

Yet Darbyshire’s explosive evidence was recorded in a typed transcript that somehow made its way to the Observer journalist Nigel Hawkes the week before the episode was broadcast in 1985.

“They may have made a mistake in giving it to me,” said Hawkes this weekend, “but it gave lots of detail about how the coup was organised, so it was a decent story.”

Donald Trelford, then editor of the Observer, recalls the powerful story that Hawkes wrote up, quoting from Darbyshire’s account, although also indicating that the former intelligence officer would not appear on screen. “The involvement of the CIA and MI6 in the coup was widely known about by then, so that wasn’t the story. We were interested in the Darbyshire interview because it provided official confirmation of it and colourful details about M16’s dirty tricks,” he said.

No further media coverage followed the revelations, but Trelford says he believes the government did not issue a “D-notice”, an official instruction preventing publication. “We had no approach from the Foreign Office or anybody else. I was a member of the D-notice committee at the time, so I would have known.”

“I do not know who handed it over to the Observer,” said Rooper last week. “Presumably, the idea was to publicise the programme.” The picture is muddied by the fact that a CIA operative also active in the field, Stephen Meade, was interviewed on the record and filmed for End of Empire, although he also did not appear in the episode. Amirani and Murch used Meade’s archived, unseen interview in their new film and suspected that similar footage of Darbyshire might also exist.

The Darbyshire transcript was, however, later seen by the author Stephen Dorril and used in his book MI6. Rooper and Dorril both appear in Coup 53; and on screen the former Granada researcher tells Amirani and Murch she has no clear memory of what happened with Darbyshire. She and Lapping claim this creates an unfair impression and suggests they had agreed to suppress content.

In 1953, after the ousting of Mossadegh, the Shah flew back to Iran from exile in Italy and ruled until the 1979 revolution that set up the current religious regime. Darbyshire died in 1993.





No.42 article:
Typhoon Goni hits Philippines with 350,000 in evacuation shelters

Authorities report four deaths, power outages, flash floods and infrastructure damage as the strongest storm this year passes over main island

Super typhoon Goni has killed four people in the Philippines after ferocious winds caused power outages and infrastructure damage. About 350,000 people were evacuated from its projected path, including in the capital, Manila, where the main international airport was ordered closed.

Goni made two landfall in two places in the Bicol region, where four deaths were reported, said provincial Governor Al Francis Bichara, including one hit by a tree and a five-year-old washed away after a river overflowed.

Video footage by news channels and on social media showed rivers overflowing and some dikes destroyed, submerging villages in Bicol.

Bichara also received reports of volcanic mud flows, as well as electricity supply and communication service outages.

In Quezon, Governor Danilo Suarez said power supply was cut in 10 towns as Goni toppled trees.

Between 19 million and 31 million people could be affected by the typhoon, including those in danger zones and in metropolitan Manila, the disaster management agency said.

“There are so many people who are really in vulnerable areas,” said Ricardo Jalad, who heads the government’s disaster-response agency. “We’re expecting major damage.”

The storm hit in the early hours of the morning with sustained winds of 215 km/h (133 mph)and gusts of 290 km/h (180 mph). It was blowing west toward densely populated regions, including Manila, and rain-soaked provinces still recovering from a typhoon that hit a week ago and left at least 22 dead.

“Within the next 12 hours, catastrophic violent winds and intense to torrential rainfall associated with the region of the eye wall and inner rain bands of the typhoon will be experienced,” the Philippine weather agency said in an urgent advisory.

It said Catanduanes and four other provinces will be first hit, including Albay, where tens of thousands of villagers have been moved to safety, especially near the active Mayon volcano, where mudflows have caused deaths during past storms. Residents have been warned of likely landslides, massive flooding, storm surges of more than 5 metres (16 ft) and ferocious wind that can blow away poor dwellings.

One of the most powerful typhoons in the world this year, Goni has evoked memories of Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013, which left more than 7,300 people dead and missing, flattened entire villages, swept ships inland and displaced more than five million in the central Philippines.

Some 347,00 people were pre-emptively moved into emergency shelters, mostly schools and government buildings. He warned of storm surges that could inundate coastal villages, including in Manila Bay.

Forecasters said the typhoon’s eye may hit or graze metropolitan Manila, the densely populated capital region of more than 13 million, late on Sunday to early on Monday and asked the public to brace for the worst. The typhoon may considerably weaken after it hits the Sierra Madre mountain range, then cross the main northern Luzon island toward the South China Sea.

Manila’s main airport was ordered shut down for 24 hours from Sunday to Monday and airlines cancelled dozens of international and domestic flights. The military and national police, along with the coastguard and firefighters, have been put on full alert.

About 1,000 Covid-19 patients were moved to hospitals and hotels from tent quarantine and treatment centres in the capital and the northern province of Bulacan, Jalad said. More emergency shelters would be opened than usual to avoid congestion that can rapidly spark infections.

The typhoon preparations will further strain government resources, which have been drained by months of coronavirus outbreaks, which prompted the government to set up isolation and treatment centres when hospitals were overwhelmed and provide aid to more than 20 million poor Filipinos.

The Philippines has reported more than 380,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases, the second-highest in south-east Asia, with 7,221 deaths.

Displaced villagers may have to stay longer in evacuation centres even after Goni passes, due to another storm brewing in the Pacific that may affect the Philippines in a few days, Jalad said.

The Philippines is hit by about 20 typhoons and storms a year. It’s also located in the so-called Pacific “Ring of Fire,” a seismically active region around the Pacific where earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are common, making the impoverished nation of more than 100 million people one of the world’s most disaster-prone.





No.43 article:
Half a million tenants in the UK battle to pay rent due to benefit cap

Families hit by Covid-19 face debt as universal credit doesn’t cover housing costs

Almost half a million low-income tenants who are claiming universal credit – many of whom were forced to apply for the benefit during the pandemic – are struggling to pay rent because it only covers the cheapest third of rents in each part of the country.

New analysis by Generation Rent suggests 474,000 tenants in the UK currently face a shortfall between their universal credit housing payments and their actual market rents, including 91,904 people in the north west of England which has particularly badly hit by coronavirus.

The typical rent for a two-bedroom flat in Manchester, which is under the most severe tier three Covid restrictions, is £850 a month but the most a family in the city can claim is £598 – a shortfall of £3,020 a year. In Birmingham, the gap is £1,795 a year for a similar-sized property while in Nottingham the gap is £1,424. 

Every region has seen substantial increases in tenants applying for universal credit since March. The number seeking help in the north west increased by just over a third in the first three months of the pandemic, with 46% of renters in the region now reliant on state support. In London, there has been a doubling of tenants claiming universal credit, with 40% of households in privately rented accommodation in the capital receiving the benefit.

The analysis indicates a further 403,000 working renters could be made redundant or see their income drop in the coming months after the end of the original furlough scheme at midnight on Saturday night and as more businesses are forced to close under public health restrictions. Many more people would then become dependent on universal credit housing payments to keep their homes.

Will Lewis applied for universal credit after he lost his job as a chef in September. Lewis – whose name has been changed because he fears his landlord’s reaction – already owes hundreds of pounds because his £1,200 universal credit housing payment does not cover the £1,460 rent for the small, two-bedroom flat he shares with his partner and two young children in Haringey, north London.

“We are about £260 a month short on rent and that’s with cutting back on our food budget and spending almost nothing on clothes,” he said. “We’ve bought the kids some school uniform and that’s it – normally coming into winter we would buy them some new winter clothes but that can’t happen this year. It makes me feel inadequate.”

Lewis is worried this could lead to the couple running up large, unmanageable debts and eventually losing their home. “Our landlord is not great – I wouldn’t be surprised if he’s already put something into the courts,” he said. “We can’t risk being evicted because we haven’t got the money for a deposit.”

He has tried to speak to his landlord and his associates numerous times, as recommended by the government, but they have refused to either drop the rent or agree a repayment plan. “There are too many people out there that just want money,” Lewis said.

Generation Rent called on the government to suspend evictions for arrears and ensure that the housing element of universal credit covers median rents in each part of the country. Alicia Kennedy, the campaign’s director, warned that the government would end up presiding over “mass impoverishment” unless it provided more assistance to tenants. “Thousands of renters started claiming universal credit at the start of the pandemic and have found that it is nowhere near enough to cover the rent they owe,” she said.

She added that the end of the government’s furlough scheme had left many worrying about how they will keep their heads above water. “More than a million employees are at risk of redundancy and a quarter of them are private renters,” she said.

A government spokesperson said: “We’ve taken unprecedented action to protect renters, including a six-month ban on evictions and have increased local housing allowance rates, benefiting more than one million households by £600 a year on average.

“We’ve also raised universal credit by £1,040 a year, and a further £180m of discretionary housing payments are available for those who need additional support.”





No.44 article:
Hong Kong: seven pro-democracy legislators arrested

The legislators were arrested over a May parliamentary hearing that saw lawmakers clash violently over control of a subcommittee

Hong Kong police have arrested seven pro-democracy legislators over a parliamentary meeting which descended into violence in May.

The arrests on Sunday of lawmakers Wu Chi Wai, Andrew Wan, Helena Wong, Kwok Wing Kin, Eddie Chu, Raymond Chan and Fernando Cheung were announced on individual and party Facebook pages.

Hong Kong police told the Guardian they had received a report from the Legislative Council secretariat on 8 May, the day of the meeting, and investigations led to the arrest of the seven people by the Public Order Event Investigations team on suspicion of contempt and interference with LegCo officers.

“All arrestees are being detained for further enquires. The operation is under way and further arrests may be made,” police said.

At the chaotic May meeting, opposing lawmakers threw placards and scrambled over each other to take control of an important house committee that had been unable to elect a new chairperson.

Pro-Beijing legislator Starry Lee took control of the committee, which had been in deadlock for weeks. The opposing camps each presented conflicting legal advice over the legality of Lee taking control and pushing through matters including controversial pieces of legislation. Security staff formed a guard protecting the chair after Lee took her seat.

In the chaos, Chu attempted to climb a wall to get past the pro-Beijing crowd surrounding Lee and reach the chair, before he and others were physically carried or dragged out by security. Chan was dragged to the ground by pro-Beijing legislator Kwok Wai Kweung.

Others were shown to be dragged or knocked down, and pro-democracy legislator, Claudia Mo, who was standing away from the melee, appeared to be hit in the head by a flying placard.

The arrests come amid a widespread crackdown on opposition and dissent in Hong Kong that has intensified since the introduction of the national security law in June, which outlawed acts considered to be secession, subversion, foreign collusion and terrorism. It has been widely criticised as overly broad and ill-defined, and in breach of international human rights laws.

At least 27 people have been arrested under the law, including three people arrested twice.





No.45 article:
New Zealand&#x27;s Labour and Greens formally sign &#x27;cooperation&#x27; deal

Ardern says agreement allows parties to ‘take their own positions’ and stops short of a coalition

Jacinda Ardern’s Labour party has signed a “cooperation” agreement with the Green party, the prime minister has said, saying she hopes the agreement will be an extra level of stability for her second term in government.

The Labour party scored a landslide victory in the 17 October poll, securing a parliamentary majority in its own right. However, Ardern spent the last fortnight negotiating with the Greens, and on Sunday signed a deal that gives the left-leaning party, which is outspoken on environmental and social justice issues, two ministries outside of cabinet.

“This agreement is unlike any other. It does not require consensus to be formed. It allows the parties to take their own positions on issues where that is important, but offers to work together in other areas too,” Ardern said.

“This cooperation agreement represents the relationship that the Labour party and the Green party have formed over the last three years and the continuation of that.

“Importantly for the government (the deal) brings stability.”

Greens co-leaders James Shaw and Marama Davidson will hold the climate change and family violence portfolios respectively, and both will sit outside of cabinet.

The Greens secured an increase to their vote in last month’s election by pledging to support Ardern’s government. The PM has earned record approval ratings as leader, and her government has won international and domestic praise for its handling of the pandemic, which has seen life return almost to normal in a matter of months.

“The Greens campaigned on working productively with Labour to get things done, especially in the area of climate change and inequality,” Davidson said.

“We are really proud of signing this agreement today.”

The decision to accept the Labour offer came down to a vote of grassroots Greens members, of whom 85% voted in favour.

Davidson and Labour deputy leader Kelvin Davis, who are both Māori, spoke in te reo Māori at the official signing.

The parties have also agreed to progress a shared policy agenda on climate change, environment, child wellbeing and “marginalised communities” issues.

In her second term, Ardern will be without a major “handbrake” encountered in her first term in office – Winston Peters’ New Zealand First party.

The agreement means that Labour and the Greens can now push forward with policies they both agreed upon but New Zealand First did not.

“It’s a new parliament and a new day,” Shaw, a long-time adversary of Peters, said.

One of those issues, implementing pill testing at festivals, could happen soon.

“That is a basic safety issue. That is about saving lives and I do think people appreciate that,” Ardern said.





No.46 article:
Macron criticises Turkey&#x27;s &#x27;imperial inclinations&#x27; as row between countries escalates

In an interview with al-Jazeera, the French president also tried to calm tensions with the Muslims world over caricatures of the prophet Muhammad

The French president Emmanuel Macron has accused Turkey of adopting a “bellicose” stance towards its NATO allies, saying tensions could ease if his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdoğan showed respect and did not tell lies.

In an interview with al-Jazeera broadcast on Saturday,Macron condemned Turkey’s behaviour in Syria, Libya and the Mediterranean and said: “Turkey has a bellicose attitude towards its NATO allies.”

He also sought to calm flaring tensions with Muslims around the world after increasingly heated rhetoric following the murder of French school teacher, Samuel Paty, who showed caricatures of the prophet Muhammad alongside other cartoons as part of a discussion on free speech.

Macron said that France’s wish was that things “calm down” but for this to happen, it was essential that the “Turkish president respects France, respects the European Union, respects its values, does not tell lies and does not utter insults”.

He noted that France had offered its condolences to Turkey following the deadly earthquake in the Aegean and had also offered to send help to the scene.

He described Turkey’s intervention in Syria as a surprise and aggression for NATO allies, and said Ankara had not respected an arms embargo in Libya while showing a “deeply aggressive” attitude in the eastern Mediterranean.

“I note that Turkey has imperial inclinations in the region and I think that these imperial inclinations are not a good thing for the stability of the region, that’s it.”

There have been weeks of tensions between France and Turkey, which reached a peak last weekend when Erdoğan questioned the mental health of Macron.

France responded by taking the highly unusual step of recalling its ambassador to Ankara for consultations. On Saturday, foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said France would send its ambassador back to Ankara after a week’s absence.

Le Drian told broadcaster RTL that Turkey made “the deliberate choice to instrumentalise” the beheading of the French teacher, accusing Ankara of launching “a hateful and slanderous campaign against us”.

However the minister said Turkey’s condemnation of a knife attack at a church in Nice this week had been “different, clear, unambiguous, but that does not preclude clarifications from Ankara”.

“We asked our ambassador to return to Ankara tomorrow to follow up this request for clarification and explanation with the Turkish authorities,” he added.

In the al-Jazeera interview, Macron said he understood that caricatures of the prophet Muhammad could be shocking, while lashing out at “lies” that the French state was behind them.

France is on edge after the republication in early September of cartoons of the prophet by the Charlie Hebdo weekly, which was followed by an attack outside its former offices, the beheading of a teacher and an attack on a church in Nice Thursday that left three dead.

Macron sparked protests across the Muslim world following the death of Paty by saying France would never renounce its laws permitting blasphemous caricatures.

But in an apparent bid to reach out to Muslims, Macron sought to strike a softer tone in a long interview with the Qatar-based channel.

“I can understand that people could be shocked by the caricatures, but I will never accept that violence can be justified,” he said.

“I understand the feelings that this arouses, I respect them. But I want you to understand the role that I have. My role is to calm things down, as I am doing here, but at the same time it is to protect these rights.”

He added: “I will always defend in my country the freedom to speak, to write, to think, to draw.”

Macron lashed out at “distortions” from political leaders over the cartoons of the prophet, saying too often people were led to believe that they were a creation of the French state.

He slammed “a confusion that has been fed by many media – and sometimes political and religious leaders – which is to say that these caricatures are in a way the project or the creation of the French government or the president”.

He also denounced calls for a boycott of French goods, backed in particular by Erdoğan and taken up by some retailers in Muslim countries, as “unworthy” and “unacceptable”.

He said the campaign was created by some private groups “who relied on lies ... sometimes from other leaders” about the caricatures.

Even before the attack on Paty, Macron had promised a tough new campaign against Islamist radicalism in France, which has claimed the lives of hundreds of people since 2015.





No.1 article:
Turkey's Covid death toll hits record for ninth day – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

European countries were on Tuesday given a clear timeframe for the start of their vaccination programmes after the EU’s medicines regulator said it would decide by 29 December whether to grant emergency approval for the first Covid-19 jabs, AFP reports.

France plans to prioritise the most fragile and exposed groups in early 2021, followed by a second campaign for the rest of the population between April and June, the president Emmanuel Macron announced.

Germany has already said it is hoping to launch its immunisation drive in the first quarter of 2021 and is preparing vaccination centres across the country.

The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said it would hold an extraordinary meeting on 29 December “at the latest” to consider emergency approval for a vaccine developed by Germany’s BioNTech and US giant Pfizer.

Hopes that shots could be ready for use by the end of this year received a boost when US firm Moderna said it was filing Monday for emergency authorisation of its vaccine in the United States and Europe.

The EMA said it would hold a separate meeting to assess that request by 12 January at the latest.

Large-scale trial data released last month showed that both vaccines were safe and around 95 percent effective against Covid-19.

European Commission spokesman Stefan de Keersmaecker told reporters that once the EMA gave regulatory permission, formal authorisation from Brussels would follow “very quickly”, probably “in a matter of days”.

Brazil will give priority to the elderly, health workers and indigenous people for vaccination against Covid-19, the health ministry said on Tuesday, unveiling a four-stage preliminary plan for national immunisation. The ministry said in a statement that a final plan would depend on the vaccines that become available.

 ESwatini’s prime minister Ambrose Dlamini, who tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago, has been transferred to a hospital in neighbouring South Africa for further treatment, the tiny absolute monarchy’s government said on Tuesday.

The country’s deputy prime minister, Themba Masuku, said in a statement Dlamini was moved to “guide and fast track his recovery”.

The southern African nation of around 1.2 million people has so far recorded 6,419 positive cases, with 122 confirmed deaths, according to the World Health Organization.

New Covid-19 infections in France stayed below 10,000 for the third day in a row on Tuesday, a sequence unseen since mid-September, and the number of people hospitalised resumed a downward trend.

The government has loosened its second national coronavirus lockdown, put in place on 30 October, by allowing all shops to reopen at the weekend.

The French president Emmanuel Macron said last week the lockdown could be lifted on 15 December if by then the number of new cases per day fell to 5,000 and the number of patients in intensive care declined to between 2,500 and 3,000.

Earlier in the day, Macron said that France should be in a position to embark on a broader Covid-19 vaccination campaign between April and June next year, after initially targeting a smaller group of people.

Health authorities reported 8,083 new cases over the past 24 hours on Tuesday, versus 4,005 on Monday and 9,784 on Sunday.

The seven-day moving average of daily new infections fell below 11,000 for the first time since 2 October, at 10,965, four times lower than the all-time high of 54,440 reached on 7 November.

The cumulative number of Covid-19 cases now totals 2,230,571, the fifth-highest in the world.

After increasing by 90 between Sunday and Monday, the number of people hospitalised for the disease fell by 619 to 27,639, below 28,000 for the first time since 4 November. The number of patients in ICUs declined by 146 to 3,605.

The number of people in France who have died from Covid-19 rose by 775 to 53,506, versus a rise of 406 on Monday. But the seven-day moving average of daily additional deaths stood at 467, below 500 for the first time in more than three weeks. 

Prime minister Boris Johnson suffers biggest Commons revolt since election as MPs back new Covid tiers by 291 to 78. Follow on the UK blog

Here’s a quick recap of all the latest coronavirus developments across the globe from the last few hours:

That’s all from me, Jessica Murray, my colleague Lucy Campbell will be taking over shortly. 

Securing a coronavirus vaccine for all European countries will be a top priority for Portugal when it takes over the presidency of the EU next January, Portuguese prime minister António Costa has said.

“We must guarantee we have a vaccine available which is effective in stopping Covid and which permits us to reach on the same day all countries of Europe,” Costa said at a news conference with the European council president, Charles Michel.

US president-elect Joe Biden said any coronavirus relief legislation passed before he takes office in January is “just a start”.

Biden said his team is working on a relief package his administration will roll out after he takes office.

A longtime museum director dubbed the grande dame of the Russian art world has died at 98, prompting an outpouring of grief and admiration for the woman who brought the Mona Lisa to Moscow and returned masterpieces hidden for decades from the Soviet public to her museum’s exhibition halls.

Irina Antonova, whose work at the Pushkin Museum began under Joseph Stalin and ended under Vladimir Putin, died on Monday evening of complications from the coronavirus. Her death was confirmed by the press service of the museum, where she served as director for 52 years from 1961 to 2013.

A Hungarian MEP in Viktor Orbán’s rightwing party, spotted fleeing along a gutter to escape police raiding a “sex party” above a Brussels bar, has apologised for breaching Belgium’s lockdown rules.

József Szájer, a senior member of the Fidesz party who helped write Hungary’s constitution in 2011, was one of about 20 people, mainly men and including at least two EU diplomats, who attended a party held near the Grand Place in the Belgian capital’s historical centre on Friday evening.

The MEP had attempted to escape the scene by climbing out of a window from the first floor apartment before being spotted by a passerby “fleeing along the gutter”, according to Sarah Durant, a spokeswoman for the Brussels region’s deputy public prosecutor.

“The man’s hands were bloody,” Durant said. “It is possible that he may have been injured while fleeing. Narcotics were found in his backpack. The man was unable to produce any identity documents. He was escorted to his place of residence, where he identified himself as SJ (1961) by means of a diplomatic passport.” It was reported he tried to claim diplomatic immunity.

In a statement, Szájer, 59, who resigned on Sunday without mentioning his brush with the law, apologised for his “irresponsible” behaviour but denied carrying drugs.

France will take measures to stop skiers from sidestepping local virus restrictions and hitting the slopes in other countries during the Christmas holidays, the president, Emmanuel Macron, has said.

Downhill skiing is effectively banned in France for the season to help contain the spread of Covid-19 after the government said last week that ski lifts would remain closed until January, even though resorts could otherwise operate.

Slopes are open in neighbouring Switzerland, tempting French winter sports lovers to cross the border from 15 December, when the current partial lockdown is lifted.

“If there are countries that keep their resorts open, there will be controls to dissuade the French,” Macron told a news conference. This was to avoid “creating a situation in which there is an imbalance with stations in France”, he said.

Switzerland – not an EU member, though it has strong ties to the bloc – has ignored calls to fall into line, much to the frustration of French officials.

“In Switzerland, we can go skiing, with protection plans in place,” Swiss health minister Alain Berset said last week.

France’s ski resorts have been up in arms over the ban, saying the weeks around Christmas and New Year are crucial for their survival since they account for up to a quarter of their annual revenues.

France’s winter sport sector says it generates some €11bn ($13bn) in revenues a year and employs 120,000 people during the season.

Queen Elizabeth II, who has spent much of the coronavirus outbreak in self-isolation because of her age, will forego her traditional family Christmas, the royal household said.

The 94-year-old monarch and her husband Prince Philip normally spend the festive season at her Sandringham estate in eastern England with other members of the family.

“Having considered all the appropriate advice, the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh have decided that this year they will spend Christmas quietly in Windsor,” the royal household said, referring to a castle west of London.

The Queen postponed public engagements and moved from her official residence in the British capital to Windsor on 19 March as the coronavirus outbreak took hold.

Britain has seen more than 59,000 deaths from nearly 1.6m cases. Prince Philip, who turned 99 on 10 June, has been in poor health in recent years and spent four nights in hospital last December for an unspecified pre-existing condition.

Their eldest son Prince Charles and his son Prince William have both isolated after showing mild Covid symptoms.

The Queen made a rare televised address to the nation in early April calling on Britons to summon the “Blitz spirit” of the second world war to get through the months-long lockdown. Her weekly meeting with the prime minister, Boris Johnson, has been conducted by telephone.

She was seen at a scaled-back, socially distanced Trooping the Colour parade in the grounds of Windsor on 13 June – the first time it has been staged at the castle since 1895.

Also at Windsor in July, she knighted Captain Tom Moore, a 100-year-old second world war veteran who raised millions of pounds for health charities in a sponsored walk of his garden.

Her first public appearance outside one of her homes – where she has a reduced household staff known as HMS Bubble – was on 16 October, when she visited the Porton Down research laboratory with grandson William.

Pakistan has approved $150m in funding to buy Covid-19 vaccines, initially to cover the most vulnerable 5% of the population, the de facto health minister said.

The initial phase of vaccinations would focus on providing free shots for frontline health workers and people above the age of 65, Faisal Sultan said, adding the go-ahead for funding the programme had been given at a cabinet meeting chaired by the prime minister, Imran Khan.

A panel of experts was compiling a list of recommendations on how to procure the vaccine, Sultan, the prime minister’s special adviser on health, said.

“We will see whether we need to tap more than one source, including some western manufacturers or some Chinese, so we will move forward with all these options,” he said.

In making a choice, consideration would be given to the vaccine’s efficacy, level of protection and safety, Sultan said, as well as “cold chain” storage requirements and Pakistan’s ability to acquire stocks.

An initial conversation has already been opened with several companies, he added.

Pakistan has launched phase III clinical trials for CanSino Biologics’ Covid-19 vaccine candidate, led by the government-run National Institute of Health (NIH) and pharmaceutical company AJM - the local representative of CanSino.

The South Asian nation of 220 million people closed schools to curb new infections and a rise in the number Covid-19 patients at hospitals in late November.

Pakistan’s government reported 67 deaths, the highest single day toll in months, and 2,458 new cases on Tuesday, with 2,165 patients in hospitals in a critical condition. Overall there have been 400,482 cases recorded in the country so far and 8,091 deaths.

Covid-19 patients who received cancer treatments that suppress their immune system may remain contagious and able to spread the coronavirus for two months or more, according to a study published on Tuesday.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) currently recommends that when patients have compromised immune systems, healthcare workers follow extra precautions such as wearing respirators instead of face masks and isolate patients for up to 20 days after symptoms appear.

In the new study, researchers analysed sputum and swab samples from 20 immunosuppressed cancer patients infected with the coronavirus. They found three were contagious for more than three weeks after their symptoms began, including one who remained contagious for 61 days.

The three patients had received either a stem-cell transplant or therapy with genetically engineered immune cells called CAR T-cells within the previous six months. Two of the three had developed severe Covid-19. None of them had antibodies to the virus.

Current public health recommendations for Covid-19 patients with weak immune systems are based on limited data and may need to be revised, the researchers said in a letter published in the New England Journal of Medicine.

“We know from several studies that if you’re ... healthy, you are no longer infectious after the first week of illness. But there is very little we know about immunocompromised patients,” said Mini Kamboj, one of the study’s authors from the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. “Is that 20 days enough or do we need to exercise precautions for longer than that?”

While only a small proportion of cancer patients with Covid-19 are likely to remain contagious for prolonged periods, “it’s a residual risk that we need to address,” Kamboj said. “We need to keep an open mind about how (much) longer immunocompromised patients could pose an infection risk to others.”

The US government has invited vaccine manufacturers, drug distributors and government officials to a Covid-19 Vaccine Summit next week, Stat News reported.

The meeting, which is scheduled for 8 December, will feature president Donald Trump, vice president Mike Pence and private sector executives, the report said.

The meeting would take place days ahead of reviews of vaccine candidates from Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech by two separate panels of outside experts to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Industry officials familiar with the plans for the summit interpreted it as an opportunity for the White House to pressure the FDA to quickly issue emergency use authorisations for the two vaccines candidates, the Stat report said.

Invitees include Pfizer, Moderna and drug distributors, pharmacies, and logistics companies including McKesson, Walgreens, CVS Health, United Parcel Service , and FedEx, the report said.





No.2 article:
Florida passes 1m Covid-19 cases amid fear of pre-Christmas surge

However the Florida governor, Republican Ron DeSantis, has vowed not to adopt any further restrictions or impose closures like those enacted in the spring and summer.

The US nationally has seen almost 13m infections from Covid-19 and the figure is increasing by around a million a week in a dangerous surge that experts warn is only going to worsen before a vaccine is ready for widespread immunization.

The US death toll is just over 270,000 in the pandemic so far, with US case and death totals by far the highest in the world.

Almost 100,000 people are hospitalised in the US from coronavirus, a record high, as states and cities scramble to implement strict new social measures following Thanksgiving and with the Christmas holidays looming.

According to Axios, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commissioner, Stephen Hahn, was summoned to the White House on Tuesday to explain why no vaccine has yet been approved.

After the meeting Hahn said federal officials would take the time needed to assess emerging vaccines, despite increasing pressure.

“No one at FDA is sitting on his or her hands. Everyone is working really hard to look at these applications and get this done,” Hahn told ABC in an interview on Instagram Live. “But we absolutely have to do this the right way.”

Hahn added that it was “possible” the agency could approve the first vaccine by mid-December if everything falls into place, but that it may take longer and was “hard to predict”.

The top public health official on the White House coronavirus taskforce, Anthony Fauci, said the US was “not in a good place” after many ignored guidance not to travel for Thanksgiving, and warned of a further surge in two to three weeks.

The number of people being treated in hospital for Covid-19 stood at 96,039 on Monday, almost double the total at the start of November, according to the Covid Tracking Project. There have been 13.5m coronavirus cases in the US and 268,045 people have died.

In an interview with the Facebook chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, Fauci said the US faced “a surge, superimposed on a surge”.

“What we have done with Thanksgiving, Mark, we’re not going to see the repercussions of that for two to three weeks now,” Fauci said. 

“Which would put it right at the time that people would be travelling for Christmas. So all things considered, we are not in a good place.”

Los Angeles county, home to 10 million, imposed a stay-at-home order on Monday, while Santa Clara, also in California, announced a quarantine for anyone who had travelled further than 150 miles away.

In Hawaii, the mayor of Hawaii county said trans-Pacific travellers arriving without a negative Covid-19 test must quarantine for 14 days, and even those who had tested negative might be randomly selected for another test upon arrival.

New Jersey is suspending all youth sports. On Sunday, California, the most populous state, became the first to record more than 100,000 cases in one week, the New York Times reported. Governor Gavin Newsom warned that hospitals could be close to full by Christmas.

“If these trends continue, California will need to take drastic action,” Newsom said in a briefing.

Nearly 37,000 Americans died of Covid-19 in November, the most in any month since the dark early days of the pandemic, engulfing families in grief, filling obituary pages of small-town newspapers and testing the capacity of morgues, funeral homes and hospitals.

Amid the resurgence, states have begun reopening field hospitals to handle an influx of patients that is pushing healthcare systems and their workers to breaking point.

Hospitals are bringing in mobile morgues. And funerals are being livestreamed or performed as drive-by affairs.

“I have no doubt that we’re going to see a climbing death toll … and that’s a horrific and tragic place to be,” said Josh Michaud, the associate director of global health policy at the Kaiser Family Foundation.

November’s toll was far lower than the 60,699 recorded in April but perilously close to the next-highest total of almost 42,000 in May, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.

Deaths dropped to just over 20,000 in June after states closed many businesses and ordered people to stay at home.

At Mercy hospital Springfield in Missouri, a mobile morgue that was acquired in 2011 after a tornado ripped through nearby Joplin and killed about 160 people has been put into use again.

At the Bellefontaine Cemetery in St Louis, burials are up by about one-third compared with last year, and the cremated remains of about 20 people are sitting in storage while their families wait for a safer time to hold memorial services.

The Minneapolis Star-Tribune had 10.5 pages of obituaries on 15 November.

In Worcester, Massachusetts, the national guard trucked in items needed to operate a 250-bed field hospital that is on standby.

Rhode Island opened two field hospitals accommodating 900 beds combined, after regular hospitals reached their coronavirus capacity on Monday.

New York City, the world hotspot earlier in the year, reopened a field hospital last week on Staten Island.

Wisconsin has a field hospital in West Allis ready to take overflow patients.

“Hospitals all around the country are worried on a day-to-day basis about their capacity,” said Amesh Adlaja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security.

Meanwhile, a scientific panel is meeting to provide guidance on who should be at the front of the line when the first vaccine shots are approved and become available in the US. Healthcare workers and nursing home residents will be top contenders.





No.3 article:
Long-term care residents should also get vaccine first, advisory board recommends, in ‘phase 1a’ of distribution plan

A government panel on Tuesday formally recommended early doses of Covid-19 vaccines be given first to healthcare workers and long-term care facility residents in the US, generally seen as people who live in nursing homes and assisted living facilities.

Together, that group would represent roughly 23 million Americans, disproportionately including women, people of color and low-wage workers who makeup the healthcare labor force.

The recommendation from the panel at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) hinges on a vaccine being approved for emergency use by the US Food and Drug Administration and later recommended by the advisory panel.

“I believe my vote reflects maximum benefit, minimum harm, promoting justice, and mitigating the health inequalities which exist in distribution of this vaccine,” said José Romero, chair of the committee, explaining his vote in favor of the recommendation.

The recommendation will likely be the basis of vaccine distribution for states and US territories, which carry out vaccination campaigns. States must complete their final requests for the leading vaccine candidate by the end of this week.

“In the time it takes us to have this meeting, 180 people will have died of Covid-19,” said Beth Bell, a member of the advisory committee on immunization practices, a US CDC group which made the formal recommendation.

More than 243,000 healthcare workers have had confirmed Covid-19 cases, and 858 have died, according to CDC data. A separate database run by the Guardian and Kaiser Health News is investigating the deaths of more than 1,400 health workers.

Further, while long-term care home residents represent less than 1% of the US population, they represent more than 40% of Covid-19 deaths.

More than 100,000 people living in care homes have died in the pandemic. The advisory panel also recommended vaccination campaigns specifically focus on nursing homes, where the most medically vulnerable live.

Advisers to the FDA will debate next week whether there is enough evidence to give emergency authorization to a vaccine developed by pharmaceutical partners Pfizer and BioNTech.

If it is approved, it would be the first Covid-19 vaccine to be distributed, the first to use a novel messenger RNA technology, and would come as the United States sees a surge of cases expected to only worsen over coming months of cold weather and holidays.

The hope of experts on the panel was that vaccinating healthcare workers – ranging from intensive care unit nurses to home health aides to ambulance drivers – would help stabilize America’s healthcare workforce at a time of enormous demand.

Together, healthcare workers and long-term care residents will represent “phase 1a” of the vaccine distribution plan.

Nancy Messonier, director of the national center for immunization and respiratory diseases, said states believe they can vaccinate workers within weeks of the vaccine’s release.

Most states, she said, “believe they can vaccinate all of their healthcare workers within three weeks”. However, she added, such high uptake is, “the hope there will be so much support for the vaccine that the workforce will be drawn together”.

The committee did not address the priority of groups following healthcare workers and long-term care home residents.

One especially large and contentious group, called “essential workers”, encompasses more than 80 million people from a range of walks of life.





No.4 article:
Police looking at &#x27;options beyond accident&#x27; in search for Esther Dingley

Partner of British hiker missing in Pyrenees says ‘prevailing opinion’ is that she is not in mountains

Authorities searching for a British woman who went missing while hiking in the Pyrenees are looking at “other options beyond a mountain accident”, her partner has said.

Esther Dingley and Dan Colegate, from Durham, had been travelling throughout Europe since 2014 and she had been expected to return from a solo trek on Wednesday.

The 37-year-old set out to hike from the Port de la Glere to the Port de Venasque, a trek which follows the border between France and Spain, according to local police, but has not been seen since.

In a Facebook post on Tuesday evening, Colegate said that the “prevailing opinion” of authorities was that Dingley was not in the mountains following extensive searches.

She is now listed as a national missing person in Spain and her case has been passed to “a specialised judicial unit in France”, Colegate added.

“For several days now there has been talk that perhaps Esther might not be up there and that this was the reason they couldn’t find her,” he wrote.

“However, with no result day after day, taking into account Esther’s high level of experience, the nature of the terrain, the good weather she would have had, the fact she had a clearly defined route for Sunday evening and Monday, and various other factors, both search coordinators have essentially told me that although they can never be 100% sure, the prevailing opinion in the search teams is that she isn’t there.

“That if she had fallen from one of the paths, they really would have expected to find her given the intensity, the closeness of the search and the fact most of the trails are really quite straightforward across open ground. As things stand tonight, Esther is now listed as a national missing persons case in Spain and the case has been passed to a specialised judicial unit in France.”

He added: “This means they will be looking at other options beyond a mountain accident.”

Colegate said he was “very grateful” for the extensive efforts of rescue teams in Spain and France, which had utilised helicopters, dogs and a drone.

“While this is a terrifying development in many ways, I’m trying to focus on the fact that it leaves the door open that Esther might still come home,” he said in the post. “She was so utterly happy and joyful when we last spoke, I’d do anything to see her face and hold her right now.”

The couple started to travel after Colegate had a serious health scare and had been documenting their camper van adventures online.

A Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office spokesman said: “Our staff are supporting the family of a British woman reported missing in the Pyrenees and are in contact with the French and Spanish authorities.” 





No.5 article:
Man arrested on suspicion of drink driving after incident in city that also left 15 injured

Five people including a nine-month old baby have been killed and 15 injured after a drunk driver ploughed his car into a crowd of people in the historic centre of the city of Trier, south-west Germany.

Witnesses said people screamed in panic and some were thrown into the air by the car as it crashed through the shopping zone.

Shortly before 2pm on Tuesday a 51-year-old man turned his silver-grey SUV on to the pedestrianised Brotstrasse shopping area, police said, where he “hit and ran over people at random”.

Public prosecutor Peter Fritzen later told reporters the driver had drunk a significant amount of alcohol and there was no sign of a religious or political motive.

In a short press conference at the scene, police said the driver had been arrested and his vehicle seized.

“The car was stopped by us on Christophstrasse,” said a police spokesperson. “Inside the car was a 51-year-old German citizen from the Trier-Saarburg administrative district, who was arrested.” News outlet Der Spiegel named the driver as “Bernd W”.

Brotstrasse and Simeonstrasse, a 1km-long, straight street lined with shops and cafes that lead up to the Porta Nigra, the largest Roman city gate north of the Alps, remained sealed off on Tuesday afternoon as police searched for evidence.

Schools in the city were informed of the incident at about 2pm local time (1300 GMT) and parents were told to pick up their children rather than let them walk home on their own.

Malu Dreyer, the premier of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate where Trier is located, said she was shocked that a baby was among those killed by the driver’s “brutal act”.

“This is a terrible day,” she said, adding that her thoughts and prayers were with the child’s parents and all the other victims.

Germany has tightened security on pedestrian zones across the country since a truck attack on a Berlin Christmas market in 2016 that killed 12 people and injured dozens.

“What happened in Trier is shocking. Our thoughts are with the relatives of the victims, with the numerous injured and with everyone who is currently on duty to care for the victims,” wrote Angela Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert on Twitter.





No.6 article:
Swedish-Iranian scientist faces &#x27;imminent risk of execution&#x27; in Iran

Ahmadreza Djalali had been sentenced to death on espionage charges

A Swedish-Iranian scientist sentenced to death in Iran on espionage charges may face execution as early as Wednesday, human rights groups and his wife have warned.

Ahmadreza Djalali was due to be taken from Evin prison to Rajai Shahr prison on Tuesday, a normal preliminary to an execution. Death sentences in Iran are often carried out on Wednesdays.

It would be one of the first executions of a dual national held in Iran, and comes only a week after Iran released the British-Australian academic Kylie Moore-Gilbert in exchange for three Iranians accused of being part of a terror plot in Thailand.

The campaign group Iran Human Rights said: “Ahmadreza Djalali is at imminent risk of execution and only a strong and urgent reaction from the international community can save his life.” 

The UN human rights rapporteur Agnés Callamard said: “The judge overseeing the arbitrary killing reportedly said the family would be granted a last-minute visit before his execution. Unconscionable. And unlawful. Human lives just pawns in international politics, tit for tat, no end in sight.”

Djalali’s wife, Vida Mehrannia, told the Guardian: “I spoke to him a week ago and what he said would happen is taking place. He will be executed at some point tomorrow, unless someone intervenes, I am not a political person, but all I can ask is that countries that have influence, maybe Austria and the US, will ask Iran to open his door and cancel his sentence. I hope the media will help me.

“I cannot tell my children what is happening these past four years or explain. How do I explain this?”

There was no official Iranian reaction to the reports, but the foreign ministry rejected suggestions earlier that it could intervene in cases of imprisoned dual nationals.

Sweden’s foreign minister, Ann Linde, said last week she had spoken to her Iranian counterpart, Javad Zarif, after reports Iran may soon carry out Djalali’s death sentence.

Djalali, a medical doctor and lecturer at the Karolinska Institute in the Swedish capital Stockholm, was arrested in Iran in 2016 and later convicted of espionage for Israel, having been accused of providing information to Israel to help it assassinate several senior nuclear scientists. His friends said he was forced into confessions.

Last month 153 Nobel laureates signed a letter addressed to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, asking for Djalali to be released.

Iran says all court procedures have been exhausted. The country’s supreme court in 2017 upheld the death sentence.

Rights activists have accused Iran of arresting a number of dual nationals to try to win concessions from other countries.

Djalali had travelled to Iran at the official invitation of the University of Tehran, but was arrested by intelligence ministry agents on 24 April 2016 and spent three months in the ministry’s detention centre.

There have been reports that Iran had been hoping to trade his reprieve for the release of the Iranian diplomat Assadollah Assadi, on trial in Belgium for allegedly taking part in a plot to explode a bomb at a rally of Iranian opposition figures in 2018. He is refusing to appear at the trial, claiming diplomatic immunity.





No.7 article:
Fifty-five Tories rebel over new coronavirus regulations as parliament votes 291 to 78 in favour

Boris Johnson suffered his worst Commons rebellion tonight as 55 Conservative MPs opposed the government’s new coronavirus tiers despite the prime minister pleading with them as they cast their votes.

Johnson was forced to rely on Labour’s abstention from the vote to avoid defeat on a tightened system of measures that will plunge 99% of England into the strictest tiers from Wednesday.

The blow to his authority came despite the prime minister making “exhortions” to MPs to back the government even during the voting. Johnson was standing in the spot in the chamber by the voting lobbies, where MPs would have expected to see the government chief whip, alongside health secretary Matt Hancock.

One MP said Tories headed “sheepishly” past him towards the No lobby. “They were literally pleading with MPs,” an observer said.

The measures passed by 291 votes to 78. Johnson was opposed by 55 of his own MPs – 53 voting against plus two tellers – while 16 did not vote or abstained. However, one of those voting against also voted for, a technical abstention. In Labour, 15 rebels voted against, as did former leader Jeremy Corbyn, who is suspended from the parliamentary party.

The new rules will come into immediate force as England emerges from a four-week lockdown. More than 40% of people will be in tier 3, meaning the closure of pubs and restaurants, while households will be banned from social mixing indoors in nearly all of the country.

It comes as the UK’s total Covid death toll passed 75,000, according to a tally of all fatalities that mention the disease on death certificates, though case numbers have fallen significantly.

The number of rebels in Tuesday’s vote fell short of predictions of up to 70 rebels, but far exceeded the 34 who voted in November against the second lockdown, and the 44 who opposed the government in a largely symbolic vote on the now-abandoned 10pm closing time for pubs and restaurants. Following the vote, a government spokesman said it would “work with MPs who have expressed concerns in recent days”.

On a difficult day for Johnson, a six-hour Commons debate was punctuated by dozens of Tory MPs complaining that the new tiers are arbitrary, poorly applied and risked losing public support for efforts to control Covid.

In response, Johnson joined a virtual call with all Tory MPs called by the chief whip, Mark Spencer, where he implored them to support the government.

With a series of MPs complaining that the county-level demarcation for tiers is too broad, Johnson also promised the approach would be “as granular as possible as we go forward”, though no imminent change is expected.

In the only other concession, the prime minister used his opening speech to announce a £1,000 one-off payment to pubs which do not serve food in the top two tiers of restrictions.

Addressing his MPs’ concerns, the prime minister said he accepted many people felt they had been unfairly put under higher-than-necessary rules, often tighter than those in place before the four-week lockdown. But, he said, the country needed to “hold our nerve” for a few more months before the likely mass deployment of vaccines.

A number of Tory MPs responded to the speech by telling Johnson they could not support his plan, including some who voted for the four-week lockdown in November.

Jeremy Wright, the former attorney general, said he was voting against the government “for the first time in 10 years on a matter of policy”.

Wright, whose Kenilworth constituency has been placed along with the rest of Warwickshire, into tier 3, where all indoor household mixing is barred and pubs and restaurants can only operate as takeaways, was among a a number of MPs to call for the restrictions to be delineated at smaller geographical levels.

The former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, who backed the second lockdown, said she had not been swayed by a government analysis of the costs and benefits of Covid restrictions, released on Monday.

She said: “I want to support my government and my prime minister in the lobby this evening, but I can’t and won’t inflict deliberate harm on my constituency unless I can see for myself that to do nothing would be worse.”

Damian Green, the Ashford MP who was Theresa May’s deputy, and also supported the lockdown, said the decision to put Kent in tier 3 had prompted “the most angry emails over a weekend since the Dominic Cummings trip to Barnard Castle”.

The tier system would not win proper public support, Green argued. “I very much hope the government will come forward with some that do reach that public assent, but these proposals, I’m afraid, don’t achieve that, so I’ll be voting against them.”

The former defence minister, Tobias Ellwood, made a similar warning: “I am worried this government might be losing that consent if it doesn’t work with the country and with parliament in a stronger way.”

Closing the debate for the government, the health secretary, Matt Hancock, took a deeply personal approach, telling MPs his step-grandfather died in November from Covid, and appearing emotional as he thanked NHS staff who cared for him. He said: “In my family, as in so many others, we’ve lost a loving husband, a father, a grandfather to this awful disease.”

Labour’s decision to abstain was derided by Johnson in his opening speech. In a cabinet meeting on Tuesday morning, the PM referred to Keir Starmer as an “invertebrate” for this choice.

But in his speech, the Labour leader said that while he recognised the need for continued restrictions, “I am far from convinced by what the prime minister has said today. In particular, the economic package is nowhere near sufficient to support the communities most affected.”

Listing previous Covid measures, Starmer said Johnson had “a record of overpromising and underdelivering” and was not being honest about what may lie ahead.

“I accept the case for restrictions. We will not stand in the way of these regulations,” he said. “But I’m not going to stand here and pretend, as the prime minister does, that this is going to be the plan that will solve it all – vote for this, and it will all be fine through to Easter. That is not going to happen, and nobody should vote on that basis today.”





No.8 article:




No.9 article:
Over 100 QCs sign petition for the Garrick Club to admit women

Female barristers say men-only club is symbolic of diversity problems within legal profession

Over 100 QCs have signed a petition calling on members of one of London’s last remaining gentlemen’s clubs, the Garrick, to vote for women to be admitted at the club’s annual general meeting next week.

The Garrick has a long association with the legal profession, and many senior lawyers are members. Female QCs who signed the petition expressed frustration that a club frequented by senior judges still refuses to accept female members.

“It is well known that The Garrick is a forum where senior members of the legal profession socialise with each other. Men are afforded an opportunity through their membership to form connections with senior legal practitioners to support their professional aspirations,” the petition states.

“This is an opportunity expressly denied to women and contributes to the gross underrepresentation of women at the top of the legal profession. We urge the Garrick’s members to consider whether they would remain members of a club that excluded based on race, religion, or sexuality.”

Several of those who signed the petition said the Garrick’s continued existence as a meeting place for senior lawyers was symbolic of wider diversity problems within the profession. The under-representation of women in senior legal positions is shifting only very slowly; just 16.2% of QCs, 28% of court judges and 38% of barristers are women.

Some QCs left messages beneath the petition describing their anger at colleagues’ membership of the club, and the unease they felt at having to attend dinners there as a guest. One senior female barrister, with 30 years experience, said that case dinners at the Garrick were “frequent”, and seemed to form part of invisible pattern of networking between male colleagues.

Another said the links between senior judges and the Garrick “have long played a part in creating a misogynistic atmosphere that makes it less likely that women will want to pursue careers to the highest level and, if they do, less likely that they will be successful. The Garrick’s insistence on all-male membership plays an important and corrosive role in confirming these gender distinctions”.

The former president of the supreme court Baroness Hale, who was the first woman among 12 supreme court judges (several of whom were then Garrick club members), criticised the club’s continued exclusion of women in 2011. “I regard it as quite shocking that so many of my colleagues belong to the Garrick, but they don’t see what all the fuss is about,” she told a law diversity forum. She said judges “should be committed to the principle of equality for all”.

Last month, Sir John Mitting, the retired high court judge chairing the public inquiry into undercover policing, which is examining the abuse of women by police spies, was criticised for his Garrick membership by a senior barrister during the inquiry’s opening session . Questioning his sensitivity to the issue of institutionalised sexism, Philippa Kaufmann said: “Your background is typical of the higher judiciary. Like many high court, supreme court, court of appeal judges, you’ve been a member of the Garrick club, which expressly excludes women from membership.”

The Garrick, which has a central place at the heart of the British establishment, has cabinet ministers such as Michael Gove, supreme court judges, academics, diplomats, senior civil servants, journalists and well-known actors and writers among its members.

Stephen Fry, Damian Lewis, Hugh Bonneville, as well as former justice secretary Ken Clarke and broadcasters Sir Trevor McDonald, Melvyn Bragg and Jeremy Paxman are members. The club, which was founded in 1831, last voted on whether to include women in 2015, when a majority of 50.5% of women voted in favour of introducing female membership, however club rules require a two-thirds majority before any change can be introduced.

The petition was initiated by Emily Bendell, the founder of a successful underwear brand, who issued a discrimination claim against the club earlier this year, arguing that its men-only membership rules are a breach of equality legislation. She has paused those proceedings, but she is continuing to campaign on the issue, ahead of the club’s AGM on 7 December , when the issue of female membership is expected to be raised.

The Garrick has been contacted for comment.





No.10 article:
Regulator expected to authorise Pfizer/BioNTech jab for emergency use within days

Britain is expected to become the first western country to authorise a coronavirus vaccine, raising the prospect of immunisations beginning weeks ahead of the rest of Europe.

The UK medicines regulator is set to license the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for emergency use within days, and possibly as soon as Wednesday. Britain has ordered 40m doses, of which 10m are expected to be available this year.

Meanwhile the European regulator suggested on Tuesday that it might not reach a decision until the end of December, which would make the start of vaccination programmes across Europe unlikely before 2021.

Such an outcome would be viewed as a political triumph for Boris Johnson. The UK could begin immunisations before any other country in the west thanks to a globally well-regarded body, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA).

With less than a month until the end of the Brexit transition period, its supporters are also likely to seize on the MHRA’s ability to act at speed and alone for the first time, without waiting for the rest of Europe.

Until 1 January 2021, licensing decisions on medicines and vaccines would have been taken by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which was based in London until Brexit. But the UK government passed regulations to allow the MHRA to give emergency authorisation to Covid vaccines if manufacturers had sufficient data to apply before the end of the year.

A Whitehall source claimed the UK would have a “head start”, saying: “The MHRA’s approval of the Pfizer vaccine, when it comes, will be a big moment not just for the UK but for the world.”

The official claimed: “From our perspective, us making provision to be able to authorise a vaccine ahead of the EMA was definitely the right call. It means we will have a three-week head start on every other country in Europe in terms of deploying this vaccine … Germany might have a better diagnostics industry than we do but when it comes to deploying vaccines we are No 1.”

The MHRA has been conducting a rolling review of several vaccines over recent months, including that of Pfizer/BioNTech, which submitted its final data on 23 November. A government source said there was an expectation the regulator would approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine within days, even as early as Wednesday. 

The MHRA is an independent body, however. Speaking in the Commons on Tuesday before a vote on new stricter tiered restrictions, Johnson sounded a note of caution about the likely speed of approval.

“We have to be realistic and we have to accept that this vaccine is not here yet, no vaccine is here yet,” the prime minister said. “And whilst all the signs are promising, and almost every scientist I have talked to agrees that the breakthrough will surely come, we do not yet have one that has gained regulatory approval. We can’t be completely sure when the moment will arrive. And until then, we cannot afford to relax, especially during the cold months of winter.”

Europe has only just begun to consider data from the final trials of the Pfizer vaccine. On Tuesday the EMA announced it had received final data from Pfizer and Moderna, the US company making a similar vaccine. Both have reported 95% efficacy in phase 3 trials.

The EMA said the assessments would be accelerated thanks to its own rolling review of the data from earlier trials and other information, with an opinion on authorisation coming potentially within weeks.

But the regulator suggested it might not be able to make a decision until the end of December. “The agency and its scientific committees will continue working on the assessment over the Christmas period,” it said in a statement. “If the data submitted are robust enough to conclude on the quality, safety and effectiveness of the vaccine, EMA’s scientific committee for human medicines will conclude its assessment during an extraordinary meeting scheduled for 29 December, at the latest.”

If the EMA gives the green light, the European commission will consider within days whether to grant conditional marketing authorisation, which would mean the vaccine is approved for use in all member states.

In the US, the Food and Drug Administration is examining all the Pfizer/BioNTech data. It has said it will meet to make a decision on 10 December.

UK plans for mass immunisation are well advanced. They will be logistically complex, however, because of the need to keep the vaccine in freezers at -70C. Once removed, it can be stored in a fridge at 2C-8C for five days.

Once transported from Belgium, where it is produced, the MHRA and Public Health England will conduct “quality assurance tests” to check transportation conditions have been followed. It will then be sent to locations including hospitals, where NHS leaders expect frontline health workers to begin receiving it. Sources estimate it will be four to six days between the vaccine’s arrival and the first doses being administered.

The UK regulator is also looking at the data from trials of the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, which has reported 62% efficacy in a large trial but 90% efficacy in a subset of volunteers under the age of 55. The UK has ordered 100m doses of the vaccine, which does not need to be kept in freezers and is intended to be the mainstay of the immunisation programme.





No.11 article:
Wakes to be banned in tier 3 hospitality venues in England

Government U-turn creates set of Covid rules stricter than during November lockdown

People mourning the death of a loved one in England will not be able to hold a wake in a hospitality venue if they are in a tier 3 area, the government has said.

Guidance published on Monday initially said that for all three tiers wakes for up to 15 people were permitted in Covid-secure venues or outdoors but not in private dwellings. However, on Tuesday the government changed that stance.

A No 10 spokesperson told journalists wakes would no longer be able to take place in hospitality venues in tier 3, or very high alert, areas, creating a set of rules stricter than have applied during the current lockdown.

“We’ve obviously been clear throughout the pandemic and the medical experts have advised that indoor gatherings where people spend a substantial amount of time in other people’s company increases the risk of spreading the virus,” the spokesperson said.

“We fully acknowledge as we have done throughout the pandemic that wakes and other such events are obviously incredibly difficult times for people. But it’s obviously important that we continue to do everything we can to reduce the transmission of the virus.”

During the latest national lockdown, venues such as community centres, places of worship, hotels, exhibition centres, cemeteries and crematoriums, have been permitted to remain open to hold wakes “where the venue manager has carried out a risk assessment and taken all reasonable measures to limit the risk of transmission of Covid-19”.

In the UK-wide lockdown in spring, community centres, hotels and exhibition centres were required to close, while places of worship were permitted to open for funerals only.

Even before the first lockdown was announced, the Church of England announced its own ban on services after funerals, such as wakes, on its premises. It has yet to reverse this ban.





No.12 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Protective equipment still needed and not everyone will be able to visit before Christmas

Hugging is to resume in England’s care homes with the rollout of rapid testing for visitors from Wednesday but care operators are warning that not all will get a visit before Christmas and protective equipment will still be essential to keep the risk of infection down.

Last week, Prof Chris Whitty, the chief medical officer, said he would not encourage anyone to hug or kiss elderly relatives, but guidance issued on Tuesday by the Department of Health and Social Care declared hugs could happen. Enough lateral flow test kits will now be sent out to more than 15,000 care homes so that up to two relatives should be able to visit twice a week by Christmas. Care homes have been told that indoor visits should be enabled regardless of tier and that visitors will be allowed to bring a wipeable gift, such as chocolates.

“If a visitor has a negative test, is wearing appropriate PPE, and following other infection control measures then it may be possible for visitors to have physical contact with their loved one, such as providing personal care, holding hands and a hug,” the guidance states. It cautions that “contact should be limited to reduce the risk of transmission which will generally be increased by very close contact”.

Visits will not be allowed in care homes with outbreaks, apart from at the end of life.

“Covid-19 is a cruel virus that has torn families apart and denied so many the simple human pleasure of contact with a loved one,” said Helen Whately, the care minister. “It is impossible to eliminate risk entirely, but now … we can help to more safely reunite families throughout December.”

The policy was welcomed by the charity Age UK as a “significant shift” in the government’s stance. But it said delivering so many tests before Christmas was ambitious and many could be disappointed. HC-One, the largest chain of private care homes, said it had received tests for 18 of its 329 homes and MHA, the largest charitable provider, has received none. The government said tests have so far gone out to the 385 biggest care homes.

Adam Purcell, who runs a small care home in Lancashire, has spent £2,500 on 100 private tests to avoid disappointment for his 16 residents if government tests do not arrive.

“Come Monday, they will be sitting up close together, holding hands and having a hug,” he said. “I am welling up thinking about it. I can’t wait.”

The new policy comes despite concerns from health chiefs in Sheffield and Liverpool over the effectiveness of the rapid tests.

Sheffield council has told care homes in its area not to use them, while Liverpool has delayed the start of its programme, the Guardian revealed on Monday. Liverpool council will insist visitors undergo two tests 24 hours apart.

Care England, which represents the largest care home providers, also warned relatives on Tuesday “it will be a while until [testing] is entrenched”. .

The rollout follows a two-week trial in 20 care homes in the south of England, including at the Meadway care home in Winchester.

callout-coronavirus

Martin Green, Care England’s chief executive, said the logistical challenge of delivering testing kits to so many homes and with individual care homes deciding that even testing will not sufficiently mitigate infection risk, it means the Christmas target is unlikely to be met.

Care homes have called for extra funding to pay for the staff to carry out the tests, cleaning and visit administration, with the National Care Forum saying the cost could exceed £30m a month nationwide. But no new cash has been offered, with care homes instead urged to apply to councils for money under the existing £1.1bn infection control fund.

Working age residents will also be able to join their families in their homes subject to an individual risk assessment, a negative test before leaving and a period of self-isolation upon return.





No.13 article:
All party’s MPs summoned to virtual meeting with PM and chief whip prior to the vote

Boris Johnson faces a potentially significant Commons revolt over his new system of coronavirus tiers after lockdown ends, with a series of Tory MPs pledging to vote against measures they said were not justified and lacked public support.

Spooked by the prospect of a mass rebellion over measures due to come into force overnight, all Conservative MPs were summoned to a virtual meeting with Johnson, and the chief whip, Mark Spencer, prior to Tuesday evening’s vote.

While some Tory backbenchers who have previously supported Covid measures said they were opposed to the system of regional tiers across England, others looked set to fall in line, limiting the scale of the revolt.

With Labour set to abstain, the government will almost inevitably win. However, it would be embarrassing for Johnson to need to rely on the Labour abstention for the new rules to pass.

Opening the seven-hour debate, Johnson said the country just needed to “hold our nerve” for a few more months before the likely mass deployment of vaccines.

The prime minister said he accepted many people felt they had been unfairly put under higher-than-necessary rules, often tighter than those in place before the four-week lockdown.

He offered no new concessions except a £1,000 one-off payment to pubs forced to close because they do not serve food, which is a requirement to sell drink-in alcohol under tier 2 rules.

“All we need to do now is to hold our nerve, until these vaccines are within our grasp, and indeed being injected into our arms,” Johnson said, in a speech peppered with hostile interventions from his own MPs.

The tiers will come into force when the current England-wide lockdown ends on Wednesday, with about 99% of the country put into the top two tiers, meaning significant restrictions on household mixing and on hospitality businesses.

There was, Johnson said, “a compelling case” to keep a tiered system of restrictions across England, insisting this did nonetheless represent a loosening of rules.

But a number of Conservative MPs responded to the speech by telling Johnson they could not support his plan, including some who voted for the four-week lockdown in November.

Jeremy Wright, the former attorney general, said he was voting against the government “for the first time in 10 years on a matter of policy”.

Wright, whose Kenilworth constituency has been placedalong with the rest of Warwickshire, into tier 3, where all indoor household mixing is barred and pubs and restaurants can only operate as takeaways, was among a series of MPs to call for the restrictions to be delineated at smaller geographical levels.

The former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, who backed the second lockdown, said she had not been swayed by a government analysis of the costs and benefits of Covid restrictions, released on Monday.

She said: “I want to support my government and my prime minister in the lobby this evening, but I can’t and won’t inflict deliberate harm on my constituency unless I can see for myself that to do nothing would be worse.”

Damian Green, the Ashford MP who was Theresa May’s deputy, and also supported the lockdown, said the decision to put Kent in tier 3 had promoted “the most angry emails over a weekend since the Dominic Cummings trip to Barnard Castle”.

The tier system would not win proper public support, Green argued. “I very much hope the government will come forward with some that do reach that public assent, but these proposals, I’m afraid, don’t achieve that, so I’ll be voting against them.”

The former defence minister Tobias Ellwood made a similar warning: “I am worried this government might be losing that consent if it doesn’t work with the country and with parliament in a stronger way.”

But one leading member of the new Covid Recovery Group of lockdown-sceptic Tory MPs said they would now support the government. Harriet Baldwin, a former foreign office minister, said she had been reassured by guarantees including a future review of the measures.

Responding for Labour, Keir Starmer said the party recognised the need for continued restrictions. The leader of the opposition added: “But I am far from convinced by what the prime minister has said today. In particular, the economic package is nowhere near sufficient to support the communities most affected.”

Listing previous Covid measures, Starmer said Johnson had “a record of overpromising and underdelivering” and was not being honest about what may lie ahead.

“I accept the case for restrictions. We will not stand in the way of these regulations,” he said.

“But I’m not going to stand here and pretend, as the prime minister does, that this is going to be the plan that will solve it all – vote for this, and it will all be fine through to Easter. That is not going to happen, and nobody should vote on that basis today.”





No.14 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Public health official puts high figure down to early testing but local MP questions hospital infection controls

There are certain places in Britain that are used to being at the top of all the wrong league tables – seaside towns with the highest rates of deprivation, former industrial powerhouses now better known for their unemployment levels than the ships they once made.

Tameside is not one of them. One of Greater Manchester’s less famous boroughs, it is home to 226,000 people who live in a collection of former industrial towns and villages on the border with Derbyshire, overlooked by the Saddleworth moors and Peak District hills.

It may come as something of a shock to them to learn that Tameside is now the Covid death capital of the UK, with proportionally more residents having died with coronavirus than anywhere else in the country.

As of Tuesday, 500 people had died with Covid on their death certificate in Tameside this year, amounting to 221 people per 100,000. Of those 500, 396 passed away in hospital, 78 in a care home, 15 at home, nine in a hospice, one in “another communal establishment”, and one elsewhere.

It is not the first time Tameside has made headlines for macabre reasons. Hyde, a local town, was home to Harold Shipman, Britain’s most prolific serial killer, a GP who killed at least 250 of his patients over 23 years. For a while until their arrest, the Moors murderers, Ian Brady and Myra Hindley, also lived in Hattersley, a Tameside suburb.

But why has this district been so hard hit by Covid? Being old is the main risk factor for coronavirus and Tameside has slightly fewer over-75s than the English average (7.71% of the population, compared with 8.49%). But life expectancy is short, with men dying two years younger than the England average (77.6 instead of 79.6) and women living to an average of 80.7 instead of 83.2.

Statistics from Public Health England show the health of people in Tameside is generally worse than average, with high levels of smoking, obesity and physical inactivity. A disproportionate number of Tamesiders die from cardiovascular disease and cancer too.

On the index of multiple deprivation – which ranks local authorities in England by various factors including health outcomes, unemployment levels and educational attainment – Tameside comes 20th out of 151. Blackpool is first, yet has seen far fewer Covid deaths: 203 as of Monday, amounting to 163 per 100,000.

However, the message from Jeanelle de Gruchy, Tameside’s director of public health, is: don’t panic. Part of the reason the area has had so many Covid deaths is because Tameside started testing earlier than almost anywhere else during the first wave.

“In Tameside we moved quickly to try and identify and support those with Covid,” she said. “The measure of deaths within 28 days of a positive test in part, reflects our high testing rates both in the hospital, in the community and other settings [for example, care homes] meaning we have identified people who contracted Covid, even where this was not the eventual cause of their death.”

Looking at the current, second wave, Tameside is no longer top of the deaths table; it is 24th.

De Gruchy said: “Infection rates are now the lowest they have been since mid-September.”

She also suggested a better measure would be the age-adjusted figures for all causes of death, which have not yet been released for recent months. That would show which areas had the highest number of excess deaths.

Still, the Labour MP Andrew Gwynne, who represents Denton and Reddish, suggested the local hospital, Tameside General, had questions to answer about how many of those who died caught Covid after being admitted.

“There is anecdotal evidence that Covid got into non-Covid wards. I don’t know how correct that is, but I am asking these questions of the trust,” Gwynne said. “These things do concern me because in terms of successful infection control, you need to keep the virus away from those who are incredibly vulnerable in hospital.”

He said he thought that in the first wave the hospital’s “ability to isolate the most vulnerable from Covid wasn’t as successful as it could have been”.

callout-coronavirus

During one week in September, a third of all Covid-19 deaths in England’s hospitals occurred in Tameside General (18 out of 52). At the time, the trust admitted it was dealing with an outbreak, but this week it said it could not confirm how many patients had caught Covid-19 in the hospital – what’s known as nosocomial infections.

A spokesman for Tameside and Glossop integrated care NHS foundation trust, said: “The latest data on nosocomial infections actually shows that the hospital is in line with the national median and better than the average for the north-west of England.

“The hospital has rigorous infection prevention control measures in place, and the public can help support this action by following the government advice around hands, face and space.”





No.15 article:
How to get Covid deniers to vaccinate

Alan Whitehouse and Anne-Louise Crocker share their views on coronavirus vaccine measures in the UK

Surely a more effective way of persuading sufficient people to be vaccinated (NHS to enlist ‘sensible’ celebrities to persuade people to take coronavirus vaccine, 29 November) is the one said to be under consideration by some airlines – namely, no vaccination certificate, no entry. If the conspiracy theorists, Covid deniers and plain selfish who want someone else to test it before they have it were presented with the choice of either being vaccinated or being denied the right to board an aircraft, train or coach, and denied access to motorway service areas, I think the uptake would be well over 90%. Alan WhitehousePenistone, South Yorkshire

• Following the news that the vaccine taskforce has already spent £670,000 on PR, I would like to know: will the celebrities and “influencers” do this for free, for the good of humanity, or will they be paid large sums out of overstretched public health funds? Anne-Louise CrockerShoreham, Kent





No.16 article:
Making a meal of Covid restrictions

Scotch eggs | Personal hygiene | New year messages | Blind dates | Rude placenames

The contortions that some people get into when trying to define a scotch egg show what limited understanding they have beyond their own metropolitan experiences (Scotch egg is definitely a substantial meal, says Michael Gove, 1 December). If your evening meal is called “dinner”, then maybe a scotch egg is just a snack, or a starter. But if, like many of us, your evening meal is your “tea”, then a scotch egg, served with baked beans and chips, is extremely fortifying and economical.Anne NealeCullercoats, Tyne and Wear

• I’m surprised Zoe Williams’ Aussie boyfriend didn’t tell her that what she calls a French wash, “where you just stand at the sink, splashing yourself” (One in four Britons don’t shower every day. And the rest aren’t doing it right, 27 November), is commonly known in Australia as a Pommy wash.Peggy SellersPickering, North Yorkshire

• A friend has just sent me a photograph of the message I wrote in his Christmas card 12 months ago: “Things can’t get any worse – can they? Onwards to a better 2020!” Any ideas for this year’s message?Les BrightExeter, Devon

• Could the prevailing failure of blind dates to hit it off (Letters, 29 November) be down to the marked discrepancy between many couples’ replies to the question: what did you talk about? Listening is an important skill if empathy is the goal.Peter LoweNewcastle upon Tyne

• Be assured that Sodom in Denbighshire is definitely thriving (Letters, 30 November).Dinah HickishTremeirchion, Denbighshire

• Surely we should allow the good citizens of Climax, North Carolina, to bring this correspondence to a mutually happy end?Richard ManganLondon





No.17 article:
Von der Leyen: Hungary and Poland should take EU budget row to court

Head of European commission says millions of citizens should not be made to suffer with funds blocked

Hungary and Poland should take the EU to court rather than make millions suffer by blocking its €1.8tn (£1.6tn) budget and recovery fund, Ursula von der Leyen has said in an 11th hour effort to resolve a row over attempts to link funds to the rule of law.

With Budapest and Warsaw refusing to sign off on the EU’s spending plans as long as respect for democratic norms remains a condition for payment, the European commission president laid down a challenge to the two governments.

In response to claims by Hungary’s premier, Viktor Orbán, and Mateusz Morawiecki, the Polish prime minister, that the proposed mechanism is not in line with the EU’s founding treaties, Von der Leyen said they should take their complaints to the European court of justice.

The terms of the rule of law condition have already been agreed by the necessary qualified majority of member states. It is only Hungary and Poland’s refusal to back the wider seven-year budget known as the multiannual financial framework (MFF) and the Next Generation EU recovery pot that is standing in the way of disbursement of the funds.

Without agreement on the whole package by 7 December – the deadline for MEPs and member states to sign off on an annual budget for 2021 – the bloc faces implementing an austerity budget for next year known as the “provisional twelfths” for the first time in three decades.

Payments for EU officials’ salaries would be paid, as would subsidies to farmers, but structural funds to the least wealthy countries would stop. The recovery fund, on which Italy and Spain are particularly reliant for the rebuilding of their economies, would not be unlocked.

Von der Leyen told regional and national parliamentarians in an online debate that citizens should not be made to suffer over the row. She said: “We think that the conditionality mechanism is appropriate. It is proportionate, and it is necessary. And it is hard to imagine that anyone could object.

“But if someone does have legal doubts, there is a very clear path, they can go to the European court of justice, this is the place where we usually thrash out differences of opinion regarding legal tests, and not at the expense of millions of Europeans who are desperately waiting for our help, because we are in the middle of a deep, deep crisis.”

After days of gruelling debate, all 27 EU leaders had agreed to including a rule of condition in the budget and recovery package in July. The details were then negotiated over three months by the European parliament and the German presidency of the EU acting on behalf of the member states.

Two weeks ago Poland and Hungary vetoed the whole package, claiming they would not accept inclusion of a sanction regime based on a “legally vague” definition of the rule of law.

Both governments have been accused of undermining the independence of their judiciaries in recent years.

The commission has been unable to effectively respond as it requires unanimity for a member state to be sanctioned under article 7 of the treaties and both governments have vowed to block any such measures.

Member states including the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark and Sweden have insisted they will not accept a watering down of the rule of law mechanism agreed with the European parliament, claiming their electorates would not tolerate Brussels turning a blind eye to corruption and authoritarian governance.

But the two rightwing governments further toughened their position on the new rule of law mechanism last week by insisting the EU would need to reopen the treaties if it wished to link the bloc’s financial interests to the rule of law.

That move only hardened the stance of some governments. According to one source, France’s most senior representative in Brussels told his peers last week: “The French republic will not bow to an illiberal democracy.”

Orbán flew to Warsaw on Monday night to hold talks with Morawiecki. After the meeting a spokesman for the Polish government said Warsaw was open to proposals. “We are convincing our partners that arbitrary criteria for judging the rule of law in certain countries can in the future lead to the collapse of the EU,” the spokesman said.

A senior diplomat from a member state opposed to changes to the mechanism said that while there was some evidence the two countries might be looking for a “ladder to climb down”, it was not up to the other 25 member states to provide solutions. “This is their problem, they should solve it,” the diplomat said. 

EU leaders will meet on 10 December at a summit likely to be dominated by the issue and Brexit.





No.18 article:
Mobile phone footage taken by terrified residents showed gunmen patrolling the streets of Criciúma as gunfire echoed across the city. After the ordeal, which lasted over two hours, the group made off, leaving hundreds of thousands of reais in banknotes littering the streets.





No.19 article:
Grim milestone comes just weeks after UK passed 60,000 deaths - showing how quickly second wave has spread

The UK’s total Covid death toll has passed 75,000, according to a tally of all fatalities that mention the disease on death certificates.

The grim milestone comes just over a month after the UK surpassed 60,000 deaths in late October, showing how the Covid death toll accelerated since September, having slowed during the summer.

The figure is higher than the government’s Covid death toll of 59,051. The latter figure only covers people who have died within 28 days of testing positive for the virus.

Covid deaths have been recorded in almost every corner of the UK, with the Isles of Scilly the only local authority area in the country not to have had a coronavirus fatality.

In the last week for which UK-wide death figures are available there were more than 2,800 deaths registered across the UK, an average of over 400 Covid deaths a day.

As of mid-November Tameside in north-west England had the highest death rate in the country at 221 deaths per 100,000.

The combined death toll recorded by the UK’s three statistical agencies – which count all deaths where Covid is mentioned on the death certificate – has now reached 71,719 deaths.

Further to that the government’s dashboard shows 3,384 people have died since the latest releases from statistical agencies, bringing the total number of Covid-related deaths to 75,103.

This latest milestone comes as 98.7% of people living in England come out of a national lockdown but enter either tier 2 or tier 3 restrictions from Tuesday.

In mid-March the government’s chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance, said that keeping the UK death toll below 20,000 would be “a good outcome”. This figure was surpassed the following month.

The government figures incorporate any deaths that have occurred within 28 days of a positive test, meaning they are able to quickly capture those deaths occurring in hospitals and care homes, both settings where testing is widespread.

The ONS, along with its counterparts in Scotland and Northern Ireland are more comprehensive, capturing all deaths where Covid is on the death certificate. About 90% of these deaths are directly due to Covid while it is a contributory factor in the remaining deaths.

The method used by the statistical agencies is closer to how Belgium has reached its official death toll since the onset of the pandemic.





No.20 article:
Russian museum director who exposed Soviets to hidden masterpieces dies at 98

Irina Antonova, head of Pushkin Museum for 52 years, brought Mona Lisa to Moscow despite cold war

A longtime museum director dubbed the grande dame of the Russian art world has died at 98, prompting an outpouring of grief and admiration for the woman who brought the Mona Lisa to Moscow and returned masterpieces hidden for decades from the Soviet public to her museum’s exhibition halls.

Irina Antonova, whose work at the Pushkin Museum began under Joseph Stalin and ended under Vladimir Putin, died on Monday evening of complications from the coronavirus. Her death was confirmed by the press service of the museum, where she served as director for 52 years from 1961 to 2013.

Antonova, who joined the museum at the end of the second world war, often prided herself on a 1974 exhibition of paintings that saw great works of cubism and impressionism long banished as products of bourgeoisie European culture rehung alongside Russia’s master impressionists.

“Opening the exhibition, I was preparing to be fired,” she said in a recent interview, describing a heated meeting with the Soviet cultural officials. “I knew that I was in danger of that. But I understood that it was impossible to keep Picasso, Matisse, Léger, Van Gogh, Gaugin in the vaults any longer.”

She was not fired and her tenure came to be referred to as the Pushkin Museum’s “golden age”, one that included must-see exhibitions of artworks taken from Dresden’s Picture Gallery after the second world war, the Treasures of Tutankhamun’s Tomb and a famous 1974 exhibition of Leonardo da Vinci’s masterpiece Mona Lisa, which was brought to Moscow under the condition that it be secured behind bulletproof glass. The exhibition was one of several sensational exchanges with European museums that she managed to negotiate despite the political tensions of the cold war.

Born in 1922, Antonova spent part of her childhood in Germany, where her father worked at the Soviet embassy until the Nazis came to power. She worked as a nurse at a Moscow hospital during the second world war, a memory that she sometimes recalled when facing criticism over artworks looted from Nazi Germany still held in the museum’s collections.

“I know that this is a painful problem for some of those in Germany who are dealing with it. But you know, during the war, I worked as a nurse; I had to remove the amputated legs of young soldiers and pilots who were shot near Moscow,” she told Germany’s Deutsche Welle news agency in 2016. While many works had been returned, she said, others “remain here as a deposit, the price paid for remembering”.

She met with Russia’s top politicians, including Leonid Brezhnev, Boris Yeltsin and Vladimir Putin. She befriended the artist Marc Chagall and pianist Sviatoslav Richter, with whom she created December nights, an international music festival held in the museum. After posing with actor Jeremy Irons on a motorcycle for the opening of an exhibition of American art, the two took a ride “to the Lenin museum and back”. She was in her mid-80s at the time.

Antonova courted controversy late into her career. In 2012, she confronted Vladimir Putin during a national call-in show to appeal for a pet project of hers: reviving the 1948 Museum of International Art, which had once held the combined collections of Sergei Shchukin and Ivan Morozov, two 19th-century merchants who had amassed famous collections of impressionist art.

Their collections, which included works by Monet, Renoir, Cézanne, Gauguin, Matisse and Picasso, were divided between the Pushkin Museum and the Hermitage after the Museum of International Art was disbanded by Stalin in 1948.

Antonova was ousted from her post in 2013 at the age of 91, but was given a ceremonial position as president of the museum and remained a fixture on the Russian art scene until her death.

“The division of the collection between the Pushkin Museum and the Hermitage is a crime that continues to this day,” she said in a recent interview, adding: “I am still fighting.”





No.21 article:
Politician in Viktor Orbán’s party apologises as Belgian police arrest 25 men over gathering 

A Hungarian MEP in Viktor Orbán’s rightwing party, spotted fleeing along a gutter to escape police raiding a “sex party” above a Brussels bar, has apologised for breaching Belgium’s lockdown rules.

József Szájer, a senior member of the Fidesz party who helped write Hungary’s constitution in 2011, was one of about 20 people, mainly men and including at least two EU diplomats, who attended a party held near the Grand Place in the Belgian capital’s historical centre on Friday evening.

The MEP had attempted to escape the scene by climbing out of a window from the first floor apartment before being spotted by a passerby “fleeing along the gutter”, according to Sarah Durant, a spokeswoman for the Brussels region’s deputy public prosecutor.

“The man’s hands were bloody,” Durant said. “It is possible that he may have been injured while fleeing. Narcotics were found in his backpack. The man was unable to produce any identity documents. He was escorted to his place of residence, where he identified himself as SJ (1961) by means of a diplomatic passport.” It was reported he tried to claim diplomatic immunity.

In a statement, Szájer, 59, who resigned on Sunday without mentioning his brush with the law, apologised for his “irresponsible” behaviour but denied carrying drugs.

He said: “A newspaper article appeared in the Belgian press today about a house party in Brussels on Friday, which I attended. After the police asked for my identity – since I did not have ID on me – I declared that I was an MEP.

“The police continued the process and finally issued an official verbal warning and transported me home.

“I did not use drugs. I offered to the police to take an instant test, but they did not do it. Police said an ecstasy pill was found. It’s not mine, I don’t know who placed it and how. I made a statement to the police about this.”

Szájer, who is married to Tünde Handó, a prominent Hungarian lawyer and judge with whom he has a daughter, asked his family to forgive him in his statement.

He wrote: “I deeply regret violating the Covid restrictions – it was irresponsible on my part. I am ready to pay the fine that occurs. With my resignation on Sunday I drew the political and personal consequences.

“I apologise to my family, to my colleagues, to my voters. I ask them to evaluate my misstep against a background of 30 years of devoted and hard work. The misstep is strictly personal. I am the one who owns responsibility for it.”

Two other people, aged about 43 and 33, claimed diplomatic immunity when discovered at the party, where many had been found wearing little or no clothes, according to local reports. A source told the DH Sports newspaper: “We interrupted a gang bang.”

Szájer has previously boasted that he personally drafted changes to the Hungarian constitution that defined marriage as being between a man and a woman. “Steve Jobs will surely be happy when he gets word that Hungary’s new constitution is being written on an iPad, actually my iPad,” he wrote in a 2011 blogpost, a year after Orbán’s government came to power.

In the intervening decade, Orbán’s government has made “family values” a centrepiece of its political programme, frequently employing anti-LGBT rhetoric.

Friday’s illegal gathering, staged on Rue des Pierres, a few yards from a police station, broke Belgium’s rules limiting indoor gatherings to four people.

Brussels is under a 10pm to 6am curfew, and all bars and restaurants have been ordered to shut until mid-January. Masks must be worn indoors and outdoors in public spaces. Individuals found to have breached the regulations face a €250 (£224) fine – less than the daily stipend given to MEPs for attending parliament.

MEPs cannot be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings because of opinions expressed or votes cast, but they do not have immunity when found committing a criminal act.

Officials from the Belgian ministry of foreign affairs were said have been called for guidance in the early hours of the morning and the mayor of Brussels, Philippe Close, was informed.

A source in the European parliament said: “There is nothing wrong to participate in a sex party of any kind. However, such kinds of meetings with many people are illegal under the coronavirus laws. The fact of being covered by parliamentary immunity does not exempt anyone from obeying the law.”

In her statement, the prosecutor’s office spokeswoman said the MEP was being investigated over possession of narcotics. “A police report was drawn up for non-compliance with measures relating to the Covid-19 pandemic for all those present,” she said. “A report was also drawn up for SJ for violation of the narcotics legislation.

“The procedure is ongoing. Criminal proceedings could only be brought after the waiver of the diplomatic or parliamentary immunity of the above-mentioned persons by the competent authorities.”





No.22 article:
Swedish police arrest woman suspected of confining son for decades

Woman, whose adult son is being treated in hospital, held on suspicion of illegal detention and grievous bodily harm

Stockholm police have arrested a woman suspected of keeping her 41-year-old son confined to their flat for almost three decades, police and local media have said.

Emma Olsson, a public prosecutor in charge of the preliminary investigation, said the 70-year-old woman, who denies any wrongdoing, was being held on suspicion of illegal detention and causing grievous bodily harm.

Her son was being treated in hospital for physical injuries he had when he was found, Olsson said, but did not specify what they were. She said he appeared to have been kept confined to the apartment for “a very long time”.

According to the Expressen newspaper, the man was found by a relative who entered the unlocked flat, in Haninge municipality about 12 miles south of the Swedish capital, on Sunday evening after hearing that the mother had herself been admitted to hospital.

The relative said she had told authorities 20 years ago that she suspected the woman was “totally controlling her son’s life”, but no official action had been taken and other family members had urged her not to cause trouble.

“But I understood he was in there and he must be afraid,” she told the paper. “I pushed the door and shouted hello. It stank of urine, dirt and dust. It smelled rotten. No one can have cleaned for many years.”

She pushed her way through piles of rubbish to the kitchen, where she found the man sitting in a corner. “I saw him in the light from a street lamp outside,” she said. “At first, I only saw his legs … They looked terrible. Everything up to the knees was just sores.”

The relative said the man could hardly stand, was missing most of his teeth, and his speech was slurred. “He spoke very fast and a little incoherently but he was not afraid of me,” she said. “I’m in shock, but I’m thankful he got help and will survive.”

The state broadcster SVT reported that the woman had lost an earlier child at a young age and given her new son the same name, subsequently becoming “over-protective”. Aftonbladet newspaper said she took the boy out of school when he was 12 or 13.

“She stole his life from him and manipulated the people around her in order to keep her secret … he has been badly let down by all of society,” the unnamed relative told Aftonbladet. 

An unidentified neighbour who lived in the same building told the paper they had not seen the man for years. “They almost never went outside, and never even opened the windows for fresh air,” she said. “The apartment was sealed.”

Another neighbour told Aftonbladet she occasionally bumped into the mother. “We talked about small things, as you do,” she said. “Sometimes I asked about the boy, and she just said he was fine. She never really talked about him.”

Many neighbours found the situation strange, she said. “But what can you do? How do you know what’s going on behind closed doors?”





No.23 article:
Limb thought to come from dead Taliban fighter as case adds to disgust over recent report detailing ADF abuse

Afghan civil society leaders have reacted with disgust to photographs of an Australian special forces soldier drinking alcohol from the prosthetic leg of a slain Taliban fighter.

Images published by the Guardian on Tuesday showed a senior soldier who is still enlisted in the Australian Defence Force drinking beer from the leg in an unofficial bar on a base in Tarin Kowt, the capital of Uruzgan province, in 2009.

Other pictures show soldiers appearing to dance with the leg, taken from a suspected Taliban fighter killed in a raid the same year, and which the squadron took with them as they were redeployed in Afghanistan, according to a former trooper.

“It is the most disgusting, shocking and horrific image I’ve ever seen,” Hayatullah Fazly, a member of the provincial council in Uruzgan, told the Guardian, speaking on the phone from his office in Tarin Kowt.

“It is more painful when you consider that [the soldiers] were here to help us and make us feel safe. It’s shameful.”

The publication of the images follows the release last week of a redacted four-year inquiry into Australian special forces’ conduct in Afghanistan that linked soldiers to the murders of 39 prisoners and civilians and cruel treatment of two other Afghans.

It also found “credible information” that 25 serving or former ADF personnel were involved in serious crimes or at least had been accessories to them. None of the alleged victims were combatants.

One alleged incident, heavily redacted in the report, is described as “possibly the most disgraceful episode in Australia’s military history”.

A special investigator’s office has been set up to prosecute the alleged crimes detailed in the report.

Zabiullah Farhang, a spokesman for the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, said the photos showed Australian soldiers “had no respect for the life of Afghans here”.

“This a true violation of international human rights and also it is a war crime. We welcome the Australian prime minister’s efforts in creating an [office] to investigate it, this will help in discovering more crimes.

“We ask the Australian government to hear and accept the demands of victims … [to help in] bringing the responsible to justice. The special committee should also facilitate a way in which the victims can directly contact them,” he said.

Patricia Gossman, the associate Asia director for Human Rights Watch, said prosecutors needed to “investigate up the chain of command” and hold senior officers criminally liable if they knew, or should have known, about the alleged crimes and failed to prevent them or punish those responsible.

“The Afghan government should speak up for the victims and demand a thorough and independent investigation of all alleged crimes, prosecutions of those responsible, and adequate and swift compensation to the Afghans harmed by these crimes,” Gossman said.

The behaviour documented in the report and the images would strengthen Taliban propaganda without a robust mechanism for accountability, said Hassan Anwari, a civil activist in the town of Balkh.

“Looking at such atrocities done under the name of international coalition forces will increase our distrust against them and raises the possibility that forces of other countries may also have done such things to our people,” he said. “It will also strengthen the Taliban in their propaganda against international forces. I strongly ask the responsible bodies to look into it.”





No.24 article:
Iranian MPs seek to harden nuclear stance after killing of scientist

Foreign ministry disavows bill passed by parliament demanding rise in uranium enrichment

The Iranian foreign ministry has been forced to disown a bill passed by the country’s parliament requiring the government to step up uranium enrichment closer to the level needed for a nuclear weapon in retaliation for the assassination of a top nuclear scientist.

The bill also included a provision requiring the government to suspend UN nuclear inspections if western powers that are still part of the 2015 nuclear accords, as well as China and Russia, do not re-establish Iran’s access to world banking and oil markets within a month.

The foreign ministry said parliament did not have the powers to direct negotiations on the future of the Iran nuclear deal, saying this was the prerogative of the supreme national security council and not elected MPs.

Saeed Khatibzadeh, Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman, said the ministry had not been consulted about the resolution, and described it as neither necessary or useful. 

The government spokesman, Ali Rabiei, told reporters: “The government believes that, under the constitution, the nuclear accord and the nuclear programme ... are under the jurisdiction of the supreme national security council ... and parliament cannot deal with this by itself.”

Parliament has often demanded a hardening of Iran’s position on the nuclear issue in recent years, without much success. The government must weigh any response to Friday’s killing of the nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh against potentially risking improved ties with the US once Joe Biden takes over as president.

In a warning shot to Iran, the director of the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Grossi, said: “It is very important to give the necessary and credible assurances to the world that there will be no deviation from the nuclear programme to military goals.”

There have been a number of conflicting accounts of the attack on Fakhrizadeh, which Iran has blamed on Israel. Israeli officials have declined to comment on the killing and no one has claimed responsibility.

Western intelligence sources voiced scepticism about a theory advanced by the secretary of Iran’s supreme national security council on Monday that Fakhrizadeh was killed solely by a remote-controlled device.

“The operation was very complex and took place using electronic devices, and no one was present at the scene,” Ali Shamkhani told Iranian media at Fakhrizadeh’s funeral.

But sources said an attack plot of such political sensitivity would require “eyes on” active surveillance – and those carrying it out would want to be sure they had achieved their goal, which would typically require a presence on the ground of some kind.

The idea of a remote plot could have advantages for Tehran, they added, because it would not require Iran to engage in a high-profile hunt for the killers in the run-up to Biden’s inauguration, even if it made the deadly plot look sophisticated as a result. That could help manage public opinion in Iran and temper pressure for an immediate response.

A close friend of Fakhrizadeh’s wife said on Monday that the couple were driving in their own car, with their bodyguards in a separate vehicle, at the time of the attack.

Shohreh Pirani, herself the widow of an assassinated nuclear scientist, said that after an explosion in a car parked by the side of the road, Fakhrizadeh opened the door and got out of his car. As he reached the car of his bodyguards, two bullets hit him in the shoulder, Pirani said. His wife – who survived the attack – was standing close to him. Pirani said after Fakhrizadeh was injured, the bodyguards threw themselves at him but he was shot four times.

A separate account published by Javad Mogoei, a documentary film-maker living in Iran, suggested 12 people were present during the attack, four of whom were on motorbikes. Mogoei said Fakhrizadeh had two escort cars but that his own vehicle was not bulletproof.

According to this account, after the initial shootings a Nissan pickup truck exploded and then Fakhrizadeh and his bodyguards were shot again, with Fakhrizadeh dying in hospital. 





No.25 article:
Russian man confesses to killing more than 25 women, investigators say

Radik Tagirov, 38, is said to have confessed to murders after being identified using DNA evidence and shoe prints

Russian investigators claim to have caught the man responsible for more than 25 murders attributed to a perpetrator known for years only as the “Volga maniac”.

Russia’s Investigative Committee said that the suspect, a 38-year-old man named Radik Tagirov, confessed to a string of 26 murders of elderly women that had terrorised central Russia between 2011 and 2012. He had been identified using DNA evidence, shoe prints, and other evidence from crime scenes, investigators said.

Tagirov had conned his way into the apartments of elderly women living alone by impersonating an electrician, plumber, or utilities worker.

Once inside, he would overpower the women and strangle his victims using either his hands or nearby objects, including an apron and a clothesline. The vast majority of his victims were older than 70.

He often robbed his victims but in some cases left valuables untouched. He wore gloves and had sterilised crime scenes before leaving to thwart investigators.

The murders, most of which took place between 2011 and 2012, were recorded in a number of Russian cities including Kazan, Samara, Tolyatti, Izhevsk, Ufa and others. Other killings were suspected to have taken place in the Urals, although the exact number of his victims has never been established.

The serial killer appeared to have gone quiet after 2013, but a killing spree in the region in 2017 renewed fears among the public.

Police in 2019 offered a £30,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.





No.26 article:
Find out what the rules are for pubs, restaurants, worship and leisure in your area

From 2 December, England leaves its second national lockdown and returns to a modified system of tiered restrictions. There are three tiers, officially graded by “risk” but in fact also reflecting such considerations as the resilience of an area’s NHS. Even the least restrictive tier 1 maintains the rule that no more than six people should gather at once. The most restrictive tier 3 requires all pubs and restaurants to remain closed.

Meanwhile, Scotland has its own five-level tier system. Wales and Northern Ireland have national restrictions in place. Use our postcode search to find out what you can and can’t do based on where you live.

The government says it considers the following five indicators in allocating local authorities to each tier: case detection rates in all age groups; case detection rates in the over-60s; the rate at which cases are rising or falling; the number of positive cases detected as a percentage of tests taken, known as positivity rate; and pressure on the NHS.

So even if a local authority has a relatively low case detection rate, it may be allocated to a higher tier if cases are high among the more vulnerable 60-plus group, or if its local hospitals are facing high occupancy – for instance if the hospitals themselves are in a worse-hit area.

The tiers are due to be reviewed every two weeks, with the first review on 16 December.





No.27 article:
Giant Arecibo radio telescope collapses in Puerto Rico

The telescope’s 900-ton receiver platform fell onto the reflector dish more than 400 feet below.

The US National Science Foundation had earlier announced that the Arecibo Observatory would be closed. An auxiliary cable snapped in August, causing a 100ft gash on the 1,000ft-wide (305m) reflector dish and damaged the receiver platform that hung above it. Then a main cable broke in early November.

The collapse stunned many scientists who had relied on what was until recently the largest radio telescope in the world.

“It’s a huge loss,” said Carmen Pantoja, an astronomer and professor at the University of Puerto Rico who used the telescope for her doctorate. “It was a chapter of my life.”

Scientists worldwide had been petitioning US officials and others to reverse the NSF’s decision to close the observatory. The NSF said at the time that it intended to eventually reopen the visitor center and restore operations at the observatory’s remaining assets, including its two Lidar facilities used for upper atmospheric and ionospheric research, including analyzing cloud cover and precipitation data.

The telescope was built in the 1960s with money from the US defense department amid a push to develop anti-ballistic missile defenses. It had endured hurricanes, tropical humidity and a recent string of earthquakes in its 57 years of operation.

The telescope has been used to track asteroids on a path to Earth, conduct research that led to a Nobel prize and determine if a planet is potentially habitable. It also served as a training ground for graduate students and drew about 90,000 visitors a year.

“I am one of those students who visited it when young and got inspired,” said Abel Mendez, a physics and astrobiology professor at the University of Puerto Rico at Arecibo who has used the telescope for research. “The world without the observatory loses, but Puerto Rico loses even more.”

He last used the telescope on 6 August, just days before a socket holding the auxiliary cable that snapped failed in what experts believe could be a manufacturing error. The National Science Foundation, which owns the observatory that is managed by the University of Central Florida, said crews who evaluated the structure after the first incident determined that the remaining cables could handle the additional weight.

But on 6 November another cable broke.

A spokesman for the observatory said there would be no immediate comment, and a spokeswoman for the University of Central Florida did not return requests for comment.

Scientists had used the telescope to study pulsars to detect gravitational waves as well as search for neutral hydrogen, which can reveal how certain cosmic structures are formed. About 250 scientists worldwide had been using the observatory when it closed in August, including Mendez, who was studying stars to detect habitable planets.

“I’m trying to recover,” he said. “I am still very much affected.”





No.28 article:
Dozens engage in gun battle, torch vehicles, kidnap workers and blow up bank in Criciúma

Bank robbers armed with military-grade weapons have laid siege to a city in southern Brazil, torching vehicles, kidnapping government workers, blowing up a bank and engaging in a two-hour gun battle as the mayor begged residents to stay indoors.

Clésio Salvaro, the mayor of Criciúma, told local media he first learned of the “surreal” offensive on social media just after midnight on Tuesday.

Minutes earlier, a convoy of luxury vehicles including Audis, Land Rovers and BMWs had cruised into town carrying a platoon of masked raiders whose armoury included 50-calibre rifles capable of downing helicopters.

As dozens of apparently highly trained gunmen swept through the city and shots rang out, Salvaro published a video plea to the city’s 220,000 residents.

“At this moment the city remains under siege. This is an attack of large proportions, [involving] very well-trained criminals,” he said. “So, right now, the mayor of Criciúma is asking you to remain in your homes – do not go out. Be careful and shelter in your home ... Tell your relatives and friends that nobody must leave their homes. Let’s let the police do their job.”

Geovânia de Sá, a local congresswoman, said “a situation of war” was unfolding in the city and one journalist compared the strike to a western film. The news website G1 called the attack “a dawn of terror”.

Mobile phone videos shot by panicked residents offered a glimpse of the mayhem. In one, a female narrator sobs as she films armed men moving through the streets and shots echoing in the darkness. “For the love of God,” she can be heard saying.

Mauricio Vefago, a local businessman, told the Band TV network he had locked himself inside his shop when the shooting began at about midnight. “It was practically the whole city. The sound of gunfire was coming from all sides,” he said.

Speaking to the GloboNews television network, Salvaro said that after driving into town the criminals had “completely besieged” the city centre, blocking all entry points, including a tunnel linking Criciúma with a neighbouring city. Six city hall workers who had been painting zebra crossings at the time of the action were briefly held hostage. Spike strips were reportedly used to hinder the police response.

The gang’s targets appeared to be local banks, at least one of which was reportedly blown up with explosives.

About two and a half hours after the assault began, the criminals disappeared into the night, driving south in a 10-vehicle convoy. During their escape large sums of money were left behind, with one social media video showing locals scrambling to collect the notes on the ground. The G1 website said four locals were arrested after being seen making off with 810,000 reais (£114,000) that had been abandoned when the criminals fled.

Victor Bianco Cruz, a police chief in Criciúma, which is about 125 miles (200km) south of the city of Florianópolis, told Brazilian television at least 30 people had been involved in the robbery. “We’ve never seen anything like it. So much shooting. A very well-organised gang with heavy weapons.”

The Folha de São Paulo newspaper said such attacks were increasingly common in other parts of Brazil, pointing to similarly spectacular assaults in the interior of São Paulo state in cities such as Araraquara, Botucatu and Ourinhos.

Some call such raids a 21st-century version of the cangaço – gangs of Robin Hood-style bandits who roamed Brazil’s north-eastern hinterlands in the early part of the last century under the leadership of a legendary highwayman called Lampião.

The “new cangaço” is thought to be largely the work of Brazil’s most powerful organised crime group, the Primeiro Comando da Capital (First Command of the Capital).





No.29 article:
French inquiry begins into alleged assault on photographer by police

Officer allegedly hit Ameer al-Halbi in the face while he was covering Paris protest against security law

French investigators have opened an internal inquiry into how a Syrian photographer covering a demonstration in Paris was seriously injured, amid a heated national debate over police violence.

Ameer al-Halbi was pictured with blood pouring from his bandaged head on Saturday after a police officer allegedly hit the journalist in the face with a truncheon.

Halbi, 24, was covering a protest against the controversial global security law in the city on Saturday, which passed off peacefully before clashes between police and casseurs, black-clad young people who torched cars, a brasserie and smashed shop windows.

French authorities have confirmed the Inspection Générale de la Police Nationale (IGPN) – known as the police of the police – have been asked to look into how the photographer from Aleppo, who has been living in France for three years, was injured.

Reporters Sans Frontières (RSF) and the news agency AFP, for whom he often worked, condemned the alleged attack and demanded an inquiry. Representatives of the national journalists’ union SNJ-SGT said police and the interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, should apologise.

François Pallud, who was at the protest with Halbi, told Le Monde: “He was in the street with other photojournalists. To avoid getting in the way of the police charge they were flattened against the wall … shouting ‘press, press’. During the charge a CRS [riot police officer] broke rank very briefly and hit him in the face with a truncheon. It wasn’t what you’d call a beating, it lasted only about a second.”

Pallud suggested police targeted Halbi because he was spotted photographing a demonstrator being hit by a police officer. Christophe Deloire, RSF’s secretary general, wrote on Twitter: “Ameer came to France from Syria for safety, like several other Syrian journalists. The country of human rights shouldn’t be threatening him but protecting him.”

Halbi, a prize-winning photographer, said he was not wearing any protective clothing or equipment because police had confiscated it while he was covering the gilets jaunes protests in 2018. He also said he did not have a press card. 

The investigation is the latest in a series to focus on allegations of police violence, including cases involving officers being filmed beating a music producer, tripping up a migrant and targeting a journalist.

During the gilets jaunes protests that started in 2018 and continued until the first Covid-19 lockdown in March this year, police used rubber bullets known as LBD against protesters, causing serious injuries, including blindness and loss of limbs. Official figures suggest 2,495 protesters and 1,944 police, gendarmes and firefighters were injured in 16 months of almost weekly demonstrations.

The investigative website Mediapart also published a video from April 2019 showing eight plainclothed police in unmarked vehicles surrounding a car near the Bois de Boulogne and shooting inside, narrowly missing the driver.

RSF has lodged a legal complaint against the Paris police chief, Didier Lallement, over police allegedly targeting journalists during an operation to dismantle a refugee camp last week. 

On Monday, the French government announced in a U-turn that it would completely rewrite the contested article 24 of the global security law, which gives police new powers. Officials said the legislation, which has already been passed by the Assemblée Nationale, has been wrongly perceived as a threat to press freedom.

After an unscheduled meeting with the president, Emmanuel Macron, the hardline Darmanin – a vocal supporter of the law including article 24 – told a parliamentary commission the violent acts were those of “individuals”, not the entire force, and denied there was a culture of violence among forces of law and order. He admitted several “fundamental mistakes”, including failing in police training and a lack of equipment, but denied there was a “divorce between the police and the population”.

He added article 24 was aimed at guaranteeing police safety after a number of attacks on officers. “The protection of police and the protection of the freedom of press are not in competition,” Darmanin said.





No.30 article:
Country has faced calls from European neighbours over spread of virus at its resorts

Austria’s government appears to have bowed to pressure from Germany, France and Italy and will ban skiing holidays over the Christmas break in an attempt to control the coronavirus pandemic, Austrian media is reporting.

The decision, expected to be officially announced on Wednesday, follows heated disagreements between Berlin and Vienna.

On Tuesday morning, Austria’s tourist minister accused the German government of interfering in its domestic affairs after Angela Merkel said she had wanted a ban on skiing holidays. The chancellor secured the backing of the Italian and French governments as well as the leaders of the 16 German states.

According to initial reports, Austrian resorts, including hotels, restaurants and ski schools will be closed into January. In some resorts, ski lifts are expected to stay open but tourists will be told to stay away.

Merkel said last week she would seek an alliance within Europe to support her efforts for ski resorts to close until the new year at least, amid fears of a repeat of events last winter when Austrian resorts in particular proved to be a breeding ground for the virus.

She admitted that strong resistance from Austria meant it would be hard to find an “easy solution”.

Elisabeth Köstinger, Austria’s tourism minister, had said in an interview with Bavarian broadcasting that her country had no intention of abiding by any restrictions.

“We will not let another country stipulate when and what we will open,” she said, “just as we would also never offer the suggestion to Germany that it has to, for example, close its schools or hairdressers”.

Köstinger said people had “had an extremely demanding year” and were desperate to “get out of the cities, to relax and enjoy sport” after months of lockdown restrictions. Skiing “should not be turned into a scapegoat” for the virus’s spread, she added.

Switzerland has also been against the closure of resorts, like Austria fearing significant economic harm.

An independent commission found in October that Austrian national and local authorities had made “momentous miscalculations” over their handling of the outbreak last March, leading to possibly tens of thousands of tourists catching the virus and taking it back to their home countries.

Ischgl in the Tirol was highlighted as the biggest hotspot, and identified as the “ground zero” of the first wave of the virus in Europe.

On Monday, the Austrian ski association (ÖSV) wrote an open letter to the government urging it not to give in to mounting pressure from Germany to delay the season’s start.

“With growing concern we are registering an international campaign against winter sport, which is being led by leading political decision-makers in neighbouring lands,” the association’s president, Peter Schröcksnadel, wrote.

He said winter tourism was being “demonised” to cover up for wider political mistakes over the management of the crisis, insisting that the argument for a ban was “not evidence-based” and that skiing was being wrongly equated with “party tourism and unbridled aprés ski”. He urged the Austrian government “not to bow to pressure from Berlin, Munich, Rome and Paris”.

Franco Locatelli, the president of the Italian health council, told the newspaper La Stampa that if ski resorts were to operate, those who visited should be obliged to “isolate on their return for the sake of the general public”.

Italy’s government is due to decide on Tuesday on restrictions at its ski resorts. They are expected to close, after the prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, last week pleaded with Italian skiers to stay at home and urged Europe to agree on a joint approach.

“If Italy closes its lifts without support from France, Austria and others, Italians could go abroad and bring the disease back,” he said.

The foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio, said last week that closing resorts was an effective and obvious way to reduce mass gatherings and to save lives.

“Those who cannot ski are not victims,” he told the TV station Rete 4. “This discussion about winter holidays is surreal. We need to make sacrifices in order to conquer this virus.”

A survey in Germany showed that the majority of citizens were in favour of closing European ski resorts. Almost 74% of those questioned by the polling institute Civey said it was either “obvious” or “preferable” to close the resorts to control the virus’s spread.





No.31 article:
Gove also told Sky News that customers would not need to be vaccinated against Covid-19 to go to pubs, restaurants, theatres or sports events





No.32 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Minister performs U-turn on whether delicacy constitutes a main meal or just a starter

A scotch egg is definitely a substantial meal, Michael Gove has said, as he performed a screeching U-turn on his earlier controversial position that it constituted merely a starter.

Asked about the status of the delicacy a day after his cabinet colleague George Eustice told LBC on Tuesday that a scotch egg “would count as a substantial meal if there were table service” and could therefore be served with alcohol by pubs in tier 2 areas after lockdown ends, the Cabinet Office minister told the radio station: “A couple of scotch eggs is a starter, as far as I’m concerned.”

Forty-five minutes later, he said on ITV’s Good Morning Britain: “As far as I’m concerned it’s probably a starter … My own preference when it comes to a substantial meal might be more than just a scotch egg but that’s because I’m a hearty trencherman. The government is relying on people’s common sense.”

However, by the time he was interviewed by ITV News shortly afterwards, his position had evolved. He said: “A scotch egg is a substantial meal. I myself would definitely scoff a couple of Scotch eggs if I had the chance, but I do recognise that it is a substantial meal.”

Gove, the chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, said the concept of the substantial meal had existed in law for many years, allowing families to buy 16-year-olds an alcoholic drink with food, but he could not say what it constituted.

“They [pubs] already do know what the rules are and they have for years now,” he said.

With businesses facing fines of £10,000 or even closure if they fail to comply with coronavirus regulations, the government has been under pressure to set out exactly what constitutes a proper meal.

In October, the housing secretary, Robert Jenrick, said a Cornish pasty counted as a meal only if it came with sides, while police in Manchester found themselves at the centre of the confusion when they stopped a pizzeria from serving single slices, only to back down after the restaurant pointed out that they were “fucking massive”.

Speaking after Eustice’s intervention on Monday, Boris Johnson’s spokesman attempted to draw a line under the affair by arguing that the principle was “well-established in the hospitality industry” and declined to categorise sausage rolls, sandwiches and pork pies.

callout-coronavirus

In legislation published in October, pubs were told that they could only serve alcohol with a “table meal” that “might be expected to be served as the main midday or main evening meal, or as a main course at either such meal”.

A “table meal” was defined as a meal eaten by “a person seated at a table, or at a counter or other structure which serves the purposes of a table and is not used for the service of refreshments for consumption by persons not seated at a table or structure serving the purposes of a table.”





No.1 article:
Iran death toll hits daily record of 434 – as it happened

 This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

The former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson appears to have been arrested for breaking coronavirus restrictions during a heated rally in London, PA media reports. 

Images on social media showed him being led away by police officers. The 37-year-old, whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, co-founded the far-right EDL in 2009.

The Metropolitan police said they arrested a man who was at a rally at Speakers’ Corner in Hyde Park, London, on Sunday.

A spokesman said: “At 14.44hrs a man aged in his 30s was arrested under the coronavirus regulations for holding or being involved in the holding of the event: 

More than 300 Brazilians gathered on São Paulo’s main commercial thoroughfare on Sunday to protest state governor João Doria’s support for mandatory Covid-19 immunisation and testing the potential vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac, Reuters reports.

Doria has previously spoken in favour of making immunisations mandatory, once vaccines are available, sparking a spat with President Jair Bolsonaro who vows it will be voluntary. The Supreme Court’s chief justice has said the court will ultimately decide on the issue.

A number of vaccines are obligatory in Brazil, including for example Hepatitis B which is given to newborns. Brazil has had great success with large vaccination campaigns in the past, eradicating polio in the 1980s for example.

In São Paulo, the Sinovac vaccine is being tested as part of phase III clinical trials with support from the Doria government.

Brazil’s federal health ministry announced last month it would buy 46 million doses of the vaccine, contingent on regulatory approval, in a deal supported by state governors. But a day later right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro said that Brazil would not buy the vaccine.

Bolsonaro has bashed China intermittently since the campaign trail in 2018, over the country’s growing investments and influence in Brazil.

Nigel Farage plans to rebrand the Brexit Party as an anti-lockdown party called Reform UK, the party leader has announced in an article in the Telegraph where he says “it is time to redirect our energies”.

The plans to change the name are subject to approval of the Electoral Commission. 

None of the party’s candidates won a seat in the 2019 general election.

A ban on care home visits in England’s winter lockdown would violate the “fundamental human rights” of residents and their families, the National Care Forum (NCF) has warned health secretary Matt Hancock in a letter.

In a letter signed by 60 organisations, NCF leaders have urged the health secretary, along with social care secretary Helen Whately, to allow limited numbers of relatives to visit care homes.

Government guidelines currently tell care homes to “follow existing guidance” with more to come ahead of the lockdown, which will be introduced from Thursday.

Speaking at a press conference in October, Boris Johnson acknowledged the situation is “absolutely wretched” for people unable to see loved ones in care homes, adding he was “certainly looking at what we can do to... allow people to visit their elderly relatives in extreme circumstances”.

Vic Rayner, executive director of the NCF, said said: “We must balance the risk of harm from Covid-19 with the risk of harm from isolation and physical, mental, and emotional deterioration (for residents).”

Brazil recorded 10,100 additional confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and 190 deaths from Covid-19, the health ministry said on Sunday.

Brazil has registered more than 5.5 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 160,074, according to ministry data.

Just a reminder that you can get in touch with any news tips or suggestions for coverage by email or Twitter DM – thanks to everyone who’s already written in.

Scott Atlas, a top coronavirus adviser to the White House, has apologised for giving an interview to Russia’s Kremlin-backed television station RT, saying he was unaware the outlet was a registered foreign agent in the United States.Atlas, a neuroradiologist and member of the White House coronavirus task force, appeared on the channel on Saturday and criticised coronavirus lockdowns measures, calling them an “epic failure” at stopping the virus’ spread.“I recently did an interview with RT and was unaware they are a registered foreign agent,” Atlas tweeted. “I regret doing the interview and apologize for allowing myself to be taken advantage of.“I especially apologize to the national security community who is working hard to defend us,” Atlas said.RT registered as a foreign agent three years ago.

Education unions, backed by northern leaders, have warned that keeping schools and universities open in England is an inadequate “half-measure” which will sow the seeds for another lockdown next year and prolong the suffering from Covid.

The National Education Union (NEU), the biggest teaching union in the UK with almost half a million members, says schools are “an engine for virus transmission” and wants them to close again to all except “vulnerable” pupils and those with key-worker parents, to drive down transmission.

Read education correspondent Sally Weale’s report here.

Another Tory MP has warned she will vote against England’s new lockdown measures.

In a post on Instagram, Esther McVey wrote: “I will be voting against the new national lockdown on Wednesday when it comes before the House of Commons.

“The ‘lockdown cure’ is causing more harm than Covid.

“The world cannot be put on hold, and the Government must stop pressing the pause and stop button for the whole nation on a whim, with all the disastrous effects this brings to our lives, livelihoods, health and relationships.”





No.2 article:
Routine operations will be cancelled despite England lockdown, doctors say

More than 100,000 NHS vacancies expected to make Nightingale hospitals hard to staff

Hospitals will be forced to cancel routine operations across England due to pressures from resurgent Covid despite the new lockdown measures, doctors’ leaders have warned.

The NHS is facing potentially “impossible” demands in the months ahead and hospitals everywhere would soon have to follow the lead of those in the north of England and Midlands by cancelling non-essential surgery, against the wishes of NHS bosses and ministers.

Doctors’ leaders also said the new lockdown in England was necessary and inevitable but warned that tens of thousands of NHS vacancies across the service would make the Nightingale field hospitals hard to staff during a surge of Covid patients. 

“Things are going to get worse in the NHS before they get better, even with the lockdown, because it takes time for people who have been infected to get sick and come to hospital. So the impact on changes to transmission rates from the lockdown will take a while to show up,” said Dr Tom Dolphin, a consultant anaesthetist and member of the British Medical Association’s council.

Dr Claudia Paoloni, president of the Hospital Consultants and Specialists Association, said: “It’s difficult to predict if this [lockdown] will be sufficient, being implemented so late and missing the opportunity of half-term school closures, especially as it is a modified and not full lockdown, with schools, universities and manufacturing kept open.

“Although this can certainly reduce the infection rate, if adhered to fully, whether it can get the R rate [the average number of people each case infects] below 1 and keep NHS capacity to a manageable level will need close monitoring.”

Hospitals will find it hard to treat both Covid patients and those with other illnesses unless the public strictly follow the new rules from Thursday, warned Dr Alison Pittard, the dean of the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine. “The NHS won’t collapse but patients with non-Covid illnesses will suffer if we don’t control transmission and more people will die,” she said.

“Intensive care units have seen a steady increase in the number of Covid cases. Staff are back in full PPE, working in surge capacity, non-ICU staff are helping out. Routine operations are being cancelled in order to accommodate Covid patients. It all feels like deja vu but with the added burden of trying to maintain as much non-Covid activity as possible.”

NHS England and Boris Johnson want normal NHS care, especially surgery, to continue during the second wave, unlike in the spring, when it was mostly suspended. But Dr Sue Crossland, president of the Society for Acute Medicine, said that was unlikely to prove possible and that the needs of people needing life or death care because of Covid must take priority.

“A second lockdown was inevitable given the exponential rise in cases. We are now at a point where we have to minimise the risk between caring for Covid patients and ensuring that other patients waiting for treatment are also cared for in a timely fashion. It is difficult, if not impossible, to square this circle,” she said.

“The difficult decisions being advised by the scientific evidence and Sage are not easy, but we need to ensure we protect the vulnerable and keep the NHS working for those who need it most.”

The BMA’s Dolphin agreed. “You can’t turn Covid patients who are septic and breathless and unwell away at the front door. You’ve got to admit them. [But] then you’ve got no beds to admit people in for other conditions,” he said.

Senior doctors are divided over what role the seven Nightingale field hospitals might play this time. The first to open, in London, was the only one to care for patients in the spring.

Paoloni said: “The NHS has one of the lowest hospital bed bases in Europe. There are 246 beds per 100,000 population in the UK compared to 800 per 100,000 in Germany. [Given that] I suspect the Nightingales will have to be used, but staffing levels will restrict what they can be used for.” Nightingales in Manchester, Harrogate and Sunderland have been put on standby.

Dolphin cautioned that the more than 100,000 vacancies in the NHS makes staffing the field hospitals difficult. “A lot of people are saying ‘the Nightingales will save us’. But I’m not convinced they’re necessarily going to be the answer to everything. They are physically there and have beds and equipment you need, like ventilators. But who is going to staff them? There aren’t any extra doctors or nurses sitting out there doing nothing, waiting to be called up to the Nightingales.”





No.3 article:
“We’re in for a whole lot of hurt,” Fauci told the Washington Post in a hard-hitting interview published on Saturday night, three days out from election day, immediately angering the Trump White House.

“It’s not a good situation. All the stars are aligned in the wrong place as you go into the fall and winter season, with people congregating at home indoors. You could not possibly be positioned more poorly.”

More than 9.1m cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in the US and more than 230,000 people have died. Daily case counts vary but agree that on Friday the US set a world record for cases in a single day, between 99,000 and 100,000, as numbers surge in several states, many of them electoral battlegrounds key to control of the White House. On Saturday, Johns Hopkins University reported more than 81,000 new cases. There were 862 deaths, down from more than 1,000 the day before.

Donald Trump, recently recovered from the virus himself, continues to campaign for re-election, staging rallies at which mitigation strategies such as mask-wearing and social distancing are not observed and regularly claiming the US is “rounding the corner”. On Friday he made the baseless claim that doctors are rewarded financially if people die of Covid.

His challenger, Joe Biden, who leads most national and battleground state polls, is staging fewer events and observing Covid protocols.

Trump has charged that Biden is “hiding” and regularly mocked his opponent for wearing a mask. On Sunday, campaign adviser Anita Dunn told CNN’s State of the Union that since March, “what Vice-President Biden has done is basically why he’s got in this race, he showed people what a responsible president does and how a responsible president acts.”

Fauci told the Post that Biden was “taking it seriously from a public health perspective”. Trump, he said, was “looking at it from a different perspective … the economy and reopening the country.”

Judd Deere, a White House spokesman, told the Post that Trump “always put the well-being of the American people first”, and added: “It’s unacceptable and breaking with all norms for Dr Fauci, a senior member of the president’s coronavirus taskforce and someone who has praised President Trump’s actions throughout this pandemic, to choose three days before an election to play politics.”

In fact Fauci has often clashed with Trump, and recently complained about comments being used out of context in a campaign commercial.

Fauci, 79, has been director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984, serving six presidents. He is immensely popular with the public and largely seen as safe from being fired. But the Post also reported that “at one point during the interview, Fauci said he needed to be careful with his words because he would be blocked from doing appearances in the future”.

Deere said that “as a member of the Task Force, Dr Fauci has a duty to express concerns or push for a change in strategy, but he’s not done that, instead choosing to criticise the president in the media and make his political leanings known by praising the president’s opponent – exactly what the American people have come to expect from the Swamp.”

Public records show Fauci is not registered as a Democrat or a Republican.

“The Swamp” is Trump campaign speak for Washington, supposedly a den of “deep state” bureaucrats and intelligence officials dedicated to thwarting the president and feathering their own nests. Trump’s former campaign manager, Steve Bannon, a key propagator of the deep state theory now indicted for fraud, has said it is “for nut cases”.

Speaking to the Post, Fauci was critical of a controversial outsider brought into the coronavirus taskforce by Trump. Scott Atlas, a Stanford neuroradiologist and Fox News contributor, favours ending public health restrictions and pursuing “herd immunity”.

“I have real problems with that guy,” Fauci said. “He’s a smart guy who’s talking about things that I believe he doesn’t have any real insight or knowledge or experience in. He keeps talking about things that when you dissect it out and parse it out, it doesn’t make any sense.”

On Saturday, Atlas promoted an interview with RT – a Kremlin-controlled TV channel which spreads disinformation. “Lockdowns, facts, frauds,” he tweeted. “If you can’t handle truth, use a mask to cover your eyes and ears.” On Sunday he apologised for the interview, saying he was unaware RT was “a registered foreign agent”.

Fauci also said: “Right now, the public health aspect of the [White House] taskforce has diminished greatly … the last time I spoke to the president was not about any policy. It was when he was recovering in Walter Reed, he called me up.”

Fauci said he called into meetings but largely avoided the White House because “of all the infections there”. After an event for supreme court nominee Amy Coney Barrett on 26 September, cases proliferated among the Trump family, senior aides and top Republicans. Last weekend, senior aides to Vice-President Mike Pence were infected.

Fauci also addressed controversial remarks last weekend by White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who said the administration was not going to control the pandemic.

“I tip my hat to him for admitting the strategy,” he said. “He is straightforward in telling you what’s on his mind. I commend him for that.”





No.4 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

From announcing the first national lockdown in March to PMQs at the end of October

Boris Johnson announced a second national lockdown for England on Saturday evening. Here is what he has previously said about lockdown.

On 19 March, four days before the first national lockdown was announced:

I think, looking at it all, that we can turn the tide within the next 12 weeks and I’m absolutely confident that we can send coronavirus packing in this country. 

On 23 March, announcing the first full lockdown:

I can assure you that we will keep these restrictions under constant review. We will look again in three weeks, and relax them if the evidence shows we are able to. 

On 10 May, announcing the easing of the first lockdown

It is thanks to your effort and sacrifice in stopping the spread of this disease that the death rate is coming down … It would be madness now to throw away that achievement by allowing a second spike. 

On 17 July at a press conference:

It is my strong and sincere hope that we will be able to review the outstanding restrictions and allow a more significant return to normality from November at the earliest. 

In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph published on 19 July:

I can’t abandon that tool [a second lockdown] any more than I would abandon a nuclear deterrent. But it is like a nuclear deterrent, I certainly don’t want to use it. And nor do I think we will be in that position again. 

In a TV address to the nation on 22 September, announcing early closing for pubs:

If we were forced into a new national lockdown, that would threaten not just jobs and livelihoods but the loving human contact on which we all depend … We must do all we can to avoid going down that road again. 

In a statement to MPs on 12 October, announcing the three-tier alert system:

This is not how we want to live our lives, but this is the narrow path we have to tread between the social and economic trauma of a full lockdown and the massive human and, indeed, economic cost of an uncontained epidemic.

callout-coronavirus

At PMQs on 14 October:

We know that it is regionally distributed, rather than nationally distributed, at the moment, and that gives us a chance to do the right thing. [Keir Starmer] wants to close pubs. He wants to close bars. He wants to close businesses in areas across the country where the incidence is low … Let us try to avoid the misery of another national lockdown, which he would want to impose, as I say, in a headlong way.

At PMQs on 21 October:

It is the height of absurdity that [Keir Starmer] stands up and attacks the economic consequences of the measures we are obliged to take across some parts of the country when he wants to turn the lights out with a full national lockdown. 





No.5 article:
Opposition of Sunak melted away during quad meeting and PM sided with Gove and Hancock

Morgues in converted ice rinks, security guards outside overwhelmed hospitals to turn patients away, even municipal mass graves.

When Boris Johnson’s “quad” of senior ministers met on Friday, they were presented with a chilling prognosis of what would happen if they failed to take draconian action.

As they “walked down the path” of what would happen on current scientific projections, as one official put it, the opposition of the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, who had feared the devastating economic consequences of another lockdown, melted away.

And the prime minister agreed with lockdown advocates Michael Gove and Matt Hancock that the government’s only acceptable course was to reinstate the “stay at home” order of March.

Significant exceptions, including the government’s determination to keep schools open, mean this latest lockdown will be less draconian than in the spring.

But just as in March, Johnson and his colleagues will face the accusation that they have put many lives at risk by acting too late.

The prime minister’s extreme discomfort will only be exacerbated by the fact that he was arguing so enthusiastically against a nationwide lockdown less than a fortnight ago – when he reassured the public his intention was not to “lock the whole place down from John o’ Groats to Lands’ End. Turn the lights out, shut up shop”.

Meanwhile, Downing Street expended precious political capital in newly-gained seats across the north-west by fighting a bitter battle with the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, over financial support in tier 3 areas.

That row was in effect rendered irrelevant on Saturday, when Sunak extended the furlough scheme – which pays 80% of wages – across the country for another month.

Meanwhile, a No 10 operation that prides itself on slick communications, replacing leaky special advisers with hand-picked allies and banning gossipy lunches with Westminster hacks, faced the humiliation of seeing its plans emerge publicly – first late on Friday night in newspapers including the Times; and then on Saturday, as details were finalised, in a series of tweets from Robert Peston.

The comprehensive leaks infuriated Conservative MPs and led to an apologetic letter from Johnson to his own party, and Saturday’s hastily convened press conference, which was delayed by more than two and a half hours as the finishing touches were made. 

Downing Street insiders joked bleakly on Sunday that they had beaten Strictly Come Dancing in the Saturday night TV ratings, netting 4m more viewers than the family favourite, as the public tuned in to see the depressing details of what November would hold.

Johnson’s allies argue that they couldn’t have won the argument about the need for a nationwide lockdown a month or so ago, when the government’s scientific advisers first recommended it.

“At that point, do you take the public with you?,” said one. “Do you take parliament with you? Do you take the media with you? I think the answers to those questions is probably no, a month ago.”

“There was huge scepticism,” said the aide, suggesting the public may not have abided by a lockdown at that time. “Ultimately, you govern by consensus,” they added.

But many in Johnson’s own party were this weekend raging at what they see as the lack of grip shown by Downing Street – and the government’s failure to provide a clear route out of the crisis.

The prime minister’s backbench critics fall into three groups. A hard core of libertarian Conservative MPs, such as Desmond Swayne, of New Forest West, regard draconian restrictions of the kind announced on Saturday as an authoritarian outrage – an infringement of personal freedom.

A much wider group have profound worries about the economic and social impact of the new rules, with many citing the concerns of desperate business-owners in their constituencies.

And a third cohort say they will grudgingly support the lockdown in the face of the bleak epidemiological outlook; but are absolutely despairing about the government’s handling of the past few weeks – and the pandemic more broadly.

One said their response to Johnson’s announcement was “not printable in a family newspaper”.

Another that they could only support the new restrictions if the government pledges to fix the struggling test-and-trace system.

Many fear the Tories’ reputation for hard-headed competence, already threatened by three years of Brexit chaos, has been obliterated by Johnson’s zig-zag approach to tackling the virus, from “stay at home,” to “eat out to help out” and back again.

Labour’s support will ensure the new lockdown rules pass when they are voted on in the House of Commons on Wednesday, even if there is a significant rebellion on the government side.

But Keir Starmer called for a “circuit breaker” lockdown three weeks ago, and he and his front bench will also continue to hammer home the message that Johnson’s “dithering” has cost lives and livelihoods – a message it may become increasingly hard to bat away by dismissing him jokily as “captain hindsight”.





No.6 article:
On 16 October, a history teacher, Samuel Paty, was beheaded outside his school near Paris after showing pupils two caricatures of Muhammad as part of a discussion about free speech.

The French president sought to calm anti-French protests in Islamic countries after the reprinting of the&nbsp;Charlie Hebdo cartoons in an interview with Al Jazeera. Macron said he 'understands the feelings of Muslims about the caricatures'. But he said it was not his role as president to restrict freedom of expression when it caused offence





No.7 article:
Test and trace: wasteful and worse than useless

Instead of unqualified call handlers, why not make use of retired GPs to contact Covid patients, writes Dr David Maisey, while Louise Bradbury, Dora Wood and Dr Sylvia Berney are shocked at the waste of time and money

George Monbiot’s revelation that unqualified call handlers in the test-and-trace system are being inappropriately promoted to clinical contact case workers is astonishing (How teenagers ended up operating crucial parts of England’s test and trace system, 28 October. Has nobody in the Department of Health and Social Care, who requested Serco to initiate this, realised that there is a large pool of available, experienced people capable, with minimal training, of making phone calls involving clinical content to possibly distressed Covid patients? These are the tens of thousands of retired doctors in England; 28,000 retired or unlicensed doctors have been re-registered by the General Medical Council, but very few have since been employed.

There could be many more as the GMC set the maximum length of time since retirement at six years and this could be extended for this work. There is an even greater number of retired senior ward nurses who could be utilised. I am sure many doctors and nurses would take on this role for no reward other than the continued payment of their good NHS pensions and the feeling that they were playing a useful part in controlling the pandemic, so it could cost the government nothing.Dr David MaiseyRetired consultant, Belaugh, Norfolk

• I tested positive for coronavirus on 11 October. I am a practising GP and have a daughter at a local sixth form. Two of my daughter’s year group had tested positive for coronavirus the previous week. My daughter tested positive on 13 October.

On 15 October I was contacted by test and trace. The caller asked how I was and advised me to call 111 if I was feeling unwell. She read from a script advising me of my legal obligations. No attempt was made to identify how I might have contracted the infection, nor indeed who I might have passed it on to. On learning that I was a GP, the caller asked for my opinion on face coverings and whether there was any point to them.

Three questions come to mind. Why has no attempt been made by a suitably qualified individual to identify the source of my infection or follow up potential contacts? Given the incidence of asymptomatic spread among teenagers, why was testing not offered to the whole of my daughter’s sixth form after two confirmed positive cases? And why is test and trace being staffed by people who are questioning government advice? Quite apart from the money being wasted, they could be doing more harm than good.Louise BradburyOxford

• As an NHS consultant, I have been alternately appalled and amused by my recent personal experience of the £12bn “world-beating” test-and-trace system. My husband tested positive for Covid on 24 October and subsequently received his first test-and-trace call. As there were no alternative phone numbers for our children he was told he would be called back three separate times so that he could be given the information for each of them individually, and this is indeed what happened.

Three other members of our household subsequently became unwell and tested positive and, in each case, all of the others were called again individually, the children on a parent’s phone number – 20 planned calls in all. We were told these would be repeated a further three times during our isolation period.

After the first day of fielding these, I set my phone to divert incoming calls from the 0300 number to voicemail. In less than two days I had 41 messages. It’s not preventing any Covid, but presumably all of this activity looks great for their numbers?Dora WoodConsultant in paediatric intensive care, Bristol Royal hospital for children

• My niece is a student in Manchester and, from June to August she got a holiday job, employed by Intelling to trace contacts of Covid cases. She had a day of training on how the system worked and what scripts to use. She worked four days on, four days off, on 12-hour shifts at £9.42 an hour. She had no calls for the first four weeks. In total, over three months, she contacted three cases, two of which went to voicemail. A great holiday job, but a monumental waste of taxpayers’ money and possible contributor to the failure to contain the virus.Dr Sylvia BerneyLondon

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.8 article:
Coronavirus laws and the difficult balance of personal freedoms

Ellen van der Bij and Dr Robin Murphy on the views of the former supreme court justice Jonathan Sumption

Jonathan Sumption (Hysteria and rushed laws ‘more harmful than Covid’, say campaigners, 29 October) said in his lecture last week that people have been “terrorised into surrendering basic freedoms which are fundamental to our existence” and that he regrets that the government does not heed Sage’s advice that citizens “should be treated as rational actors, capable of taking decisions for themselves and managing personal risk”.

As a former supreme court justice, surely he knows that our personal freedoms are rightly constrained by the imperative that they do not harm others. We are not allowed to drink and drive; most people who do this judge themselves not to be a risk. Science shows that they are wrong.

The tragedy of this virus is that it pits our freedom to socialise, not to risk our mental health or our jobs against the freedom of others not to have their lives and jobs put at risk. There is no good solution, only a balance that we should not see as an entitlement, but accept with regret and compassion.

To balance all these factors would require a government that was competent, well-informed, compassionate, willing to admit failure and trustworthy about being fair – one that treated us as adults and involved us, and was seen to have our best interests at heart. Then we could make a free decision to follow the rules; we would not need to be terrorised.

This government has failed on all counts. It treats us as children and we behave as such. Ellen van der Bij Bristol

• Jonathan Sumption believes future generations will consider the UK’s response to Covid as “collective hysteria and governmental folly”. Another prediction is that future generations will marvel at the remarkable collective unity that the world achieved to meet this health challenge. The world has come together to protect the lives of the vulnerable, sacrificing collective freedoms and financial gain for the health of all. This isn’t folly, but rather reflects one of humanity’s greatest aspirations – to care for one another. Dr Robin Murphy Oxford

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.9 article:
Emmanuel Macron’s actions will only fuel rage

Prof Ara Darzi says the French president is stigmatising an entire faith

The hideous attack in the Notre-Dame basilica in Nice (France will not give in to terror after Nice attack, Macron says, 29 October) and the recent beheading of the history teacher Samuel Paty recall the terrible days of Charlie Hebdo, Bataclan and the Nice lorry killer. France is now a deeply unsettled country, and Emmanuel Macron should seek to reassure his citizens.

Instead, the president has ramped up tension by clashing with Islam in an attempt to make “fear change sides”. The French government has closed mosques, searched homes and shut down associations in a crackdown on radical Islamism that has inflamed moderate Muslims in this country and around the world.

Religious tolerance is a cardinal indicator of a civilised society. Europeans have spent centuries telling others how to live, or interpret, their religion. Macron is stigmatising an entire faith based on the actions of a few violent extremists. It can have only one result – to fuel rage.Prof Ara DarziCo-director, Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College London

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.10 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Senior source says officers as well as public are weary after so many changing restrictions

Police broke up a string of raves across England over the weekend, including one involving 1,000 people, raising fears that there may be numerous breaches of the country’s Covid-19 laws in the days before the second national lockdown begins.

The decision to impose the new restrictions has also led police leaders to voice concern that officers already under strain face enforcing the new lockdown on a weary public.

They also anticipate more officers may be absent with Covid than during the first national shutdown.

The Metropolitan police said it had broken up a rave in east London attended by 1,000 people. The force said seven people had been arrested under the coronavirus regulations for holding or being involved in the staging of the unlicensed event, and that they may face £10,000 fines.

The Met, which covers London, said it had dealt with 11 unlicensed music events and illegal large-scale gatherings on Saturday, including a christening in Tottenham, north London.

Commander Ade Adelekan said: “If you think the next few days are an excuse to break the rules, think again. You will get caught, we will take action and impose the maximum sanctions.

“As well as music events there were numerous gatherings which flout the rule of six. We are still in a pandemic and it is extremely selfish of the small minority of people to carry on without regard for the regulations.”

About 500 gathered for a rave at a warehouse in Yate near Bristol, where police said some of the crowd became violent when ordered to disperse and arrests were made. Some people were still present on Sunday afternoon.

Another 300 attended a rave at a farm in Wigan, and police turned more away. Police said the tyres on seven of their vehicles had been slashed and that a 26-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of not providing personal details for a fixed penalty notice under Covid laws. A 36-year-old was arrested for alleged possession of class A drugs.

Assistant chief constable Rob Potts of Greater Manchester police said: “A comprehensive investigation has been launched to bring the organisers to justice. Where there are blatant breaches there will be robust enforcement.”

During the last lockdown young people were most likely to come into conflict with police enforcing the coronavirus regulations.

One senior police source said it was not just the public but also officers who were weary after months of changing restrictions, particularly in areas with higher infection rates.

The source said they had been working hard to enforce regulations to contain the virus: “This comes in addition to the day-to-day stuff and is difficult. Officers have been working longer hours through overtime, with less days off.”

callout-coronavirus

A return to national restrictions should be simpler to police than a patchwork of local and regional rules, but police chiefs are bracing themselves for potentially higher absences than during the first lockdown. The greater availability of testing may mean more officers have to stay at home than during the first lockdown, when absence rates were far lower than feared.

John Apter, the chair of the Police Federation, said: “Policing is already under enough pressure. My colleagues have been doing their best to police restrictions which have changed on a regular basis and have often been confusing.

“It is clear that the virus has not gone away and is spreading at an alarming rate. We must be clear in what we are asking of the public and what we are expecting of the police. The information from government must be clear and unambiguous. Anything less makes the policing of this pandemic even more challenging than it is already.”







No.11 article:
Nice terror attack: French police arrest three more men

Total of six people taken in for questioning over knife attack at basilica that killed three

French police investigating the terrorist attack in Nice have arrested three more men, bringing the number of people taken in for questioning to six.

A 29-year-old Tunisian man was arrested on Saturday in Grasse, and two other men aged 63 and 25 were later taken in for questioning from the same address. They join two men aged 33 and 35 picked up on Saturday and a 47-year-old who has been held since Thursday.

Police say data from two telephones belonging to the alleged attacker, Brahim Aouissaoui, and CCTV footage suggest he arrived in Nice late on 27 October on a train from Rome, between 24-48 hours before the attack on Thursday morning.

He was filmed near the basilica on Wednesday and during the evening phoned his family, who live near Sfax in Tunisia, to say he was in France and would be sleeping rough.

At 8.29 on Thursday he entered the Notre Dame de l’Assomption basilica and is accused of carrying out an attack that left the 60-year-old worshipper Nadine Devillers and the church sexton Vincent Loquès, 55, dead and Simone Barreto Silva, 44, with fatal injuries. Silva managed to run out of the basilica and collapsed in a nearby restaurant where she died.

As well as the large knife Aouissaoui allegedly used to kill the three, he had two more knives and a Qur’an in a backpack. He was shot several times by police who are still waiting to interview him in hospital where he is recovering from serious injuries.

French investigators are working with their counterparts in Italy and Tunisia. It is known Aouissaoui made the crossing from Tunisia to Lampedusa in Italy, arriving on 20 September, and spent a month in Covid-19 quarantine. He was in Bari in southern Italy on 9 October but after he was refused asylum he disappeared.

Churches across France were under extra protection on Sunday, All Saints Day, after the country’s security alert was raised to its highest level.

Christian Estrosi, the mayor of Nice, was due to attend a ceremony of “contemplation” on Sunday evening at the Notre Dame basilica.

Muslims were present for mass in a number of cities, including Blois and Toulouse, as a mark of respect for the victims of last week’s attack. Lahouary Siali, an imam in Toulouse, said they also wished to “reject the jihadis”.

“These people have no spirit or reason and want to make another interpretation [of the Qur’an] that we firmly reject,” he told AFP. “We have not mandated anyone, and given no power of attorney to anyone to speak on our behalf. In the name of what philosophy, what spirituality have you come to take the lives of innocent people?” 

A group of young Muslims in Lodève, in the Hérault west of Montpellier, turned out to symbolically protect their local Saint-Fulcran cathedral after Thursday’s attack, saying they were fed up with being stigmatised and insulted on social media.

“We are French, we were born and have grown up in Lodève, a place where different communities live together. There’s a cathedral and a mosque and never any problems between religions,” said Elyazid, who organised the gathering.

The French interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, told La Voix du Nord newspaper on Sunday that Aouissaoui “was only present on our national territory for a few hours. He’d clearly come to kill. Otherwise how do you explain he had only just arrived and he had several knives? Of course it’s for the anti-terrorist prosecutor to establish how his murderous project was planned, but he clearly didn’t come to obtain papers.”

He said France had sent “hundreds of extra police” to the Italian border, but added: “Unlike the far right, I don’t wish to see a terrorist in every foreigner.”

The recent attacks in France have led to a reported spate of vandalism against mosques in the country. Two people were arrested over the weekend after being caught spraying graffiti on the mosque at Panitin in Seine-Saint-Denis, which has been closed for six months for broadcasting a video criticising Samuel Paty’s course in which he showed pupils caricatures of the prophet Muhammad.

Four mosques in Rouen also reported received threatening letters following the Nice attack. Further south in the Drôme, a Muslim prayer hall was tagged with crosses.





No.12 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Scheme extended for England’s Covid lockdown despite devolved government requests weeks ago

The Welsh and Scottish governments have hit back at the “unfair” extension of the furlough scheme during England’s second lockdown, weeks after the devolved nations called for the measure to support their own tightened restrictions.

By Sunday evening, both the Scottish government and the leader of the Scottish Conservatives found themselves at odds with the Treasury, as it appeared that the scheme would only be available to the devolved nations for the duration of an English lockdown.

The finance secretary, Kate Forbes, said: “Despite discussions today, the UK Treasury continue to deny our request that full furlough at 80% be made available for businesses and employees in Scotland at any point we need it, suggesting that it is only available for the duration of a lockdown in England.”

Earlier in the day the Scottish Conservative leader, Douglas Ross, insisted the UK government “must treat Scotland the same way as England”.

Ross called for No 10 to commit to restarting furlough if a Scottish national lockdown becomes necessary, ahead of a keynote speech to the Policy Exchange thinktank on Monday, saying the guarantee “has to be made immediately”.

Forbes said that she had requested further urgent talks with Treasury ministers after receiving “no clarity” on related questions about payments for business support and whether Holyrood will receive additional Barnett consequentials as a result of increased UK support for English local government.

Echoing the Scottish government’s concerns, the Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, said that extending furlough midway through his country’s “firebreak” measures was “not fair at all”. Drakeford told BBC Radio Cymru that the UK chancellor, Rishi Sunak, had rejected his requests to increase subsidies for wages when Wales went back into lockdown.

“I got an answer quickly to say that was not possible for a number of technical reasons and so, no. Now when things change in England, they change their minds about the furlough plan. And that’s not fair.”

Drakeford later held a meeting of the Welsh cabinet to discuss the impact of the new English measures and said that he would provide more details at Monday’s regular press conference.

Speaking on the BBC’s Sunday Politics Scotland, the Scottish deputy first minister, John Swinney, said that Westminster had disregarded the issues faced in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland when the devolved nations asked for a similar extension several weeks ago.

callout-coronavirus

The latest criticisms reflect ongoing tensions between Westminster and the devolved nations, with Welsh and Scottish first ministers earlier this autumn accusing Boris Johnson of failing to speak to them directly about the possibility of a new national lockdown in England.

A Treasury spokesperson said Ross was “right that this crisis has underlined the importance of the union”.

“Our extension of the furlough scheme until December is just one part of our £200bn support package, which has protected jobs and helped millions of people across the UK continue to provide for their families.

“As we have throughout this crisis, we will continue to listen and respond to people’s concerns as the situation demands.”

Speaking on the BBC’s The Andrew Marr Show, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said he would have preferred to see a four-nations approach to a second lockdown.

While Johnson has faced heavy criticism for his delay in introducing a second lockdown, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have tightened their own restrictions in recent weeks.

Wales introduced a two-week firebreak – coinciding with school half-term, and under which shops, pubs and hotels closed and citizens were told to stay at home – from 23 October, to last until 9 November.

Two weeks earlier, Scotland introduced a similar two-week “circuit breaker” around the school half-term. Sturgeon announced a nationwide ban on drinking indoors in pubs, bars and restaurants across Scotland, and a full shutdown of all licensed premises across the central belt, where infection rates are accelerating most rapidly. Schools and early years childcare remain open and a new five-level system of Covid controls comes into force on Monday.

Coming into force on 2 November: Light controls on socialising with time limits possible on licensed premises; a maximum of eight people from three households meeting indoors, and 15 people from five households outdoors. Indoor worship, weddings and funerals capped at 50 people; car-sharing should be avoided and face coverings compulsory on public transport.

As above but only six people from two households can meet indoors in a public setting or outdoors; numbers at weddings and funerals capped at 20 and no indoor contact sports for over-18s; working in offices restricted to essential only.

As above, but no indoor socialising and only six people from two households outdoors; enhanced protective measures for schools; outdoor events banned, stadiums closed to spectators but drive-in events and cinemas allowed; no sale of alcohol indoors, except served with meals; soft play, snooker halls, nightclubs and casinos closed.

No indoor socialising; six people from two households allowed to meet outdoors; no non-essential travel; no indoor or outdoor alcohol sales; hotels, B&amp;Bs and camp sites restricted to locals or essential workers only; all stadiums and events shut; colleges and universities would have greater restrictions on mixing; amateur outdoor contact sports banned; all leisure venues closed; essential public services only.

As in level 3 but hotels and B&amp;Bs closed except for essential workers; may enforce “stay at home” rules or limit travel distances; only essential journeys on public transport; all non-essential shops are closed; hairdressers, beauticians and driving lessons banned; worship capped at 20 people; only five people allowed at weddings; gyms closed; all leisure venues, pubs, restaurants, visitor attractions and cinemas closed; only essential indoor workplaces, outdoor building and manufacturing allowed.

Severin Carrell,&nbsp;Scotland editor

In Northern Ireland, pubs and restaurants were closed for four weeks starting on 16 October with the exception of takeaways and deliveries. Schools were closed for two weeks from 19 October.

Speaking to BBC Scotland, Swinney said that while he could not categorically rule out a national lockdown in the future, the Scottish government had confidence in its own level system, under which the majority of Scots will live under level 3, which bans indoor socialising and drinking in pubs and restaurants along with travel between local authorities.

Swinney also said that, while there are significant differences in levels of coronavirus in Scotland in general compared with England, there are also significant differences within the country, for example between the Highlands and islands and west-central Scotland.





No.13 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

How new restrictions affect mortgage payments, job support, holiday refunds and more

As with the last lockdown, food shops, supermarkets, chemists and certain other retailers providing “essential goods and services” will be allowed to remain open.

Downing Street said on Sunday it would set out exactly which shops will be allowed to stay open in the coming days.

Expect bike shops, off-licences and wine merchants to get the green light. The government has indicated that garden centres will remain open, in which case DIY stores might be allowed to keep their doors open, too.

Virtually everything else. All non-essential retailers must close on Wednesday night, as must all pubs, cafes, and restaurants. All indoor and outdoor leisure facilities such as bowling alleys, leisure centres, gyms, swimming pools, golf courses and kids’ soft-play areas must all close.

It is the same story for all entertainment venues, meaning all theatres, concert halls, cinemas, museums, galleries and bingo halls have to shut, as must all hairdressers and other personal care outlets.

While restaurants, bars and pubs must close to the public, they will still be allowed to provide takeaway and delivery services. One crucial difference this time around is that the government has said pubs will not be allowed to sell alcohol on a takeaway basis.

During the last lockdown, otherwise closed pubs were able to sell off their beer stocks, which helped keep many going. Unless the government reverses this decision in the next 48 hours, expect some very unhappy publicans who will have to throw away a lot of perfectly good beer.

The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) has previously stated that refunds should be paid to customers who cannot take up a service because of government regulations.

Despite this, some consumers are expected to lose out. For example, Airbnb is at odds with CMA’s stance. It has stated that its standard cancellation terms will apply to all bookings made after March, meaning that some people will lose up to half their money. The company keeps its booking fee if the consumer cancels. Better to let the host cancel, in which case you are entitled to a full refund.

After the Canary Islands were added to the no-quarantine list last week, bookings went mad for November as people tried to grab some last-minute sun. If you are due to fly before Wednesday night, you can still go. Trips that were due to depart from Thursday onwards are off, and whether you receive a refund will depend on how you booked the trip.

Those who booked a package tour will have that trip cancelled and will be entitled to a full refund under the package tour regulations. If you booked your own flight and accommodation, it is looking far less certain. If your flight is cancelled by the airline you can ask for a refund. 

Few travel insurance policies are paying out for the cancellation of trips booked after mid-March, when the coronavirus pandemic became a “known event”. 

Yes. The furlough scheme was due to be replaced by the far less generous job support scheme (JSS) on Sunday, 1 November. However, the furlough scheme, which has paid up to 80% of the wages – up to £2,500 a month – for more 10 million people prevented from working because of Covid restrictions, will now run until December – when this new lockdown is expected to come to an end.

From the employees’ perspective it will be identical to the scheme launched back in March. For employers, it is significantly more generous.

In recent months, the government has been paying 60% of the employee’s payments leaving the company to contribute the remaining 20% of the furlough payments. Now, the chancellor is picking up the full 80%, leaving the employer to cover pension and national insurance contributions.

 To be eligible for the extension, employees must have been on the payroll on 30 October 2020.

The government will also give England-based firms up to £3,000 a month under the local restrictions support grant if their premises is forced to close. They can also apply for £1,000 for every furloughed employee kept on until at least the end of January, or £1,500 for each unemployed 16- to 24-year-old given a ‘‘high-quality’’ work placement for at least six months.

callout-coronavirus

The government’s mortgage payments holiday scheme, which has allowed householders a six month payments deferral, was due to end on Saturday, 31 October, but this is being extended as well.

The Treasury says borrowers who have been impacted by coronavirus are entitled to a six-month mortgage payments holiday without this being recorded on their credit file.

The Financial Conduct Authority will announce further information on how the extension will practically work on Monday. Since the start of the pandemic, lenders have granted a total of £2.5m mortgage payment holidays.





No.14 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Which businesses will have to close, how many people can meet and more key questions answered

Boris Johnson has announced a four-week lockdown in England, after weeks of pressure from his scientific advisers and opposition parties to introduce tougher measures to tackle coronavirus. The full details of the restrictions will be published early this week before a vote in parliament on Wednesday.

This is what we know so far.

The national restrictions are due to come into effect on Thursday, after MPs vote on them on Wednesday, and remain in place at least until 2 December. After that, national measures are to be replaced with the current tiered system of restrictions linked to a region’s infection rate.

But it is possible that the national lockdown could be extended if the R value does not drop significantly, the cabinet office minister, Michael Gove, conceded on Sunday. Ministers hope the new measures will contain the spread of Covid-19, but so far the virus has outstripped the scientists’ “worst-case scenarios”.

Any extension of the lockdown beyond 2 December will require a vote by MPs, Downing Street has said.

While the prime minister is keen to stress the new restrictions do not amount to a lockdown of the kind the country faced in March, they are still stringent.

People can leave home only for limited reasons, including:

For childcare or education, where it is not provided online.

To go to work unless it can be done from home.

Outdoor exercise either with household members or with one person from another household.

For all medical reasons and appointments.

To escape injury or harm, such as domestic abuse.

To provide care for vulnerable people or volunteer.

To shop for food and essentials.

To see people in your support bubble.

Children will still be able to move between homes if their parents are separated.

This list is not exhaustive and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out this week when the legislation is published. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse. So far, however, forces have been reluctant to enforce the regulations aggressively.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

The health minister, Nadine Dorries, has said children under school age, as well as children and adults dependent on round-the-clock care, such as those with severe disabilities, will not count towards the limit of two people meeting outside. “This will mean that a parent can see a family member with their baby or young children,” Dorries tweeted, who added that official guidance will be updated to reflect this.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned.

There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Overnight stays away from primary residences will not be allowed, except for specific exceptions including for work.

callout-coronavirus

The prime minister said the clinically vulnerable or those aged over 60 should be especially careful and minimise contacts, but there would be no return to the shielding programme used in the first lockdown. Johnson said those in this category should work from home.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open. However, pubs will not be able to sell takeaway alcohol, even though alcohol can be bought from supermarkets and other shops.

Parents will still be able to access some registered childcare and other childcare activities, and they are able to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under. 

Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one work, but most clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Despite some lobbying, for now it seems that even distanced outdoor sports such as golf and tennis will remain off limits.

Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Dentists and opticians will not be forced to close. People will also be able to purchase and rent properties, and move home, although this must be done within the context of the new rules.

• This article was amended on 2 November 2020 to include further information about childcare.





No.15 article:
Scholars warn of collapse of democracy as Trump v Biden election looms

Dozens of experts on fascism warn of global danger, calling for action from ordinary people: ‘It is not too late’

Dozens of historians of fascism and authoritarianism have signed a letter warning that democracy “is either withering or in full-scale collapse globally”, and urging ordinary people to take action.

“Democracy is extremely fragile and potentially temporary, requiring vigilance and protection,” the scholars wrote in the letter released on Sunday. “It is not too late to turn the tide.”

More than 80 signatories, including professors and other scholars at universities in the US, Canada, and Europe, do not agree on whether to label Donald Trump a “fascist”. The fragility of democracy worldwide, they write, will continue to be an issue “irrespective of who wins the American presidency”.

“Whether Donald J Trump is a fascist, a post-fascist populist, an autocrat or just a bumbling opportunist, the danger to democracy did not arrive with his presidency and goes well beyond 3 November 2020,” the scholars write, referring to election day on Tuesday, when Trump will face Joe Biden at the polls.

However, the historians warn, particularly in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, “the temptation to take refuge in a figure of arrogant strength is now greater than ever”. They suggest citizens must be ready not only to defend democracy at the ballot box, but “if necessary, also through non-violent protests in the streets”.

“That’s the lesson, to not be complacent in moments like this,” said Jennifer Evans, a professor of German history at Carleton University in Canada and one of the lead organizers of the open letter. “This is a very dangerous time, and we all have a responsibility to prop up democracy.”

Among the many warning signs that democracy is at risk, the historians argue, are the spread of disinformation, inequality, the “politics of internal enemies” and politically motivated violence.

“We need to reveal and denounce any and all connections between those in power and those vigilante and militia forces using political violence to destabilize our democracies,” the letter urges.

Evans said she was particularly disturbed by the evidence of “the infiltration of the far right” in police and military organizations around the world, including in the US, Germany, and Canada.

Signatories to the letter include several authors who have commented on authoritarianism and fascism during Trump’s presidency, including Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a professor at New York University, and Jason Stanley, the author of How Fascism Works.





No.16 article:
Gathering at Grand Palace follows months of protests calling for reform of monarchy

Thousands of royalists have thronged to Bangkok’s Grand Palace for a glimpse of the Thai king, in a massive show of support after months of protests calling for an overhaul of the government and reform of the monarchy.

King Maha Vajiralongkorn sits at the apex of Thai power, his influence permeating every aspect of society. But the once-unassailable institution has faced an unprecedented challenge from a growing pro-democracy movement, with calls for reforms including an end to draconian royal defamation laws.

On Sunday royal devotion was on display as thousands wearing yellow shirts – the royal colour – waited near the Grand Palace clutching portraits of King Vajiralongkorn and Queen Suthida.

“We will live loyally, die faithfully,” chanted the crowd as the king emerged from the palace to greet them. “Long live the king!”

Zigzagging through the crowd, the monarch received flowers from his supporters, at one point saying “thank you” and signing a portrait, according to footage from local media.

The king, who spends long periods of time in Germany, has been in the kingdom in recent weeks to mark a Buddhist holiday and the anniversary of his father’s death. The visit has coincided with demonstrations from mostly young activists, who have staged guerrilla rallies, drawing thousands to Bangkok’s most traffic-clogged intersections as a show of defiance.

While the movement is leaderless, the protesters are united in their demand for the removal of the prime minister, Prayut Chan-ocha, a former military chief who came to power after staging a coup in 2014. But calls for reform of the monarchy have drawn a backlash from Thailand’s conservative bloc, rousing royalist groups to stage their own rallies.

“We came here to show our loyalty to the king,” said Bin Bunleurit, a former actor who decried the pro-democracy movement’s demands.

The protesters have also called for a clear accounting of the palace’s finances, which the extremely wealthy king took control of in 2018, and for the monarch to stay out of politics.

“It is not reform, it is about overthrowing the monarchy,” Bin claimed, speaking to reporters outside the palace.

So far, the pro-democracy protests have remained peaceful, but scores of students and activists have been arrested and charged – some with the serious crime of sedition.

Over the weekend three high-profile student leaders were released on bail, only to be swiftly accosted as authorities attempted to rearrest them on another charge. They were taken to hospital after an altercation with plainclothes police.

On Sunday night one of the trio, Parit “Penguin” Chiwarak, pledged in a Facebook post that they would keep pushing for their goals. “If the people do not step back, we will not step back,” he wrote.





No.17 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Critics say figures much higher than official tallies, but Putin has ruled out new lockdown

Months after the Kremlin said it had the coronavirus pandemic under control, record numbers of Russians are falling ill and dying of the disease every day, pushing the country’s health services to breaking point while Vladimir Putin has ruled out a new nationwide lockdown.

The official daily tally of new cases rose above 18,000 for the first time on Friday, when 355 deaths were also reported. Critics say the death toll indicated by tallies of excess deaths could be far higher. The increases have mirrored those in European countries such as France and Spain, but the brunt of the outbreak has been borne by far-flung regions that rarely make the evening news.

As opposed to the spring outbreak, when Moscow, St Petersburg and the Caucasus region were worst affected, the new rise has been driven by the disease’s spread across the Urals, Siberia and the border with Kazakhstan, where colder weather has already driven many people indoors.

The images coming from Russia’s regions have been grisly. In the cities of Barnaul and Novokuznetsk, bleak videos have surfaced showing the bodies of coronavirus victims clogging hospital corridors. “There are bodies everywhere,” an anonymous videographer said in one clip.

Regional officials later confirmed the images. They said they didn’t have enough pathologists to carry out autopsies, so the bodies remained on trolleys and the floors of a hospital basement that serves as a makeshift morgue.

Ambulance drivers in Omsk have complained of hospitals turning them away, forcing them to protest with sirens blaring in front of a regional health ministry building. Doctors in Kurgan said the health system had collapsed and called on the government to send military medics. “There are no places in the hospitals, there are not enough medical personnel,” they wrote in an open letter.

A shortage of oxygen in a hospital in southern Rostov-on-Don led to the deaths of as many as 13 patients in a single day, sparking an official inquiry. “The patients were panicking, trying to get oxygen from anywhere … they were like fish pulled out of the water,” Artur Toporov, an anaesthesiologist who was on call during the incident, told Novaya Gazeta. “We spoke to them. We could not do anything else for them.” Authorities have not confirmed how many people died, but a criminal investigation has been launched into five deaths.

Even Russia’s political class has been hit. A fifth of the MPs in the 450-seat Duma have fallen ill with the disease and 18 of the heads of country’s 85 regions have also been infected. The mayor of Ufa, a city of more than a million and capital of the Bashkortostan region, died of the disease on Wednesday, 35 days after testing positive.

Medics in several cities reached by the Guardian complained of poor preparation for the new rise in cases and an “unrealistic” workload for doctors. “People are acting like they are invincible, like they were already victorious, nobody is taking basic precautions,” said Maria, a paediatrician from Chelyabinsk, where infections increased sharply in September. “Conditions are just as bad as they were in spring, nothing has changed.”

A hospital doctor in the hard-hit Altai region described pressure to discharge patients because of a lack of beds. Russia’s deputy prime minister, Tatiana Golikova, told Putin on Wednesday that 16 regions were in a critical situation with more than 90% of hospital beds occupied. Five of them were at more than 95% of capacity.

Experts are hesitant to call it a second wave. They say that in most regions the first wave never truly receded. The data in recent weeks, however, has been extremely alarming.

“It’s much worse than in the first months,” said Alexey Raksha, an independent demographer who previously worked for the government statistics agency Rosstat. He cited rising official tallies, past data on excess deaths and experimental data collated by colleagues that shows an increasing number of internet searches for coronavirus symptoms. “I’m expecting huge excess mortality in October and unprecedented in November,” he said.

Excess mortality refers to the number of people who die in a given period above a past average, and it is an alternative way to estimate the toll taken by the coronavirus. Reuters reported last month that excess mortality in Russia from May to July was more than triple the official number of coronavirus deaths, leaving tens of thousands of deaths unexplained.

Raksha criticised tallies published on the government’s StopCoronavirus website, saying they should be “multiplied by four to get a much clearer picture”. The country’s current death toll is 27,656, but an estimate based on a proportion of excess mortality since April would put it between 120,000 and 130,000, he said.

Russian agencies have taken steps to block leaks. The health ministry has barred employees, including many doctors, from speaking to the media without coordinating with its press office. Data on deaths from the regions can take months to reach the public.

Many civil registration offices had stopped reporting data on deaths, Raksha said, citing instances in ten regions, particularly those hard-hit by the virus. “We need something better. The official statistics are not up to it.”

callout-coronavirus

The Russian government has defended its conservative methodologies, including the requirement that coronavirus diagnoses be confirmed by an autopsy. The lack of qualified pathologists to perform them is part of the official reason for the buildup of bodies in regional hospitals. Officials say a lack of morgue space and families’ slowness to retrieve bodies are also factors.

Russia has, however, resisted declaring a new coronavirus lockdown. “We’re not planning sweeping restrictive measures, the initiation of a so-called nationwide lockdown, which would lead to practically a complete shutdown of the economy and business operations,” Putin said at an investment conference on Thursday.

Sergei Sobyanin, the influential mayor of Moscow, said: “I very much hope that none of the severe measures being applied in Europe, in France, Germany and other countries, will be applied here.”





No.18 article:
Tropical storm Eta expected to become hurricane and heads to Central America

System formed in the Caribbean and tied record for most named storms in a single Atlantic hurricane season

Forecasters said they expected the newly-formed Tropical storm Eta to become a hurricane by Monday, shortly after the system formed in the Caribbean and tied the record for most named storms in a single Atlantic hurricane season.

The increase in named storms can be attributed to human-induced climate change. As the world’s oceans continue to warm, hurricanes are more likely.

Eta is the 28th named Atlantic storm this season, tying the 2005 record. However, this is the first time the Greek letter Eta is being used as a storm name because in 2005, after the season ended, meteorologists determined there was a storm that should have been named.

Hurricane season still has a month to go, ending on 30 November. In 2005, Zeta formed at the end of December.

The system had maximum sustained winds of 40mph on Sunday morning, the US National Hurricane Center said in an advisory. It was centered 215 miles south of Kingston, Jamaica, and 435 miles east of Cabo Gracias a Dios on the Nicaragua-Honduras border.

The system is forecast to be near the north-eastern coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras by Tuesday morning. A hurricane watch was issued for parts of both countries. Eta was moving west at about 15mph.

Rainfall totals could reach 15in in parts of Jamaica, the Cayman Islands and the southern coast of Hispaniola by Thursday evening. Isolated amounts of up to 30in could fall in portions of Honduras and Nicaragua, forecasters said.





No.19 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

With citizens and health service overstretched, protests are gaining momentum in the Italian city

The four women huddling around their neighbour in an alleyway off Via dei Tribunali, in central Naples, took turns to call an ambulance. “It’s an absolute disaster!” yelled one of them, called Antonietta. “Nobody is responding, we’ve been trying for hours.”

The woman sitting on a chair in the middle of them, with her head bent forward, had a heart problem. Not even taxi drivers were answering the phone. One woman suggested calling the police. “Now do you understand why we’re so angry?” said Antonietta. “Things are so desperate here – Covid is not the only thing that is killing us.”

Emotions are running high as coronavirus rapidly spreads through the southern Italian city and the prospect of another lockdown looms. Giuseppe Conte’s government is working towards new restrictions, expected to be decided on Monday, that could result in shutdowns in areas where the virus is escalating.

But for many in Naples, where large numbers of people are employed on precarious contracts or off the books, the fear of poverty is greater than the fear of the virus.

One of the most densely populated cities in Europe, Naples makes up the lion’s share of the infection tally in its surrounding Campania region, where daily cases have increased eightfold in less than a month to 3,669 on Saturday, the second highest in Italy after the badly hit Lombardy region in the north.

Thousands took to the streets as a curfew began last Friday after the regional president, Vincenzo De Luca, threatened a complete lockdown unless rules are observed.

The protests, for the most part peaceful, have been gathering momentum since Monday, when bars and restaurants, a mainstay of the city’s economy, were forced to close at 6pm as part of nationwide measures. Cinemas, theatres and gyms have also been closed as the central government scrambles to regain control of the pandemic.

As a result, Naples delicately balances on the precipice of not just a health but an economic disaster, something that can be seen in the narrow lanes flanking Via dei Tribunali, which epitomise the charm and contradictions of the city. There are the bars and restaurants that have flourished thanks to a boom in tourism; then there are the case bassi, ground-floor homes where multigenerational families live. The homes usually have just one room, and a door opening on to the street that provides the only source of air and light.

“There are six or seven people living in a space of around 30 sq metres,” said Father Salvatore Melluso, a priest at Caritas Diocesana di Napoli, a church-run charity. “It’s impossible for them to stay inside, let alone maintain a distance. These families are desperate and abandoned.”

Melluso, 31, worked relentlessly during the first lockdown as demand for food parcels soared. In early October, he tested positive for Covid-19 and is still in quarantine.

“The problem is colossal,” he said. “People were only starting to recover from the first lockdown. I am very afraid about a civil revolt if there is a new lockdown.”

However, with hospitals under strain, the chances of averting a second lockdown are looking increasingly slim. The number of people hospitalised for Covid-19 in Campania has jumped from 474 on 3 October to more than 1,500 on Saturday, of whom 168 are in intensive care. Emergency units are filling up as people rush to them even with mild symptoms. The virus has killed two medics in recent weeks.

One of the reasons for the rise in infections is because authorities have lost control of testing and tracing.

Maurizio Di Mauro, the director of Cotugno hospital in Naples, which specialises in infectious diseases, is trying to manage the situation from home after contracting coronavirus. He said all of those hospitalised for Covid-19 have pneumonia.

“I can’t give up,” he said. “I’m worried about the fact that we are losing track of the asymptomatic people, who are infecting entire families or transmitting the disease just by walking down the street. The more positive cases rise, the more hospitalisations will rise.”

Di Mauro suggested a complete lockdown of about three weeks to allow the test-and-trace system to recuperate. “We need to move quickly,” he added.

Bruno Zuccarelli, vice-president of the Naples order of doctors, said the main challenge nwas the shortage of health workers. “We have the technical capabilities, but completely lack specialists to deal with it,” he said.

Campania and the rest of southern Italy managed to avoid the worst of the initial phase of the pandemic. The contagion was slowed by the national measures, but also because people were keenly aware of the limitations of their health systems compared with those in the wealthier north.

“Neapolitans respected the rules so well because they saw the terrible images from Lombardy, and they understood that if the tsunami arrived here, we wouldn’t have the hospital beds to cure them,” said Luigi de Magistris, the mayor of Naples.

The mayor has clashed with regional authorities over the failure to reinforce the health system over the past six months. He said there are around 500 intensive care beds available across Campania, a region of 5.8 million people.

“There are few new beds, no ambulances, we can’t do tests quickly enough or trace,” he said. “This is why people are bitter, as they see that nothing was done to prepare.”

callout-coronavirus

Resentment is also being fuelled by the fact that thousands of people across Italy are still waiting on money owed to them as part of the furlough scheme.

Salvatore Giugliano, the owner of the family-run restaurant, Mimi alla Ferrovia, which opened in central Naples in 1943, has been covering his staff’s furlough payments in the absence of state aid. He has also protested.

“The protests are more against the institutions and their way of doing things,” he said. “They’ve asked so much of us and now threaten another lockdown without an economic plan – people are tired and exasperated.”





No.20 article:
What can we learn about 2020 from the Black Death? Dorsey Armstrong has all the answers

The US professor became an unlikely TV star this year, with a series about the plague. She explains what the 1348 pandemic can tell us today about conspiracy theories, recklessness, deurbanisation and social unrest

A pandemic rages across the globe, leaving a trail of death, confusion and economic ruin, and changing everything. This is a new disease, about which little is understood. People and communities don’t know what to do, and they react in different ways – sensibly, understandably, honourably, idiotically, criminally. Cities go into lockdown, quarantine rules are introduced, new hospitals are built to try to cope with the numbers of sick. There are heroes and acts of kindness and selflessness. There are also deniers, conspiracy theorists, finger pointers. And there are people – including those in positions of leadership and power – who don’t just fail to step up to the plate, but abandon the field of play.

The year is 1348, of course. Not 2020, but you knew that. Different deals: Covid is a virus; the Black Death – the Great Mortality, pestilence, plague – a flea-driven bacterial infection. Now (it still exists) plague is mostly treatable with antibiotics; then, of course, it lived up to its names. “The thing I like to stress to people feeling anxious about Covid is that the mortality rate for the Black Death in the 14th century was about 80%,” says Dorsey Armstrong. With Covid it is far, far lower, “although I understand absolutely it’s not encouraging to people with family members who have gotten ill and who have died”.

Armstrong, 49, is a professor of English and medieval literature at Purdue University in Indiana. She did a series of TV lectures – The Black Death: The World’s Most Devastating Plague – that became an unlikely hit. Made in 2016, way before Covid, it went out on Amazon Prime this year, just as the new pandemic struck and locked-down 21st-century humans looked to the distant past to try to understand what was happening and what may happen next.

We meet the modern way, on Zoom. She is sitting at her desk at home in West Lafayette, Indiana, in front of busy bookshelves. No plague kitsch on display, sadly. In the series she charts the spread of the Black Death across Eurasia from a panelled room decorated with skulls and rats. Standing on an oriental rug and wearing a series of brightly coloured jackets (chosen by her mum), she alternates her angle of delivery as if addressing students on different flanks of a lecture hall. The lessons are scholarly but lively, compelling and human; as likely to reference The Walking Dead as Giovanni Boccaccio’s The Decameron. And she serves them up with relish and a wry wit. So the mass graves of medieval Florence were dug deep, then filled with a layer of bodies, followed by a thin layer of earth, then more bodies, “like how one layers lasagne with cheese”.

It has been an intense few months for Armstrong. Four family members – her parents, her brother and her sister – got Covid-19. All have recovered, though her mother was hospitalised for several weeks and still suffers from exhaustion. Armstrong’s 14-year-old twin daughters have been at home all day, off school. One, who has autism and for whom school was stressful, “likes to tell us that she is having a great coronavirus … For the other, the lack of social contact is really difficult.” At the same time there has been this explosion of interest in her Black Death course, though she stresses she would “prefer that the course languished in oblivion rather than there be Covid-19 sparking an interest in it”.

Different diseases, different times, but a lot of human nature spans the centuries and Armstrong immediately saw parallels. “The thing that is most horrifying about studying the Black Death is that, in the terror, people were looking for anyone to blame,” she says. “These conspiracy theories start to circulate about Jewish populations, that this was a Jewish conspiracy and that Jews were poisoning wells and planned to wipe out medieval Christian society, which of course was absolutely not true. When Covid first erupted we saw, to my distress, scapegoating of people of Asian ancestry because it looked as if the virus had originated in China.” It didn’t help that the US president called it the “China virus” and “kung flu”. She’s not a fan.

When it was clear the Black Death was wiping out whole communities, some turned to God, prayer, even self-flagellation. Others thought, if we are going to go, let’s have a good time. Armstrong hasn’t noticed any whippings today, but the partying is going on. “We see that quite a bit with college campuses where students – 18 to 22 years old, prefrontal cortex not fully developed – have decided they are going to have a good time.”

A loss of confidence in leaders – political, religious – is another parallel. Also deurbanisation. Armstrong witnessed well-to-do New Yorkers heading to their second homes out of town when the city was hit hard in the summer. In Florence – which kind of was the New York of the 14th century – “rich Florentines fled to the countryside to try to avoid the Black Death while the city was suffering”. Then, once everyone had left, the city fathers started dishing out fines, telling people they had to come back to do their jobs. Not unlike essential workers being called back to work today.

I wonder what connection she sees between Covid and the recent protest and unrest in her country, with people calling for a radical change to deeply entrenched inequalities? “It’s not that the pandemic contributes to social unrest, it is that the pandemic allows other systemic problems in society to become more visible. They cannot be controlled or contained or dismissed or covered up because the systems that were in place to maintain a status quo are too busy coping with this other emergency.”

She brings up the serfs in medieval England who were suddenly enabled to tell the lord of the manor they didn’t need to stay with him, instead they could head off down the road where people were desperately needed to work the land, and actually charge wages. “In some places, people who had been at the bottom of the social order were able to carve out a better situation for themselves – if they survived the plague.”

This sounds like good news. And though the same feudal agrarian system no longer exists, even in the US midwest where Armstrong lives, perhaps opportunity for social mobility may emerge from this? “This situation has made plain that the system, especially in the US, is fatally flawed and that there are no safety nets. For the first time I hope that we will begin a conversation about universal basic income. And it’s made clear that if you connect health insurance to employment you are going to have a disaster if people lose their jobs because businesses have shut down. I hope we are going to have another conversation about universal health care in this country.”

Scholars have often said that medieval European society would have continued being medieval for longer had it not been for the Black Death. Also that it sowed the seeds that led to the Reformation and the Renaissance. And while Armstrong doesn’t dispute these positive changes, she points out that it took time for them to register. “It’s not, once we make it through, all sunshine and rainbows, but there is hope for improvement in society.”

More than a post-Covid new Renaissance, she would like to see a fundamental step backwards to shore up the foundations of society. “It would be great if we get some great literature out of this,” she says. But what she really wants to see is “communal and systemic structures in place that support people that we don’t currently have”. She looks back to Florence – I think Armstrong likes Florence – which set up the first board of health after the first wave of plague.

It’s going to be easier for the historians of the future; there is so much more documentation. “In the case of the Black Death, sometimes you don’t have information,” she says. “What we have that shows the devastation is a lack of information – bureaucratic documents that suddenly cease being continued, or a sudden silence some place because there is no one left to document what happened. Or an increase in people writing wills.”

She is in no doubt that our times will be studied, in detail; not just the 21st century, they will be zooming in much closer. “Someone will say: ‘So, what’s your field of study?’ and they’ll say: ‘Well, I do the mid-portion of 2020, I focus on March through July.’ Another will say: ‘I focus on the second half of the year.’ Because this year has been so unusual in the way it has affected all levels of society and everyone around the world.”

If more people knew about the Black Death, she thinks, things could have been different. “If people had understood the devastation plague had wrought on the medieval world, going into the current pandemic, I think more people would have taken steps to curb the spread of Covid a little earlier.”

She’s not suggesting that Donald Trump wasn’t up on his medieval history, is she? “Or with what is happening right now. Or reality.” And she rattles off the list of failures – delayed lockdown, not enough adequate PPE or accurate test and tracing, no coordinated national plan – that could so easily also be applied to this country. Oh, go on, give him a score, it’s part of your job. Student Trump, out of 10? “Minus 20.”





No.21 article:
Arrests and injuries in Madrid and looting in Logroño amid anger over Covid restrictions

Spain’s prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, has called for an end to “the violent and irrational behaviour” of a minority of people after a weekend of angry demonstrations in cities around the country against the government’s decision to declare a six-month state of emergency in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

Thirty-two people were arrested and 12 injured in Madrid on Saturday night after a protest over the region’s midnight to 6am curfew turned violent, with rubbish bins set alight on the city’s Gran Vía and skirmishes with police.

There were also protests over the weekend in Barcelona, Málaga, Vitoria, Valencia, Santander and Burgos.

Police in Logroño, the capital of the La Rioja region, arrested six people on Saturday night after bins were torched and some shops smashed and looted. Videos showed shop windows being broken and large crowds of people running from riot police.

One shop owner in the city said she had lost stock and money to the looters. “They broke three display windows, ransacked them and half the shop, broke mannequins, helped themselves to the clothes racks, ripped off the computer and took money from the cash till,” Cristina Pérez told local TV.

However, on Sunday morning groups of young people from the city took to the streets to begin clearing up the previous night’s mess and debris.

Sánchez, who secured parliamentary support earlier this week for the six-month state of emergency, appealed for calm and solidarity. “Only through responsibility, unity and sacrifice will we be able to beat this pandemic that is ravaging every country,” he tweeted on Saturday night. “The violent and irrational behaviour of minority groups is intolerable. This isn’t the way.”

The president of the Madrid region, who has clashed with Sánchez and accused the central government of overstepping its powers, also called for responsibility. “The people sowing chaos on the streets are not those most vulnerable to the virus, nor are they the ones fighting for their lives,” said Isabel Díaz Ayuso. “They are organised groups looking to take advantage of the situation and people’s fears.”

Although some of the protests have been led by far-left groups, police believe some of the demonstrations have involved “far-right elements”.

The far-right Vox party, which has bitterly criticised the Socialist-led government’s handling of the pandemic, has done little to defuse tensions. Its leader, Santiago Abascal, has said “there are more reasons than ever to protest against this government which is ruining us”, and called on the police to protect the right to protest but blamed the violence on “the far left”.

The state of emergency allows Spain’s regional governments to order an overnight curfew to run from 11pm to 6am, or to begin and finish an hour earlier or later. The only area of Spain exempt from the curfew is the Canary Islands because of what Sánchez has termed “the very positive epidemiological situation there”.

The state of emergency also permits Spain’s regional governments to bring in full or partial lockdowns, and limits public and private gatherings to six people.

Spain remains one of the countries in western Europe hardest hit by the virus. By Friday evening, it had recorded 1,185,678 cases and 35,878 deaths.





No.22 article:
Energy minister says Moscow will also focus on clean-burning hydrogen and carbon capture

Russia has no plans to rein in its production of fossil fuels in the coming decades despite the global efforts to shift towards low-carbon energy, according to its energy minister.

Alexander Novak told the Guardian that Russia did “not see that we will achieve a peak in [gas] production anytime soon” because the world’s appetite for gas would continue to grow in the decades ahead despite its growing number of climate targets.

Instead, during a crucial decade in the battle to keep a lid on rising global temperatures, Russia will pair a 50% growth in gas production with plans to become a global leader in producing clean-burning hydrogen and developing carbon capture technology.

Russia intends to ramp up gas production from its vast and inexpensive reserves to reach 1tn cubic meters a year by 2035, from just under 680bn cubic meters last year.

It also plans to increase the amount of gas it exports on giant super-chilled tankers more than four-fold, from 29m tonnes a year to 120-140m tonnes, while continuing to send about 200bn cubic meters of gas to Europe via pipelines including the politically contentious Nord Stream project.

“I believe natural gas to be an eco-friendly energy source,” said Novak. “We believe that the share of natural gas in the global energy mix will only increase. We believe this to apply not only to Europe, but globally too.”

Energy economists forecast that demand for gas will continue to grow, particularly in Asia, as more countries draw a line on burning coal, which emits almost double the carbon dioxide of gas. But EU demand for gas, of which 30% is met by Russia’s state gas monopoly Gazprom, could fall 8% below 2019 levels by the end of the decade, according to the latest report from the International Energy Agency.

Novak said Russia also planned to become a global player in the hydrogen economy, by producing and transporting the clean-burning alternative to traditional fossil fuel gas.

Hydrogen can be produced either by using renewable energy to split water molecules in a process known as electrolysis, or by splitting off the carbon dioxide from gas through pyrolysis. Novak said Russia was able to do both and was also developing technology to capture the carbon emissions created during hydrogen production to offer a genuinely “green” gas to its customers using Russia’s existing gas transport channels.

“All this has been quite expensive so far, but we believe that just like with the renewable energy sources, prices will go down over time, which will determine the pace of hydrogen adoption. To put it briefly, we can produce hydrogen and use it, as well as deliver it to consumers. We can also export the hydrogen production technologies,” Novak said.

Pursuing hydrogen production would safeguard Russia’s fossil fuel economy while helping to reduce emissions worldwide. But environmental groups, including Carbon Action Tracker, have nonetheless branded Russia’s climate plans “critically insufficient”.

The emissions targets set through the Paris Agreement are set against levels in 1990, which for Russia marked its highest emissions on record. The collapse of Soviet-era industries in the early 1990s halved the country’s emissions within a matter of years, meaning it would take very little effort for the Kremlin to record emissions which are between 25-30% lower than levels in 1990 by 2030.

Novak said: “We are working very actively in Russia, pursuing the climate agenda, working to decrease the greenhouse and CO2 emissions, and we’re working on these issues on a systematic basis.”





No.23 article:
We’d like to hear from people about how they feel about the new lockdown in England. Share your views 

Boris Johnson has announced a second national Covid lockdown in England which will come into effect on Thursday 5 November and is currently set to end on Wednesday 2 December.

The government has introduced new countrywide measures because of the rapid increase of coronavirus cases. Full details of the restrictions will be published on Tuesday.

We want to find out what you think about the new measures? How are they going to affect you? If you’re able, are you going to try and spend the lockdown away from cities or somewhere with more space? Are you intending to abide by the rules?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you wish or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.24 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

More than 2.5 million Slovaks took swab tests on Saturday, with 25,850 testing positive 

Nearly half of Slovakia’s entire population took Covid-19 swabs on Saturday, the first day of a two-day nationwide testing drive the government hopes will help reverse a surge in infections without a hard lockdown.

The scheme, a first for a country of Slovakia’s size, is being watched by other nations looking for ways to slow the virus spread and avoid overwhelming their health systems.

The defence minister, Jaroslav Naď said on Sunday 2.58 million Slovaks had taken a test on Saturday, and 25,850 or 1% tested positive and had to go into quarantine.

The EU country has a population 5.5 million and aims to test as many people as possible, except for children under 10.

More than 40,000 medics and support teams of soldiers, police, administrative workers and volunteers staffed about 5,000 sites to administer the antigen swab tests. The testing was free and voluntary, but the government has said it will impose a lockdown on those who do not participate, including a ban on going to work.

The prime minister, Igor Matovič, apologised for putting pressure on people to take part, but said the requirement was justified. “Freedom must go together with responsibility toward those who ... are the weakest among us, oncology patients, old people, people with other diseases,” he told a news conference.

Slovakia had relatively few cases in the spring and summer after swiftly imposing restrictions. But infections have soared in recent weeks, raising concerns the country may follow the Czech Republic, which has the highest two-week death rate in Europe.

callout-coronavirus

The scheme has faced opposition from some experts who doubted it made sense as an one-off measure, or pointed to the antigen tests used, which are less accurate than the laboratory PCR tests and may thus return more false negatives and false positives.

The government is planning a second round of testing next weekend.

On Sunday, Slovakia reported 2,282 new cases through PCR tests, putting the total at 59,946, not including those identified in the nationwide scheme, and 219 deaths to date.





No.25 article:




No.26 article:




No.27 article:
Belarus protesters use Telegram to keep up pressure on Lukashenko

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Protest anthems

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

The Trio and hand symbols

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

Secure messaging app pivotal to organisation of protests and spreading of news about repressions

Secure messaging app pivotal to organisation of protests and spreading of news about repressions

In a small Minsk apartment one evening last week, a group of people gathered to discuss plans for a Halloween party with a twist. There would be costumes, drinks and games, but the main event was a ceremonial funeral. The plan: to bury Alexander Lukashenko’s dictatorship.

“Maybe we should bury a pumpkin with a moustache,” suggested one young woman.

“What about a giant rat?”

“Yes! Brilliant idea! Write it down in the chat. We’ll need to work out where to get the rat model from.”

“And we’ll need spades to dig the grave. It would be cool if we have a proper grave. There’s a funeral parlour near me, maybe we can actually order a proper gravestone.”

The discussion went on in a similar vein for several hours. Those gathered were the most active members of a local group coordinating protest events in one small district of Minsk, using Telegram. The app has been a driving force of the protests against Lukashenko, since they began in August after he declared victory in a rigged election. The biggest channel has nearly 2 million followers, helping to direct the weekly Sunday protests and spreading news about new repressions.

Since August, the protest has also become localised, and hundreds of smaller groups have appeared. Now there are Telegram channels for each city, each district, and in some cases even individual apartment blocks. They provide support for people who get detailed by police, a forum to swap ideas, and in many parts of Minsk, local protest events, lectures or concerts.

The most famous of these courtyard protest venues is just north of the centre, where a mural has been painted of two DJs who achieved cult status before the election, when they were hired for a pro-Lukashenko gathering and played the perestroika-era track Changes, which has become the unofficial anthem of the Belarusian uprising. The square has been unofficially renamed Changes Square and attracts musicians who give concerts most weekends.

White bracelets/ballot initiatives

Supporters of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya wore white bracelets to polling stations on Sunday in the hope that a show of popular support for the opposition candidate would prevent election workers from spoiling their ballots. Similar initiatives called for voters to upload photographs of their ballots or to fold them in specific ways, so they would be visible in the ballot box. Supporters later wore white ribbons to protests or tied them to their cars and motorcycles.

Protest anthems

Two songs have been popular at pro-Tikhonovskaya rallies. One is the&nbsp;Kino classic&nbsp;Peremen, or Changes, a perestroika-era song that became a protest anthem in eastern Europe.&nbsp;Two Belarusian DJs&nbsp;were each sentenced to ten days in jail last week for&nbsp;playing the song&nbsp;at a pro-government concert. The other was a&nbsp;Russian translation&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Polish song Walls, which was popular among the workers of 1980s Solidarity movement. The chorus ends: “Then the walls will fall, fall, fall. And bury the old world.”

The Trio and hand symbols

Three women&nbsp;spearheaded the campaign&nbsp;to unseat Alexander Lukashenko, a novelty in Belarus’ male-dominated politics. When Svetlana Tikhanovskaya announced that her campaign would ally with those represented by Maria Kolesnikova and Veronika Tsepkalo, the three women held up hand symbols: a peace sign, a raised fist, and a heart. They quickly became a campaign symbol.

Andrew Roth

“I saw the atmosphere at Changes Square and thought it would be good to set something up for my own district,” said one of those present at the gathering last week. Others joined in, and now they form a small underground protest cell, one of thousands across Belarus.

Three months ago, hardly any of the people gathered took any interest in politics. They felt Lukashenko’s neo-Soviet authoritarianism did not affect their lives much. But things have changed quickly in Belarus, with a broad swath of the population developing political consciousness in a remarkably short time.

“At the first big protests there was a feeling of: ‘Wow, are we really allowed to do this?’ Then there was a feeling of total helplessness seeing that it was not working, and now we are doing all this organisation as a form of therapy,” said one man in his 30s, who is responsible for distributing opposition leaflets and newsletters to people’s apartments in the neighbourhood.

He has recruited a network of volunteers in each apartment block, as an intercom code is required to reach the letterboxes. “None of the carrier pigeons know who the others are, and why should they? I also don’t know the identities of the people who are printing the materials. It’s better that way, if they pick me up and start breaking my fingers, then I won’t be able to give anyone else up,” said one young man.

With thousands of people arrested in recent months, everyone here now takes precautions. When going to protest, they take rucksacks full of essentials in case they are arrested. Several say they wear two pairs of pants just in case – nobody wants to spend 15 days without a change of underwear.

As the protest mood refuses to be quashed, Lukashenko’s regime ploughs on with its grim crackdown. This week, some restaurants that joined a strike called by the opposition on Monday have been closed down, ostensibly on health and safety grounds, while Lukashenko has ordered universities to expel striking students. The dean of one university resigned, apparently unwilling to do so.

On Friday, Lukashenko said the regime would no longer “take prisoners” and would hunt down opponents even if they were hiding in private apartments. “If someone touches a serviceman, he should be left at minimum with no hands,” said Lukashenko, who has on occasion made suggestions he is ready for reform though his actions have suggested the opposite.

The district protest planners said for security reasons, they only communicated through encrypted Telegram chats, using accounts that were not linked to their phone numbers and registered under pseudonyms. Most of those gathered do not know each other’s full names, and only one of them knows who the Telegram channel administrators are.

Sometimes, the conspiratorial chatter last week could seem a little bit overdone. It was only a local Halloween party they were discussing, after all. But the caution turned out to be far from misplaced. In the days after the meeting, strange men arrived at the apartment of one of the channel’s administrators and rang the doorbell for 15 minutes.

She did not open the door, and waited for them to leave. Later, after other group members had done a sweep of the area and given the all clear, a friend picked her up and brought her away. Shortly afterwards, her landlord received a call from the authorities that they had a warrant to search the apartment. The rest of the group are now worried for their safety. Some of the details in this article have been left vague to protect their identities.

“I don’t know what charges I face or whether I can go back, I don’t know what to do at all,” the channel administrator whose flat was searched said, on a Telegram audio call from a safe location outside Belarus. “But I know one thing: I’m not giving up the fight.”





No.28 article:
Mexicans celebrate restricted Day of the Dead amid coronavirus upheaval

With tens of thousands dead, the commemoration of lost family members has rarely been more relevant as rituals of mourning have been disrupted 

José Porfirio Martínez Castro and his wife Nery Urioles Nájera were tidying up their family tomb at the municipal graveyard in Morelia. They built a small altar for two of José’s siblings and adorned it with marigolds, sugar skulls and tiny bottles of Coca-Cola – his sister’s favourite drink.

Normally, they would spend the night of 1 November here, lighting candles and remembering their loved ones. But this year the cemetery will be closed because of Covid-19 restrictions, so they made their visit a few days early.

“I never imagined doing this,” said Martínez, from the tomb’s shady portico. “Everything has changed in 2020.”

Oceans of marigolds still adorn Mexican boulevards, sugary pan de muerto is still on sale and images of skeletons decorate everything from store windows to billboards.

But the Covid-19 pandemic has upended Day of the Dead plans. The effusive celebrations of recent years – parades inspired by the James Bond movie Spectre and “mega” altars in town squares – have been cancelled or made virtual.

Cemeteries across the country have been ordered to close, forcing many families to mark the occasion at home. 

Mexico’s coronavirus death toll stands at around 90,000, but officials admit that the true figure may well be at least 50,000 higher.

The pandemic has shattered thousands of Mexican families – but it has also interrupted many of the country’s traditional ceremonies for commemorating the dead: churches have been closed; wakes cancelled; and communities unable to gather for novenas – prayers offered for nine consecutive days.

Families who have lost loved ones in the pandemic have also suffered a social stigma in a country where conspiracy theories over coronavirus and its transmission have swirled.

“They say it was diabetes, or they died of a heart attack … or it was kidney problems,” Father Raúl Vázquez, a Jesuit priest, said, describing how relatives of Covid victims refer to the cause of death. “They’re scared of being rejected by their neighbours.”

The inability to properly commemorate loved ones has left many Mexicans still searching for closure.

“Death has a festive side in Mexico. But there’s also a very human side of deep pain. And the pain of death during the pandemic hasn’t had a place to be expressed,” said Abraham Villavicencio, a gallery curator in Mexico City, who studies Day of the Dead.

As in other countries, coronavirus victims are often cremated instead of interred. Cemeteries have limited access, preventing large family funerals and the mariachi bands that traditionally accompany them.

When Sandra Águila’s husband, Raúl, died of Covid-19 in June, she received a box of ashes from the funeral home and watched via Facebook as a priest offered prayers for multiple pandemic victims.

“It was very cold, very devastating,” recalled Águila, in her home in the Xochimilco neighbourhood of Mexico City.

She still planned to construct an altar on Sunday night, but will keep it small and adorned with simple items: fruit, chocolate skulls with her husband’s name and calabaza en dulce – a traditional dish of pumpkin cooked in syrup.

“Money’s pretty tight,” said Águila, a teacher. “This festival was always so beautiful, but it’s going to be pretty quiet this year.”

Águila’s community of San Gregorio Atlapulco, is famed for its marigolds, which have been grown on manmade islands known as chinampas since pre-Columbian times. Normally they are harvested in time for the Day of the Dead, but this season, sales have crashed, leaving greenhouses full of rotting flowers.

“We used to sell everything and prices would increase as the Day of the Dead approached,” said flower farmer Roberto de los Santos, who figured his sales would plunge 60% this year.

In recent years, the Day of the Dead has become big business in some parts of Mexico. Michoacán, a state to the west of Mexico City, drew thousands of tourists to sites such as the island of Janitzio where the indigenous Purépecha people celebrate rites with boats full of flowers and candles.

“We broke records in 2019,” boasted Roberto Monroy, the tourism secretary in Morelia, the state capital. “We also broke records in 2020 – just the wrong records,” he added.

Some 55,000 visited the city’s municipal graveyard last Day of the Dead. This year, the cemetery was closed on 30 October.

Beforehand, long lines formed outside as people armed with buckets and brooms and clutching bouquets of marigolds waited to decorate their relatives’ graves. Only two people per family were allowed in; children, musicians and fresh food for offerings were banned.

“It’s sort of sad, just like all of this year,” said Karla Tejada, a jewellery seller, as she placed marigold petals on the grave of two uncles, along with a bottle each of Coca-Cola and Victoria beer.

“It will be different, but we’ll celebrate at home,” she said.





No.29 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Cardinal Vincent Nichols says he has seen no evidence to justify ban on services 

Faith leaders showed signs of dissent over new restrictions on religious worship announced by Boris Johnson, with the leader of the Catholic church in England and Wales saying he had “not yet seen any evidence” to justify the ban on services.

An organisation of imams also called for mosques to be permitted to remain open, saying they had provided valuable support to communities in recent months. 

Under measures coming into effect on Thursday, acts of collective worship will be forbidden though individual private prayer is permitted. Funerals will still take place with a maximum of 30 attending, but weddings will only be permitted in exceptional circumstances.

Religious leaders will be able to broadcast acts of worship from churches, mosques, synagogues and temples, and public services such as food banks may still be run from these premises.

The ban on communal services is likely to have a disproportionate impact on faiths that have little tradition of individual private prayers, including Islam and Judaism.

Responding to the lockdown announcement, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the Catholic archbishop of Westminster, said it was “a source of deep anguish” that the government was banning public communal worship.

“Whilst we understand the many difficult decisions facing the government, we have not yet seen any evidence whatsoever that would make the banning of communal worship, with all its human costs, a productive part of combatting the virus. We ask the government to produce this evidence that justifies the cessation of acts of public worship.”

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The government had “a profound responsibility to show why it has taken particular decisions,” he said, adding: “Not doing so risks eroding the unity we need as we enter a most difficult period for our country.”

Qari Muhammad, chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board, said the ban on communal prayer in places of worship was disheartening. The Muslim community was seeking “limited communal prayer in mosques which is effectively individuals praying in unison following social distancing measures,” he added.

“The fundamental difference between mosques and some other places of worship is that mosques are first and foremost used for communal prayer.”

Throughout the pandemic, mosques supported people in need and mobilised volunteers in their neighbourhoods, he said. “Much of this work is sustained by communal prayer. We believe the continued running of mosques with all the necessary precautions is vital for the wellbeing of all communities.” 

Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, tweeted: “This is harder than the first wave – let’s be calm, compassionate and courageous … And may God guide our leaders in these tough decisions.”

Faith communities will be anxious about religious festivals that fall in the next few weeks. Diwali, the festival of lights celebrated by Hindus, Sikhs and Jains, begins on 14 November and usually lasts five days.

The eight-day Jewish festival of Hanukkah begins on 10 December, after the national lockdown is due to end. However, politicians and scientists are warning the measures may be extended after 2 December.

Christmas carol and nativity services are also likely to be cancelled if the lockdown restrictions continue into December. Many cathedrals that rely on visitor income and Christmas events will be braced for further falls in revenue and job losses.

During the first national lockdown earlier this year, faith leaders moved worship online, streaming services and other acts of collective worship, and hosting Zoom prayers.

callout-coronavirus

More than 17,000 services and events at Church of England churches have been posted online, according to a report published in October. The C of E has also been broadcasting and streaming national weekly services since the start of the pandemic.

Stephen Cottrell, the archbishop of York, said: “At a time when many have felt isolated and fearful, Church of England parishes and clergy have broadcast thousands of online church services and events, seeking to bring comfort and hope to their communities.

“We know that tens of thousands of those tuning in will never have had contact with their local Church of England parish before and may never have heard the Christian message. Their welcome presence is a sign of the great hunger we all have for spiritual meaning in our lives.”





No.30 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Minister says lockdown could last longer if infection rate has not fallen sufficiently

The England-wide lockdown announced by Boris Johnson on Saturday could be extended beyond 2 December if the infection rate does not fall sufficiently, Michael Gove has said.

When the prime minister announced the new measures in a Saturday night press conference, he said they would end on 2 December. But Gove told Sky News’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday programme the measures would be reviewed at the end of the period and could last longer if they had not done enough to contain the spread of the virus.

“We’ve got this four-week period, during which we’re going to review progress, but of course we’ll always be driven by the data,” Gove said. “We will always take a decision in the national interest, based on evidence.” Pressed on whether that meant the measures could be extended, he said “yes”.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The new lockdown marked a sharp reversal from Johnson’s repeated rejections of Labour’s calls for a “circuit-breaker” shutdown.

The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, claimed the government’s delay in implementing a lockdown had been economically and socially damaging.

“An earlier lockdown would have been better for health, better for the NHS and better for the economy,” he told Marr. Starmer promised Labour would support the new measures when they were voted on by the House of Commons on Wednesday.

Johnson has in recent weeks faced protests from Tory backbenchers sceptical about the necessity for tougher restrictions. Gove’s admission that the lockdown may need to last longer was echoed by Sir Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust and a member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage).

Farrar told BBC One’s The Andrew Marr Show that the 2 December review date was “useful”, but the government should not become fixed on it. “We don’t know what the situation is going to be like in the last week of November and the first week of December, we all hope that four weeks is going to be enough,” he said.

If infections, hospital admissions and other key metrics had not fallen sufficiently, he said, “it would be much better to extend this lockdown for another couple of weeks prior to the Christmas period and then loosen the restrictions a little bit over Christmas so that people can meet up with their families”.

“Much better to do that than remove these restrictions and then have to impose even more draconian restrictions over Christmas or soon into the new year.”

Farrar also questioned whether schools – in particular secondary schools, which some studies have suggested play a role in transmission – might need to be closed in future to make a shutdown more effective. But Gove stressed the government’s determination to ensure schools remain open – a view echoed by Starmer, whose circuit breaker call did not include closing schools.

Farrar suggested the regional approach to managing the disease, which involved local deals painstakingly assembled with leaders in Greater Manchester, Liverpool and elsewhere, was likely to give way to nationwide rules.

callout-coronavirus

However, Gove said ministers were keen to retain the ability to impose regional restrictions, to control regional outbreaks in future. “The regional approach is one that wherever possible we want to take,” he said.

Challenged by Marr about whether the government had made a mistake in failing to implement a lockdown when advised to do so by its own scientific advisers in September – when Starmer was also calling for it – Gove said it was too soon to say.

“I think it is impossible to know definitively until the end of this pandemic, which were the mistakes, and which were the missteps, which were most serious, and something that looks like a mistake at a certain point can actually in retrospect with more evidence have been proven to have been right,” he said.





No.31 article:
Cubans lose access to vital dollar remittances after latest US sanctions

Cuba closes Western Union offices after US blacklists a military-controlled firm that processes payments from Cubans abroad

Dayane Medina, a 30-year old mother, had been due to pick up the equivalent of $65 that her grandmother in Jacksonville, Florida, sent her this week.

“I don’t like asking her for money – she is too generous,” she blushed, confessing that her grandmother sometimes sells food stamps to raise money. “But I’m not working at the moment and my husband is a doctor – we can’t get by on his [$62 a month] salary.”

But Dayane, her husband and their two young children may be forced to find a way.

This week, Cuba announced the closure of more than 400 Western Union offices on the island, a move that will eliminate most remittances and aggravate the country’s profound economic crisis.

The decision was a reaction to new US sanctions: in June the Trump administration blacklisted Fincimex, a military-controlled firm that processes remittances for Western Union. Last week, the treasury department banned US companies from dealing with Fincimex altogether.

The secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said the US measure aimed to cut the Cuban military out of remittances so as to deny “the regime its misappropriated resources”.

Sanctioning Fincimex effectively dared the Communist party to shift remittance processing from a military to civilian-controlled entity. But the Cuban foreign ministry issued a defiant statement saying the island’s financial set-up was a “sovereign decision”.

Fincimex, it argued, has processed remittances for more than 20 years and during that period not “a single cent” had gone missing.

These are “the cruellest and most inhumane measures yet taken by the Trump administration against the Cuban people”, said Ric Herrero, executive director of the Cuba Study Group, a Washington thinktank that advocates for engagement with Cuba. “Family remittances are a vital lifeline for millions of Cubans, especially the elderly and other vulnerable citizens.”

Remittances, most from Cuban Americans, channel more than $3bn a year into Cuba’s ailing economy. Though data on Cuba’s foreign exchange flows is sparse, family remittances are probably the island’s third source of hard currency after tourism and the export of medical services.

The measure will reduce revenue for Gaesa, an opaque military conglomerate whose role in the Cuban economy has grown over the last decade. But it will also leave the state with less hard currency to import food and medicine. Since Covid, Cubans have had to spend hours queueing to buy food like chicken. Many vital medicines, which Cuba provides at symbolic prices, are missing.

The measure will also hit the island’s fledgling private sector.

“Entrepreneurs use remittances to buy inputs and to invest, so many will have to suspend business,” said Emily Morris, an economist from University College London. “Lots of remittances are spent on services provided by other Cubans in both registered private businesses and informal activities. They are therefore an important source of income and employment.”

The crackdown on remittances was the last in a string of moves by the Trump administration to crush the island’s economy. It has sanctioned tankers carrying Venezuelan petroleum that dock on the island, a measure which has reduced food production by forcing farmers to till fields with oxen instead of tractors.

US diplomats have threatened Latin American countries not to accept Cuban doctors and nurses during the pandemic. In recent months sanctions have prevented masks and ventilators from reaching the island.

Analysts agree this onslaught of new sanctions is primarily an electoral gambit to win votes in Florida. Behind in the polls, Trump will probably have to carry the country’s largest swing state – home to 1.5 million Cuban Americans – if he is to win next week. Polls show that Trump is enjoying huge support among Cuban Americans.

“Trump’s Cuba advisers believe that cutting off all hard currency inflows into the country will both precipitate regime change and help Trump’s electoral chances in south Florida,” said Herrero. “It’s completely asymmetric: they benefit from the rhetorical lift, and if they punish people on the island it doesn’t matter because they are still seen as tightening the screw.”





No.32 article:
Antarctica is Earth&#x27;s one virus-free continent: science fights to keep it that way

The giant land is the only place on Earth not touched by Covid. A British team is on a mission to protect it while also doing vital research

This week, 40 men and women will emerge from quarantine and board the Royal Research Ship James Clark Ross as it prepares to sail from Harwich in Essex to the South Atlantic. Their mission is straightforward. They will attempt to salvage scientific operations in Antarctica while also keeping it Covid-free.

The continent is the only place on Earth that is still untouched by the pandemic – though keeping the virus at bay there has come at a cost. All major research projects in the Antarctic have been halted. As a result, no senior British scientist will have embarked on a mission to the continent this year for the first time in decades.

Nor is Britain alone in interrupting research in a region viewed as vital for studying climate change and biodiversity loss. Most other nations that send scientists there are also putting their research on hold because of the pandemic.

“The problem is that we simply do not have the logistical support to get scientists to the Antarctic while ensuring that we can keep them Covid-free,” said Jane Francis, director of the British Antarctic Survey (BAS). “However, we are going to maintain all our data monitoring so there will be no gaps in our long-term collection of weather data, ice-sheet information and wildlife statistics. That is going to be a vitally important undertaking.”

And it will be up to the men and women who will set sail from Harwich on 5 November to ensure that these minimum scientific operations are maintained in Antarctica and crucial data collection is carried out. In addition, equipment will be serviced and made ready for the re-starting of research missions next year or later.

The James Clark Ross will be carrying technicians, divers, field guides and other service personnel so that they can collect data, maintain and run instruments and gather biological samples in the months ahead.

Ensuring they arrive free of coronavirus has required extraordinary efforts by the BAS. “Our key principal is to stop Covid getting to Antarctica,” said the survey’s head of polar operations, John Eager.

“To do that, we have picked only very fit and healthy staff who have no Covid risk factors. Then we have quarantined them for 14 days. And on top of that, we have made sure the ship will not enter any port en route so there is no further risk of picking up the virus. It will sail directly to our research stations around Antarctica.”

These efforts have been undertaken not because there is any symbolic importance in keeping Antarctica free of coronavirus, added Francis. “We are being very, very careful about keeping the continent virus-free simply because if anybody were to become really sick in Antarctica, it would be very difficult to treat them.”

It will take the James Clark Ross about eight weeks to reach the British Antarctic Survey’s main station at Rothera – via its other research centres at Signy Island in the South Orkneys, and at Bird Island and King Edward Point, both in South Georgia. Summer will be starting by then. Indeed, at Rothera, sea ice has already begun to melt as the weather warms.

“Wildlife has started to return to the station, with elephant seals and Adélie penguins already making appearances,” Robert Taylor, a field guide based at Rothera, told the Observer last week. “Normally, scientists would be flying in now and we would be preparing to take them out on the projects they would have planned. But those have all been postponed. It has become very quiet here.”

The decision to cut back on Antarctic operations is a blow for many areas of research, in particular climate science. The most dramatic changes inflicted by global heating are occurring at the poles. In Antarctica, warming waters are eating at many of the great ice shelves that extend from the land over the ocean and melting them, a development that threatens to trigger significant rises in sea levels round the planet in coming years.

“We desperately need to carry out full research programmes in Antarctica,” said Francis. “It has so much to tell us, and hopefully we will be able to pick up where we left off in a year’s time and return with large numbers of scientists. Then we can resume all the projects that we have had to postpone. Obviously that cannot be guaranteed, and we may have to postpone things for another year. We will just have to wait and see what happens.”

The James Clark Ross is scheduled to return to Britain in March, bringing home those who have spent the past 12 months on the continent. They will be coming back to a nation that has changed dramatically in that time, raising serious concerns for their future.

“Most of us left jobs to come to Antarctica – with the assumption that when we got back things would be fairly similar to when we left. It’s clear that this will not be the case,” said Taylor. “In one way, we have been fortunate because we are currently at no risk of Covid and can interact with one another in the pre-Covid fashion.”

That will change when Rothera and other station staff get back to the UK, Taylor acknowledged. “Normally, going home would mean regaining every freedom we sacrificed to come south, but this time it means swapping the natural restrictions of Antarctica for the ‘new normal’: social distancing, masks, adjusting our travel and behaviour. For good measure, there will be the added challenge of trying to see friends and family again and, of course, of finding work.”

The British Antarctic Survey has five main research centres on and around the continent.

Rothera is the BAS’s main research station. It has a small airport and is situated on Adelaide Island, west of the Antarctic Peninsula. Staff include engineers, electricians, a dive officer, a chef and a doctor.

Bird Island, South Georgia, is a centre for research into bird and seal biology. Lying off the north-west tip of South Georgia, it is considered to be one of the richest wildlife sites in the world.

King Edward Point, also on South Georgia, is a marine research station that plays a key role in monitoring the South Atlantic’s fisheries.

Signy Island, South Orkney, has a research station where studies of the Antarctic ecosystem are carried out. Gentoo, Adélie and chinstrap penguins breed there as do southern giant petrels, brown skuas and Antarctic tern.

Halley research station is currently only occupied in summer. The rest of the year it is run remotely. It is a key centre for observing climate change. Measurements taken here led to the discovery in 1985 of a massive hole in the Earth’s ozone layer. There is also a major colony of emperor penguins near the base.







No.33 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Andy Burnham and Steve Rotherham say furlough extension shows government values northern workers less 

Northern leaders have accused the government of valuing their region’s workers less than those in the south after extending the 80% furlough for the national lockdown but refusing to do the same for northerners last month.

The mayors of Greater Manchester and the Liverpool city region, which were among the first parts of the country to be subject to tier 3 restrictions, expressed anger at Westminster’s “differential” treatment of workers in the north of England at a press conference on Sunday.

“This morning millions of people woke up knowing the prime minister of this country believes the north is worth less than the south,” Steve Rotheram, the Liverpool city region mayor, said. “Quite frankly, the government has treated us with contempt again.”

Announcing England’s month-long shutdown on Saturday night, Boris Johnson extended the furlough scheme until December, with the government paying 80% of workers’ wages.

But last month, the government had been “unequivocal” in refusing to stump up more than two-thirds of the pay of hospitality workers across the north whose businesses were forced to close under tier 3 measures, Rotheram told the conference.

The mayor added that “red wall” areas would not be “fooled” into electing the Conservatives again. “I can assure the government that the people of the north won’t easily forget that they were judged to be worth less than their southern counterparts,” he said.

Andy Burnham, the mayor of Greater Manchester, called for an end to the government’s “differential treatment” of people on low wages and “people in the north versus people in the south”.

Talks between Burnham and the government collapsed 12 days ago over a difference of £5m – less than £2 for each of Greater Manchester’s 2.8 million residents – after the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, refused to pay tier 3 furlough at 80%.

Sunak tweeted the news of his change of heart on Saturday night, prompting Burnham to respond: “But when we asked you to do that for the lowest-paid people in the north, you refused. People here will remember that.”

At the conference, Burnham added that people in the region had “just completed three months of morale-sapping restrictions, and now they are waking up to the prospect of a month of even tougher restrictions”.

“I honestly don’t believe that is understood in Westminster, that already, people have been ground down by the restrictions they have been living under, and they need to understand that before we go any further forward,” he said.

Burnham also called for work to be done on a “substantial localisation” of the test-and-trace system, for self-employed people to be financially supported and for schools to close for two weeks for a “true circuit break”.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

The Cabinet Office minister, Michael Gove, rejected the accusations of differential treatment, saying it was fair to offer more now because the national restrictions were more onerous. Gove told BBC One’s Andrew Marr Show he had “huge respect” for Rotheram but that “workers, whether they are in the north or in the south are being asked, families are being asked, to do more than was the case even in tier 3 areas”.

He said those offered two-thirds furlough last month could have topped up their wages to 80% or more with universal credit.

Anger and frustration was building across the north of England on Sunday, particularly from pub landlords who had spent time and money rushing to offer “substantial meals” to comply with restrictions, who will now have to shut on Thursday regardless.

There was particular frustration in West Yorkshire, which reluctantly agreed on Thursday to go into tier 3.

Pubs were due to shut in the region on Monday, with some working round the clock to find a way to stay open by serving “substantial meals” and effectively operating as a restaurant. But now they must close on Thursday but can stay open until then, after tier 3 was cancelled for West Yorkshire.

In Bradford, Daniel Horsman, a pub landlord, had spent Saturday making 150 pies he hoped to sell to every customer next week with their pints. He has run the Jacob’s Well since 2018 and complains of having to “completely redesign my business model every few weeks when the government changes its mind”.

There have been seven different rule changes since he was able to reopen in July. “It’s been bloody knackering,” he said, admitting there were times he considered shutting completely. “It has been extremely frustrating and I do feel angry at the way this has all been orchestrated, with late-night, last-minute changes.”

He does not know whether he will be able to stay open during the lockdown by offering takeaway pies, saying it will not make financial sense if doing so would disqualify him for any business grant.

callout-coronavirus

In a statement, West Yorkshire council leaders said: “Following several days of intense discussions with ministers about the introduction of new restrictions in West Yorkshire, we are frustrated and angry about the government’s timing, handling and communications around the plans for a national lockdown.

“Firstly, for our residents and businesses, we must clear up understandable confusion: the region will now NOT be moving into tier 3 (very high) measures on Monday as planned; we will remain in tier 2 (high) restrictions, and then follow the national measures from Thursday 5 November until Wednesday 2 December.

“The residents and businesses of West Yorkshire had only just begun to prepare for tier 3 measures to hit on Monday, and they are now having to change their plans once again.

“We have worked hard over the last few days to advocate for the people and businesses of West Yorkshire. It is imperative that government now honours the financial commitments made to the people and businesses of the region during these discussions in writing again now.”





No.34 article:
Police seal off area and make an arrest after Greek Orthodox cleric is seriously hurt in Lyon shotgun attack

French police were hunting a gunman who shot and seriously injured a Greek Orthodox priest in the city of Lyon yesterday afternoon.

The latest attack came two days after a terrorist killed three people at a church in Nice and two weeks after the beheading of a high school teacher.

Police and soldiers immediately sealed off Lyon’s 7th arrondissement in the hunt for the gunman and later made an arrest. The priest, said to be a Greek national aged 52, was closing the church when the man armed with a sawn-off shotgun fired at him several times, hitting him twice in the stomach.

French TV is reporting that it seems to be a “personal dispute”. Police are saying they are looking at all motives, but are advising journalists not to jump to conclusions that the incident is “terror” linked, despite the tensions and high level of alert in France.

On Saturday, French anti-terrorist police were still questioning three men in connection with the Nice attack as they tried to piece together the killer’s movements and establish if he had accomplices.

A man, aged 47, who was taken into police custody hours after the attack on Thursday and was reported to have been in contact with knifeman Brahim Issaoui the previous day, is still being held. Investigators gave no more details of the arrests of two other men aged 33 and 35.

Issaoui, a 21-year-old Tunisian who killed the three people at the city’s Notre Dame basilica, remains in a serious condition in hospital after being shot by police inside the church. Issaoui was originally named as Aouissaoui based on an Italian Red Cross document he was carrying, but his correct identity was confirmed by his family at Bou Hajla near Sfax in Tunisia.

Over the weekend, shocked and grieving locals continued to lay flowers outside the Notre Dame de l’Assomption basilica. In the crowds, one woman’s cry rose like a collective wail: “Why us? Why us again?”

It was a sentiment echoed across France. The Nice killings hit a country already reeling from the beheading of a history teacher outside his high school near Paris less than two weeks before. Samuel Paty, 47, had shown pupils two caricatures of the prophet Muhammad as part of a discussion on free speech. The reprinting of the Charlie Hebdo cartoons has provoked a wave of anti-French protests in Islamic countries, and France has been on high alert.

On Saturday, President Emmanuel Macron tried to calm anti-French protests in a 55-minute interview with Al Jazeera. Macron said he “understands the feelings of Muslims about the caricatures” of the prophet. “The caricatures are not a government project but rather the product of free and independent newspapers that are not affiliated with the government.”

He added: “I think the reactions were due to lies and misrepresentation and because people think I am in favour of these caricatures.”

As the government began expelling individuals and disbanding organisations it accused of fostering “Islamism” – which in French is understood to mean “Islamist fundamentalism” – in the wake of Paty’s murder on 16 October, the terrorist attack in Nice came as a further kick to a country that was still down. Hours later, a stringent new national Covid-19 lockdown came into effect adding to a sense of dejection.

The despondency was particularly acute in Nice. In five years, the Riviera city has suffered three terrorist attacks. In February 2015, three soldiers patrolling outside a Jewish community centre in Nice were wounded by a man vowing allegiance to Islamic State. In 2016, a terrorist drove a lorry into crowds celebrating Bastille Day, killing 86 and injuring 458.

Last week had started with Turkey and France trading verbal blows and anti-Macron protests after the French president insisted that newspapers and magazines like Charlie Hebdo had the right to publish contested caricatures. By midweek, it was, according to the interior minister, Gérard Darmanin, “a war”, not of words but of ideologies. Then came Nice.

A lone candle on the granite pavement next to a small bunch of primroses marked the spot where 44-year-old Simone Barreto Silva collapsed from her knife wounds. It was here, at the Unik kebab shop, while being tended to by paramedics, that she uttered her final words: “Tell my children I love them.”

Michel Atiah, head waiter at the neighbouring Le Socrate restaurant, described Silva as the life and soul of the party. “She was a lovely woman and very popular in the neighbourhood.”

Another regular at Le Socrate was Vincent Loquès, the church sexton, who died inside the basilica. “We often saw him. Vincent was a lovely, gentle man who used to eat here regularly.

“This is a mixed community – I am originally from Syria. We all deplore this action. Nice has been rocked by what happened yesterday and by what happened on the seafront four years ago. But it is important to remember that these are lone wolves, not representative of the Islamic community.”

On Saturday, the killer’s first victim was named as 60-year-old Nadine Devillers. “She often went to pray for people she loved. From time to time she lit a candle. She was someone who loved others, gave everything for others,” her friend Joëlle Guichard told Nice-Matin newspaper.

Inevitably, the far right has called for expulsions and a moratorium on immigration from certain countries holding anti-French protests. Marine Le Pen has called the attacks “acts of war” requiring a warlike response. At a rally in Nice on Thursday night her supporters chanted for Muslims to “go home”, and in rue Alsace Lorraine near the basilica, protesters banged on the windows of a north African restaurant.

“That is not the intelligent approach to take,” said Nathalie, who works at the Brunet bakery in the same street. “Taking reprisals against innocent folk is not going to put right the act of a lone madman.”

She added: “Monsieur Loquès came here practically every day for his baguettes. He was a kind and gentle man. I don’t think we are in danger of being overwhelmed by hate, more of an explosion of anger. We must be wary of that.”

On Sunday, French soldiers, police and gendarmes will be dispatched to protect churches and other places of worship for the important Toussaint – All Saints – holiday.

In Trappes, south-west of Paris in the Yvelines – the department where Paty was killed – which has a large Muslim community officials and religious leaders will plant an olive tree outside the Catholic church.

Ali Rabeh, the mayor of Trappes, said it was a “symbolic gesture of solidarity” with the Catholic community. Rabeh has cautioned politicians against ramping up the rhetoric of war and stigmatising “the “99.9% of French Muslims who are calm, peaceful and don’t want to bother anyone”.

“The political atmosphere is becoming more and more accusatory. Each time there is an attack, ordinary Muslims feel the finger is being pointed at them, that they carry the weight of accusations,” Rabeh told the Observer. He said he was appalled to discover that his father, a Muslim who came to France from Morocco 50 years ago and had worked “to help build this country” for more than four decades, “now feels he has to lower his head when he goes shopping”.





No.35 article:
Louise Casey calls on the government for more help for the vulnerable as hunger and homelessness rise

The country is on course for a “perfect storm of awfulness” that will see rising homelessness, hungry children and poor families unable to cope unless the government rethinks its support for the most vulnerable, its former homelessness adviser has warned.

Dame Louise Casey, who led the government’s emergency programme to tackle rough sleeping earlier this year, warned that a series of economic pressures were now in danger of colliding. She said that while the campaign led by England and Manchester United footballer Marcus Rashford had provided hope, and she urged ministers to act.

“What we are facing here is a perfect storm of awfulness,” she told the Observer. “Everyone has been affected by Covid, millions have seen their income drop and even those who can weather that, are thinking twice. Rashford has pulled everyone together on the key and compassionate issue of making sure kids don’t go hungry or their parents don’t have to go hungry to feed them. The spirit of the Thursday clapping to show our support to the NHS and care workers lives on in his kind, honest leadership.

“The British public do really care. The rising levels of homelessness and [with] the reduction of universal credit on the horizon, it’s hard not to feel bleak about this winter. Rashford and those supporting his campaign give me hope. Now is not the time for political division and tribal loyalty – it’s the time to bring us all together again. The government needs to heed the mood of the country and take action now. Kids should not go hungry, people should not be on the streets and the elderly deserve only the best of care that we can give.”

Her intervention came as the head of the CBI called for the government not to ditch the £1,000 increase in the basic universal credit allowance due to be axed in April. In a rare move, Carolyn Fairbairn said “having a strong safety net is going to be absolutely vital” in the months ahead.

“A period of impoverishment in our country is unthinkable,” she said. “I think the idea that the £1,000 supplement would run out in March is something that should really be rethought. It’s also about fairness. There are going to be some people who have been kept in work through variations of the job support scheme, and others who are not so lucky. The gap between those two positions should not be so great.”

Fairbairn is also calling for a new National Commission for Economic Recovery, involving business, unions, government and civil society, to plan how to revive the economy in the aftermath of the virus.

Official figures last week revealed that there had been an increase in 16- to 25-year-olds sleeping rough in London between July and September, from 250 last year to 368. The previous quarter saw a similar 48% increase.

Pressure is still mounting on the government over child hunger. A coalition of more than 50 public health directors, healthcare professionals, charities and local government figures have signed a letter to chancellor Rishi Sunak in support of a key element of Rashford’s child poverty campaign. They demand a major expansion of the Healthy Start scheme, which gives young pregnant women and low-income families with young children free vitamins and food vouchers to purchase vegetables, fruit, pulses and milk.

They want the scheme to be enhanced and offered to more people, an increase in the value of vouchers and a publicity campaign to ensure it reaches those in need. “We are ready to help in whatever way we can,” they write. “We know that the nutrition and health of mothers and young children will have profound and life-long consequences for children’s futures. A fair start in life should be a key tenet of the government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda. Now is the time to act.”

A Department for Work and Pensions spokesperson said: “We are wholly committed to supporting the lowest paid families, boosting welfare support by £9.3bn in response to the pandemic as well as introducing income protection schemes, mortgage holidays and additional support for renters and constantly keep these measures under review.”





No.36 article:
Laeek Khan alleges he was duped by pair who even pretended to conjure up a genie

Two men who allegedly duped a doctor into buying an “Aladdin’s lamp” for more than £70,000 – even conjuring up a fake genie – have been arrested in India, according to officials.

Laeek Khan approached police in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh after he realised the lamp did not have any magical powers, as described in the popular folk tale about Aladdin and his wish-granting genie that appears when it is rubbed.

“The cheats had struck a deal for much more but the doctor had paid about 7m rupees (£72,000),” Amit Rai, a senior officer, told AFP. He said the men were arrested on Thursday and were remanded in custody ahead of charges being filed.

“The wife of one of these men was also involved in the fraud. She is on the run,” Rai said.

In his complaint, filed last Sunday, Khan said one of the men pretended to be an occultist and made a “jinn”, or supernatural figure, appear from the lamp, local media reported. But when Khan asked if he could touch the genie or take the lamp home, they refused, saying it might cause him harm, the complaint stated.

Eventually they sold the lamp to him, promising it would bring health, wealth and good fortune. Khan said he later realised the “genie” was actually just one of the men in disguise.

“The men have also cheated other families using the same modus operandi. The total amount of money involved runs into several million rupees,” Rai said.





No.37 article:
As Europe&#x27;s governments lose control of Covid, revolt is in the air

Fears of civil unrest grow as people across the continent no longer trust leaders to protect them during the crisis

As the second wave of Covid-19 filled hospital wards across Europe last week, and countries inched reluctantly towards varying degrees of partial lockdown, television schedules were cleared to allow leaders to address weary nations.

Announcing a 6pm curfew for the country’s restaurants and bars the Italian prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, called for national unity. “If we all respect these new rules during the month of November,” he said, “we will succeed in keeping the epidemiological curve under control. That way we will be able to ease the restrictions and move into the Christmas festivities with greater serenity.”

Speaking from the Elysée, a sombre Emmanuel Macron decreed a new national lockdown, lasting until at least 1 December, and warned France the new wave of infections was likely to be “deadlier than the first”. In Belgium, where Covid is spreading faster than in any other European country, the new prime minister, Alexander De Croo, hoped “a team of 11 million Belgians” would pull together to follow tighter regulations.

In tone and spirit, the messages echoed those delivered in March, when shock and fear led populations to rally round leaders and consent to restrictions unknown outside wartime. Eight months on, that kind of trust and goodwill is in short supply.

Europe, once again, is the centre of the global pandemic, accounting for almost half the world’s infections last week. But as desperately needed financial support fails to materialise, and track and trace systems fail to cope with the surge, there is public exasperation and, in some cases, open rebellion. On Friday evening, protestors threw molotov cocktails at police in Florence, in the latest outbreak of social unrest following Conte’s new rules.

Pino Esposito, a Neapolitan barber, is one of those who has lost faith in the orders coming from the top. In his home city, Esposito is leading a group of small businessmen in a campaign against the new restrictions. “We are protesting,” he says, “because all European governments, including ours, have found themselves unprepared for the second wave. Since March they were saying that, in October or November, the second wave would come and that it would be even more serious.

“But no preparation has been put in place for our schools, the health system, jobs, or the providing of incentives. And the financial support we were promised is not there to access. But businesses must have it if they are to stay closed and staff need unemployment money immediately.”

Across the continent, there is similar evidence of people facing dire economic hardship and psychological exhaustion. Earlier this month, a study from the World Health Organization reported widespread apathy and reduced motivation to follow public health guidance. The emotional toll of Covid-19 has been compounded by a growing scepticism in the capacity of governments to truly get on top of a crisis that is destroying people’s livelihoods as well as threatening their health.

According to the president of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, the continent’s partial economic recovery in the summer and early autumn was “unequal, uncertain and incomplete”. As the second wave hits, she said in a recent interview, “it now risks being extinguished.”

From Milan to Manchester, and Marseille to Madrid, that prospect has sparked a wave of revolts. After the spring lockdown was eased, the subsequent patchwork of regulations and restrictions hit some workers, and regions far harder than others. The Spanish government’s decision to declare a six-month state of emergency has led to angry protests across the country and a bitter row with the conservative regional government of Madrid, which has accused it of overstepping its powers.

The mayors of nine cities, including Barcelona, Lisbon, Prague and Milan, have by-passed their national governments to write directly to the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, demanding access to the €750bn (£676bn) EU recovery fund. In Germany, where a partial lockdown beginson Monday, thousands of workers and employers in the arts and hospitality industries marched in Berlin last week, demanding greater financial support. Freelancers across the continent have fallen through the cracks of state support for those unable to work.

In Italy, a tipping point appears to be disturbingly close. Angry demonstrations erupted in Naples just over a week ago, after a local curfew was imposed. The protests were followed by civil disorder in Milan and Turin, where luxury stores were looted. “I think this is only the beginning”, says the Italian journalist and author of Gomorrah, Roberto Saviano. “In the first lockdown, Italians were united in the idea that this was an wholly novel emergency; a situation that any government would find difficult to deal with. Now they feel deceived.

“They’ve been told that things were going well, that we were winning. But their savings have been used up, they can see the problems with a testing system that isn’t working, and there is confusion and disagreement between the scientists. People have started to lose faith in the capacity of institutions to save them.”

A poll following last week’s mini-riots found that over three-quarters of Italians believe there will be more violence in the streets this winter.

“There will be unrest across Europe too,” says Saviano. “It will happen in different ways and with different catalysts, but it will come because the centre isn’t holding any more. We are a world away from the mood in March when it was a case of ‘we must follow the rules and protect ourselves or we will perish.’ Now some people think, well, I’m going under anyway if I can’t survive economically.”

The geographer Christophe Guilluy, whose books have charted the growing social divisions between provincial and metropolitan France, is similarly pessimistic about sustaining a mood of unity. Over the summer, local leaders in Marseille complained bitterly that a nighttime curfew and mask regulations had been imposed from Paris without due consultation. Macron’s move to a new lockdown, believes Guilluy, is already creating new divisions, as those with sufficient means insulate themselves from the worst of what is to come. On Thursday evening, huge traffic jams built up as Parisians attempted to flee the capital and head for second homes before a 9pm curfew. “The Parisians who have fled to their second homes,” he says “are running the risk of infecting inhabitants of provincial and rural areas. They have been very badly received.

“Inequalities between classes and between regions have been exacerbated by the pandemic. The truth is, social and cultural tensions have rarely been so acute in France, but the political classes are attempting to mask them by appealing to a sense of republican unity.”

Political rivalries and ambitions that pre-date the pandemic are also complicating the response to the second wave. In Belgium – where overwhelmed hospitals in Liège have asked Covid-positive medical staff to keep working – concerted action was stymied by high-profile disputes between politicians from the Flemish-speaking north and the Francophone south. The country has now locked down until mid-December. But the minister-president of Flanders, Jan Jambon, had previously claimed tough action was necessary only in Wallonia. By the time of his U-turn last week, 600,000 Belgians were believed to be spreading the virus.

“From May through June and right up until recently, you have seen a growing polarisation of opinion in public debate,” says Dave Sinardet, a political scientist from Saint-Louis University in Brussels. “The virologists would push for tougher measures, but there was a growing lobby for keeping the economy more open. So in September, when the infection rate was rising sharply, there was still a reduced level of restrictions. There’s a lot of criticism of the people who were giving that advice.”

The obvious failure of the country’s track and trace system is contributing to a sense of disillusionment with the management of the crisis. “There is frustration and a feeling that businesses such as cafes and restaurants did a lot, and the government didn’t do enough,” says Sinardet.

Boris Johnson will on Thursday add England to the list of European nations shutting down for a second time. According to Germany’s finance minister, Olaf Scholz: “November will be the month of truth”, in the battle against the second wave of Covid. But the indicators are that the struggle could go either way. The pace and intensity of the surge in infections has taken governments by surprise and left them looking unprepared. Public buy-in to a renewed lockdown, may need a step-change in the level of support and solidarity governments are prepared to offer. The financial cost will be enormous, but the price of inaction could be much higher.

In a column for La Stampa last week, the philosopher and former mayor of Venice, Massimo Cacciari, wrote: “A social crisis has been added to the public health one… [the crisis] is creating differences in income and living conditions which are completely incompatible with what we mean by a ‘democracy’. Are we aware of this? Up to now, I don’t think so. But there isn’t a moment to lose.”

The stakes were dramatically high before the first lockdown in March. They may be even higher now.

Additional reporting by Angela Giuffrida





No.38 article:
Rules will shut pubs, cafes and non-vital shops, while local reviews will take place after a four-week period

Boris Johnson performed an extraordinary U-turn on Saturday as he unveiled new month-long national lockdown measures across England, amid accusations that government indecision and delay will cost lives and livelihoods across the country.

With immediate warnings of the grave economic fallout and a mounting backlash among Tory MPs, the prime minister announced that a series of measures would come into force on Thursday to combat growing Covid infections. They will remain in place until 2 December.

Under the new measures non-essential shops and venues, as well as pubs and restaurants, will be closed. Schools, colleges and universities will remain open. The public will be told only to leave home for specific reasons, such as work if they cannot work from home, to shop for food and essentials, exercise, medical appointments or caring for the vulnerable.

The vulnerable and those over 60 are being advised to be especially careful and minimise their social contacts, but there will be no return of a formal request to shield themselves. Government insiders said the “time-limited” measures would then see a return to a regionalised approach.

In another major reversal, the original furlough scheme under which the state paid 80% of workers’ wages will be extended for the duration of the new lockdown. Ministers had been resisting an extension of the scheme. The move angered regional leaders who had been pleading for extra support for weeks. Mark Drakeford, the Welsh first minister, said the Treasury had refused to extend furlough when Wales’ “firebreak” lockdown began.

At a press conference, the prime minister said that he had decided to reimpose a national lockdown because “we could see deaths running at several thousand a day”. The virus, he said “is spreading even faster than the reasonable worst-case scenario of our scientific advisers”. He added: “The risk is that for the first time in our lives, the NHS will not be there for us and for our families.”

His chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said the data painted “a very grim picture”. Deaths over the winter, he warned, could be “twice as bad or more than the first wave”.

The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) had called for a “short period of lockdown” five and a half weeks ago, but was rebuffed. At that stage, the UK was averaging 4,964 new cases per day, with 1,502 Covid patients in hospital and 28 deaths. Yesterday, there were 21,915 more cases across the UK, more than 10,000 Covid patients in hospital and 326 deaths.

Johnson said he still believed a regional approach had been “the right thing to do”. However, he said the government had to be “humble in the face of nature”. He said that taking no further action would lead to the NHS being overwhelmed, with doctors and nurses being forced to choose “who would live and who would die”.

“Christmas is going to be different this year, perhaps very different,” he said. “But it’s my sincere hope that by taking tough action now we can allow families across the country to be together.” He said while the lockdown was not as strict as in the spring, the “basic message is the same: stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives.”

The move comes less than two weeks after Johnson accused Labour of attempting to “turn the lights out” following Keir Starmer’s endorsement of a circuit-breaker lockdown timed to overlap with half term. It is also an admission that the three-tier system in England, designed to contain local outbreaks, has failed .

Starmer said that the government’s delay in imposing a lockdown will come “at an economic cost and a human cost” and that the government had resisted scientific calls for it since September. He said it was unfair to pretend to the public that Christmas “will be normal”.

“I don’t think Christmas will be normal and I think we need to level with the public on that,” he said. 

Johnson revealed the measures after presenting his cabinet with dire data warning that the NHS could surpass its fixed and surge bed capacity by the first week of December, even after elective procedures are cancelled. Ministers were told the growth in this virus is national, and quicker in areas with lower case rates. A Commons vote on the measures will be held on Wednesday. Tory MPs are demanding an urgent improvement of the test-and-trace system to ensure the “nightmare” of the new measures is not needed again.

There is also private anger among the government’s scientific advisers, who say that concerns about exceeding the reasonable worst-case scenarios had been known about for weeks. Insiders expressed concerns about the government’s unwillingness to do anything seen as unpopular, adding that restrictions now had to be more severe and longer than would have been the case with earlier action. 

Ministers are already being warned a second national lockdown would hit the economy with the same force as the recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis. Industry experts said retailers and hospitality businesses, many already teetering on the brink, would join a growing queue of businesses filing for bankruptcy without further government support. The TUC general secretary Frances O’Grady said: “The extension of the furlough scheme is long overdue and necessary, but ministers must do more to protect jobs and prevent poverty.” Thousands of self-employed were said to be facing “financial calamity” without more support, according to the Association of Independent Professionals and the Self-Employed.

Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, said health service figures had been dismayed by the handling of the new lockdown plans. He said NHS trust leaders learning of the lockdown plans from newspaper reports had concluded the government’s actions were “not quick enough, decisive or clear”.

Neil Ferguson, the Imperial College London professor whose modelling still informs the government, said urgent research was taking place into whether schools and universities could continue to function as at present, given the role teenagers could be playing in the transmission of the virus.

Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium, said retailers were now facing a “nightmare before Christmas”, adding that there were “no circumstances” in which any retail premises should have to close in a second national lockdown. “It will cause untold damage to the high street in the run-up to Christmas, cost countless jobs, and permanently set back the recovery of the wider economy, with only a minimal effect on the transmission of the virus,” she said.

Sir Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust and a senior figure on Sage who had pushed for additional measures, said that the lockdown was right and warned that the lockdown should probably be imposed for the next two months. “If we can steel ourselves now for a few weeks of greater restrictions, there’s a chance we could ease up a little between Christmas and new year without the virus getting out of control,” he said yesterday.

Many scientists remained angry that the government has taken so long in heeding their advice. “Yet again, the UK has been slow to act and delayed decisive action until the last moment,” said Stephen Griffin, associate professor at Leeds University’s School of Medicine.





No.39 article:
Rescue workers found the man some 34 hours after the quake struck Turkey and Greece, killing at least 51

Rescue workers have extricated a 70-year-old man from a collapsed building in western Turkey, some 34 hours after a strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea struck Turkey and Greece, killing at least 51 and injuring more than 900 people.

Ahmet Citim was pulled out from the rubble in Izmir shortly after midnight Sunday and taken to hospital. Health minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted that the man said: “I never lost my hope.”

Search-and-rescue teams continued work in nine buildings in Izmir as day broke on Sunday. AFAD said more than 5,700 personnel from state agencies, municipalities and non-governmental organisations had been activated for rescue work and hundreds of others for food distribution, psycho-social help and building damage control.

“If they are alive, we have high chance to get to them for 72 hours,” vice president Fuat Oktay told journalists. “God willing, it will be like that.”

Dogs, cats and rabbits were also rescued from the debris.

Turkey’s disaster and emergency management service, or AFAD, raised the death toll in Izmir, Turkey’s third-largest city, to 49, as rescuers pulled more bodies out of toppled buildings.

Two teenagers also died in the quake on Friday on the Greek island of Samos and at least 19 others were injured.

The quake, which the Istanbul-based Kandilli Institute said had a magnitude of 6.9, was centred in the Aegean northeast of Samos. AFAD said it measured 6.6 and hit at a depth of some 16km (10 miles).

A small tsunami was triggered in the Seferihisar district of Izmir, drowning one elderly woman. The tremors were felt across western Turkey, in Istanbul, as well as the Greek capital, Athens. Hundreds of aftershocks followed.

AFAD said 896 people were injured in Turkey.

Turkey is crossed by fault lines and is prone to earthquakes. In 1999, two powerful quakes killed some 18,000 people in northwestern Turkey. Earthquakes are frequent in Greece as well.

In a show of solidarity rare in recent months of tense bilateral relations, Greek and Turkish government officials issued mutual messages of support for the past two days. Turkey, which saw more fatalities and damage, thanked other countries and international organisations for their statements of support.

The quake occurred as Turkey was already struggling with an economic downturn and the coronavirus pandemic. So far, more than 10,000 people with the virus have died in Turkey.





No.40 article:
Bagpipes and techno blast at Warsaw pro-choice march, but menace lurks

Women’s rights protesters incensed by the country’s strict new laws clash with rightwing gangs in the Polish capital

It was a surreal sight – and a terrible sound. On Friday evening, as tens of thousands of pro-choice protesters gathered in Warsaw for a massive demonstration against a near-total ban on abortion, military police in red berets formed a protective cordon around the Church of the Holy Cross on Krakowskie Przedmieście, an elegant thoroughfare leading from Warsaw’s Old Town to the city centre.

Behind the military cordon stood far-right activists and supporters of Poland’s ruling rightwing Law and Justice party (PiS), responding to a call by PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński to “defend Polish churches” from what government-controlled state television news describes as the “leftist fascism destroying Poland” after some churches were defaced during protests last weekend.

As the pro-choice protesters filed past the church, government supporters chanting mournful incantations blasted the screams of a crying baby through giant megaphones at the entrance to the church. The sound was broadcast on a loop, the desperate screams repeated over and over as protesters marched stoically past.

Agata and Aleksandra, both doctors from Warsaw who declined to give their surnames for fear of repercussions, were among those marching past the church and doing their best to ignore the screams. Standing under a statue of the 16th-century astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, they described their intense anger at a system that does so little to support the parents of disabled children and yet appears intent on banning terminations even in instances where a foetus is diagnosed with a serious and irreversible birth defect.

“The moment when a woman discovers that the baby is sick and will probably die just after birth, this is the worst moment of their life,” said Agata, a gynaecologist, who was carrying a placard reading, “Don’t make me torture my patients”.

“Usually these are older women in their 30s, women who really want this child, and the news leaves them completely destroyed. Until now they had a choice about whether to wait, give birth, and watch the child die – but they will not have that choice any more. As a doctor I want to help them, but now if I help them I would be going against the law.”

But if the protests, which by Friday had entered their ninth day, have been characterised by anger at Poland’s political and clerical establishments, the rage felt by many marching through the streets manifested itself within a joyful, even carnival atmosphere.

Accompanying the chants of “Fuck PiS!” and “This is war!” were thousands of humorous placards mocking Polish leaders and demanding the right to choose. Some protesters wore costumes and danced as techno music and 80s classics were blasted from speaker vans. Protesters brought drums, vuvuzelas, kitchen pots and pans – even bagpipes.

There was a sense of euphoria as the various columns of the protest converged in central Warsaw into a single demonstration of 100,000 people, defying coronavirus restrictions banning gatherings of more than five. As they chanted, the red lightning bolt symbol of the Polish Women’s Strike was projected on to the giant communist-era Palace of Science and Culture as police helicopters circled.

Not even the nationalist football hooligans who attacked the crowd on several occasions were able to spoil the mood of the protesters.

In one incident witnessed by the Observer on the central thoroughfare of Jerusalem Avenue, about a dozen men dressed in black appeared from a side street and attacked the rear of a column of protesters, appearing to beat up one man quite severely. They were confronted by protesters with what appeared to be some kind of pepper spray or tear gas, leaving several bystanders spluttering and gasping for air.

The Polish police later confirmed that several such incidents had occurred; of the 37 people arrested on Friday, 35 were associated with nationalist circles. Police also confiscated an array of weapons, including batons and knives.

Many observers blame Kaczyński, Poland’s de facto ruler, for encouraging the violence by calling on his supporters to defend churches even after far-right groups had announced their intention to create vigilante patrols to confront the protesters. Last weekend, a woman was treated in hospital after allegedly being thrown down the steps of the Holy Cross Church during clashes between pro-choice demonstrators and nationalist activists.

Much has been made in the pro-government media of the apparent “vulgarity” of the protests, with demostraters regularly chanting “Wypierdalaj”, or “Fuck off” and holding placards with messages such as “My pussy, my swamp”, and “Kaczyński [a bachelor] is fucking us because he hasn’t got anyone else”.

But protesters argue that their language is a natural response to the contempt shown towards them by their government since it assumed office in 2015.

“Our attitude has changed in recent years because we realised that when you are dealing with louts and bumpkins you have to adapt and use language that they actually understand”, said Alicja, an IT worker who was holding a sign reading, “I tried being nice, now I’m just fucking pissed off.”

And several commentators have argued that the protesters’ anger goes far beyond the present government and the issue of abortion, extending to the indignities of living in what is still a patriarchal society and under a political and legal order that was shaped in the 1990s by a previous generation of socially conservative men from both sides of the country’s political divide.

Last week, Tomasz Grodzki, the opposition speaker of the senate, in a clumsy attempt to express his support for the protests, declared: “It is women who ensure that our daily lives go harmoniously and smoothly in an almost unnoticeable way.”

‘These codgers seem to think that the [protesters’ chants of] ‘Fuck off’ only concern politicians from PiS,” wrote commentator Kaja Puto in response. “Women have taken to the streets to fight for their rights, not so that you can return to power … For the last 30 years, as you have repeated the same conservative rubbish, Polish women have changed.”





No.41 article:
Coup 53, which charts MI6’s role in the shah’s restoration, has been blocked by makers of an 1985 show, who say it sullies their names

Coup 53 was heralded by critics this summer as a “powerful and authoritative” documentary “as gripping as any thriller”, and judged by historians as crucial to understanding Britain’s relationship with the Middle East.

Made over 10 years by Walter Murch, the celebrated editor of Apocalypse Now and The English Patient, in collaboration with the Anglo-Iranian director Taghi Amirani, it tells the story of covert British intervention in Iran after the second world war and stars Ralph Fiennes, left, as an MI6 spy in a reconstruction of a key incident.

The film’s fresh perspective prompted widespread positive reaction among foreign affairs journalists, including Channel 4’s news anchor Jon Snow, who called it “utterly brilliant”.

But now angry complaints from some of the biggest names in British television, including the veteran documentary-maker Brian Lapping, have blocked the general release of Coup 53. They allege the film undermines their reputations by suggesting they kept government secrets when they first told the story on television in 1985 in the landmark Channel 4 series End of Empire, made by Granada TV.

Lord Puttnam, a major figure in British film history and a mentor of Amirani, spoke this weekend of his regret about the row. “I find it heartbreaking that a generation of film-makers that I revere should feel it necessary to block a wholly admirable new documentary made by a world-class team,” he said.

Baroness Kennedy has been asked to mediate between the two sets of warring documentary-makers, but negotiations have broken down. This weekend, Amirani and Murch told the Observer they now face a painful choice between a long legal battle or making expensive changes to important elements of their film in order to regain the right to use footage from End of Empire.

“In our documentary, we say how much we admired the research the Granada team had carried out back then,” said Murch. “It is very sad that audiences can no longer see our film, given the years we have spent on it and the positive response it has had for a year at film festivals.”

Amirani added that the “cover-up” he hoped to expose, and the one he refers to when promoting his film, was carried out by the British government, not by the makers of End of Empire. “The whole reason we made the film was to tell the full story of what happened in Iran,” he said. “The British government have still not officially admitted what it did.”

Lapping, whose criticisms have been backed by many of television’s leading figures, including former Channel 4 executive Liz Forgan, believes the new documentary implies his earlier coverage of the same historic events in Iran was compromised by government pressure, something he denies. “Coup 53 clearly implies that our team was leaned on by government to remove an alleged filmed interview; that End of Empire was complicit in censorship,” Lapping said. “We are consulting solicitors. We would much prefer not to go to the law. We will only do so if we do not get a positive response to our requests.”

At the centre of the argument is the undisputed British secret service provocation of the Iranian coup d’etat of 1953: an attempt to unseat the country’s first democratic leader, Mohammad Mossadegh, in order to reinstate the Shah on the throne. The move was secretly desired by both Britain’s postwar government and America, as a way to ensure “stability” and secure lucrative colonial interests in Iran’s oil industry.

In 1985, researchers working for Lapping at Granada interviewed a former intelligence officer who claimed to have orchestrated the coup. Norman Darbyshire, played in Coup 53 by Fiennes, detailed exactly how his actions had been calculated to prompt unrest and ultimately led to the toppling of Mossadegh’s regime. The MI6 officer said that, as part of “Operation Boot”, he spent “vast sums of money”, well over a million and a half pounds”, adding: “I was personally giving orders and directing the street uprising.” But he does not appear in the Iranian episode of End of Empire and both Lapping and one of his main researchers, Alison Rooper, says she is sure he was not filmed and did not agree to give direct testimony.

Yet Darbyshire’s explosive evidence was recorded in a typed transcript that somehow made its way to the Observer journalist Nigel Hawkes the week before the episode was broadcast in 1985.

“They may have made a mistake in giving it to me,” said Hawkes this weekend, “but it gave lots of detail about how the coup was organised, so it was a decent story.”

Donald Trelford, then editor of the Observer, recalls the powerful story that Hawkes wrote up, quoting from Darbyshire’s account, although also indicating that the former intelligence officer would not appear on screen. “The involvement of the CIA and MI6 in the coup was widely known about by then, so that wasn’t the story. We were interested in the Darbyshire interview because it provided official confirmation of it and colourful details about M16’s dirty tricks,” he said.

No further media coverage followed the revelations, but Trelford says he believes the government did not issue a “D-notice”, an official instruction preventing publication. “We had no approach from the Foreign Office or anybody else. I was a member of the D-notice committee at the time, so I would have known.”

“I do not know who handed it over to the Observer,” said Rooper last week. “Presumably, the idea was to publicise the programme.” The picture is muddied by the fact that a CIA operative also active in the field, Stephen Meade, was interviewed on the record and filmed for End of Empire, although he also did not appear in the episode. Amirani and Murch used Meade’s archived, unseen interview in their new film and suspected that similar footage of Darbyshire might also exist.

The Darbyshire transcript was, however, later seen by the author Stephen Dorril and used in his book MI6. Rooper and Dorril both appear in Coup 53; and on screen the former Granada researcher tells Amirani and Murch she has no clear memory of what happened with Darbyshire. She and Lapping claim this creates an unfair impression and suggests they had agreed to suppress content.

In 1953, after the ousting of Mossadegh, the Shah flew back to Iran from exile in Italy and ruled until the 1979 revolution that set up the current religious regime. Darbyshire died in 1993.





No.42 article:
Typhoon Goni hits Philippines with 350,000 in evacuation shelters

Authorities report four deaths, power outages, flash floods and infrastructure damage as the strongest storm this year passes over main island

Super typhoon Goni has killed four people in the Philippines after ferocious winds caused power outages and infrastructure damage. About 350,000 people were evacuated from its projected path, including in the capital, Manila, where the main international airport was ordered closed.

Goni made two landfall in two places in the Bicol region, where four deaths were reported, said provincial Governor Al Francis Bichara, including one hit by a tree and a five-year-old washed away after a river overflowed.

Video footage by news channels and on social media showed rivers overflowing and some dikes destroyed, submerging villages in Bicol.

Bichara also received reports of volcanic mud flows, as well as electricity supply and communication service outages.

In Quezon, Governor Danilo Suarez said power supply was cut in 10 towns as Goni toppled trees.

Between 19 million and 31 million people could be affected by the typhoon, including those in danger zones and in metropolitan Manila, the disaster management agency said.

“There are so many people who are really in vulnerable areas,” said Ricardo Jalad, who heads the government’s disaster-response agency. “We’re expecting major damage.”

The storm hit in the early hours of the morning with sustained winds of 215 km/h (133 mph)and gusts of 290 km/h (180 mph). It was blowing west toward densely populated regions, including Manila, and rain-soaked provinces still recovering from a typhoon that hit a week ago and left at least 22 dead.

“Within the next 12 hours, catastrophic violent winds and intense to torrential rainfall associated with the region of the eye wall and inner rain bands of the typhoon will be experienced,” the Philippine weather agency said in an urgent advisory.

It said Catanduanes and four other provinces will be first hit, including Albay, where tens of thousands of villagers have been moved to safety, especially near the active Mayon volcano, where mudflows have caused deaths during past storms. Residents have been warned of likely landslides, massive flooding, storm surges of more than 5 metres (16 ft) and ferocious wind that can blow away poor dwellings.

One of the most powerful typhoons in the world this year, Goni has evoked memories of Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013, which left more than 7,300 people dead and missing, flattened entire villages, swept ships inland and displaced more than five million in the central Philippines.

Some 347,00 people were pre-emptively moved into emergency shelters, mostly schools and government buildings. He warned of storm surges that could inundate coastal villages, including in Manila Bay.

Forecasters said the typhoon’s eye may hit or graze metropolitan Manila, the densely populated capital region of more than 13 million, late on Sunday to early on Monday and asked the public to brace for the worst. The typhoon may considerably weaken after it hits the Sierra Madre mountain range, then cross the main northern Luzon island toward the South China Sea.

Manila’s main airport was ordered shut down for 24 hours from Sunday to Monday and airlines cancelled dozens of international and domestic flights. The military and national police, along with the coastguard and firefighters, have been put on full alert.

About 1,000 Covid-19 patients were moved to hospitals and hotels from tent quarantine and treatment centres in the capital and the northern province of Bulacan, Jalad said. More emergency shelters would be opened than usual to avoid congestion that can rapidly spark infections.

The typhoon preparations will further strain government resources, which have been drained by months of coronavirus outbreaks, which prompted the government to set up isolation and treatment centres when hospitals were overwhelmed and provide aid to more than 20 million poor Filipinos.

The Philippines has reported more than 380,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases, the second-highest in south-east Asia, with 7,221 deaths.

Displaced villagers may have to stay longer in evacuation centres even after Goni passes, due to another storm brewing in the Pacific that may affect the Philippines in a few days, Jalad said.

The Philippines is hit by about 20 typhoons and storms a year. It’s also located in the so-called Pacific “Ring of Fire,” a seismically active region around the Pacific where earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are common, making the impoverished nation of more than 100 million people one of the world’s most disaster-prone.





No.43 article:
Half a million tenants in the UK battle to pay rent due to benefit cap

Families hit by Covid-19 face debt as universal credit doesn’t cover housing costs

Almost half a million low-income tenants who are claiming universal credit – many of whom were forced to apply for the benefit during the pandemic – are struggling to pay rent because it only covers the cheapest third of rents in each part of the country.

New analysis by Generation Rent suggests 474,000 tenants in the UK currently face a shortfall between their universal credit housing payments and their actual market rents, including 91,904 people in the north west of England which has particularly badly hit by coronavirus.

The typical rent for a two-bedroom flat in Manchester, which is under the most severe tier three Covid restrictions, is £850 a month but the most a family in the city can claim is £598 – a shortfall of £3,020 a year. In Birmingham, the gap is £1,795 a year for a similar-sized property while in Nottingham the gap is £1,424. 

Every region has seen substantial increases in tenants applying for universal credit since March. The number seeking help in the north west increased by just over a third in the first three months of the pandemic, with 46% of renters in the region now reliant on state support. In London, there has been a doubling of tenants claiming universal credit, with 40% of households in privately rented accommodation in the capital receiving the benefit.

The analysis indicates a further 403,000 working renters could be made redundant or see their income drop in the coming months after the end of the original furlough scheme at midnight on Saturday night and as more businesses are forced to close under public health restrictions. Many more people would then become dependent on universal credit housing payments to keep their homes.

Will Lewis applied for universal credit after he lost his job as a chef in September. Lewis – whose name has been changed because he fears his landlord’s reaction – already owes hundreds of pounds because his £1,200 universal credit housing payment does not cover the £1,460 rent for the small, two-bedroom flat he shares with his partner and two young children in Haringey, north London.

“We are about £260 a month short on rent and that’s with cutting back on our food budget and spending almost nothing on clothes,” he said. “We’ve bought the kids some school uniform and that’s it – normally coming into winter we would buy them some new winter clothes but that can’t happen this year. It makes me feel inadequate.”

Lewis is worried this could lead to the couple running up large, unmanageable debts and eventually losing their home. “Our landlord is not great – I wouldn’t be surprised if he’s already put something into the courts,” he said. “We can’t risk being evicted because we haven’t got the money for a deposit.”

He has tried to speak to his landlord and his associates numerous times, as recommended by the government, but they have refused to either drop the rent or agree a repayment plan. “There are too many people out there that just want money,” Lewis said.

Generation Rent called on the government to suspend evictions for arrears and ensure that the housing element of universal credit covers median rents in each part of the country. Alicia Kennedy, the campaign’s director, warned that the government would end up presiding over “mass impoverishment” unless it provided more assistance to tenants. “Thousands of renters started claiming universal credit at the start of the pandemic and have found that it is nowhere near enough to cover the rent they owe,” she said.

She added that the end of the government’s furlough scheme had left many worrying about how they will keep their heads above water. “More than a million employees are at risk of redundancy and a quarter of them are private renters,” she said.

A government spokesperson said: “We’ve taken unprecedented action to protect renters, including a six-month ban on evictions and have increased local housing allowance rates, benefiting more than one million households by £600 a year on average.

“We’ve also raised universal credit by £1,040 a year, and a further £180m of discretionary housing payments are available for those who need additional support.”





No.44 article:
Hong Kong: seven pro-democracy legislators arrested

The legislators were arrested over a May parliamentary hearing that saw lawmakers clash violently over control of a subcommittee

Hong Kong police have arrested seven pro-democracy legislators over a parliamentary meeting which descended into violence in May.

The arrests on Sunday of lawmakers Wu Chi Wai, Andrew Wan, Helena Wong, Kwok Wing Kin, Eddie Chu, Raymond Chan and Fernando Cheung were announced on individual and party Facebook pages.

Hong Kong police told the Guardian they had received a report from the Legislative Council secretariat on 8 May, the day of the meeting, and investigations led to the arrest of the seven people by the Public Order Event Investigations team on suspicion of contempt and interference with LegCo officers.

“All arrestees are being detained for further enquires. The operation is under way and further arrests may be made,” police said.

At the chaotic May meeting, opposing lawmakers threw placards and scrambled over each other to take control of an important house committee that had been unable to elect a new chairperson.

Pro-Beijing legislator Starry Lee took control of the committee, which had been in deadlock for weeks. The opposing camps each presented conflicting legal advice over the legality of Lee taking control and pushing through matters including controversial pieces of legislation. Security staff formed a guard protecting the chair after Lee took her seat.

In the chaos, Chu attempted to climb a wall to get past the pro-Beijing crowd surrounding Lee and reach the chair, before he and others were physically carried or dragged out by security. Chan was dragged to the ground by pro-Beijing legislator Kwok Wai Kweung.

Others were shown to be dragged or knocked down, and pro-democracy legislator, Claudia Mo, who was standing away from the melee, appeared to be hit in the head by a flying placard.

The arrests come amid a widespread crackdown on opposition and dissent in Hong Kong that has intensified since the introduction of the national security law in June, which outlawed acts considered to be secession, subversion, foreign collusion and terrorism. It has been widely criticised as overly broad and ill-defined, and in breach of international human rights laws.

At least 27 people have been arrested under the law, including three people arrested twice.





No.45 article:
New Zealand&#x27;s Labour and Greens formally sign &#x27;cooperation&#x27; deal

Ardern says agreement allows parties to ‘take their own positions’ and stops short of a coalition

Jacinda Ardern’s Labour party has signed a “cooperation” agreement with the Green party, the prime minister has said, saying she hopes the agreement will be an extra level of stability for her second term in government.

The Labour party scored a landslide victory in the 17 October poll, securing a parliamentary majority in its own right. However, Ardern spent the last fortnight negotiating with the Greens, and on Sunday signed a deal that gives the left-leaning party, which is outspoken on environmental and social justice issues, two ministries outside of cabinet.

“This agreement is unlike any other. It does not require consensus to be formed. It allows the parties to take their own positions on issues where that is important, but offers to work together in other areas too,” Ardern said.

“This cooperation agreement represents the relationship that the Labour party and the Green party have formed over the last three years and the continuation of that.

“Importantly for the government (the deal) brings stability.”

Greens co-leaders James Shaw and Marama Davidson will hold the climate change and family violence portfolios respectively, and both will sit outside of cabinet.

The Greens secured an increase to their vote in last month’s election by pledging to support Ardern’s government. The PM has earned record approval ratings as leader, and her government has won international and domestic praise for its handling of the pandemic, which has seen life return almost to normal in a matter of months.

“The Greens campaigned on working productively with Labour to get things done, especially in the area of climate change and inequality,” Davidson said.

“We are really proud of signing this agreement today.”

The decision to accept the Labour offer came down to a vote of grassroots Greens members, of whom 85% voted in favour.

Davidson and Labour deputy leader Kelvin Davis, who are both Māori, spoke in te reo Māori at the official signing.

The parties have also agreed to progress a shared policy agenda on climate change, environment, child wellbeing and “marginalised communities” issues.

In her second term, Ardern will be without a major “handbrake” encountered in her first term in office – Winston Peters’ New Zealand First party.

The agreement means that Labour and the Greens can now push forward with policies they both agreed upon but New Zealand First did not.

“It’s a new parliament and a new day,” Shaw, a long-time adversary of Peters, said.

One of those issues, implementing pill testing at festivals, could happen soon.

“That is a basic safety issue. That is about saving lives and I do think people appreciate that,” Ardern said.





No.46 article:
Macron criticises Turkey&#x27;s &#x27;imperial inclinations&#x27; as row between countries escalates

In an interview with al-Jazeera, the French president also tried to calm tensions with the Muslims world over caricatures of the prophet Muhammad

The French president Emmanuel Macron has accused Turkey of adopting a “bellicose” stance towards its NATO allies, saying tensions could ease if his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdoğan showed respect and did not tell lies.

In an interview with al-Jazeera broadcast on Saturday,Macron condemned Turkey’s behaviour in Syria, Libya and the Mediterranean and said: “Turkey has a bellicose attitude towards its NATO allies.”

He also sought to calm flaring tensions with Muslims around the world after increasingly heated rhetoric following the murder of French school teacher, Samuel Paty, who showed caricatures of the prophet Muhammad alongside other cartoons as part of a discussion on free speech.

Macron said that France’s wish was that things “calm down” but for this to happen, it was essential that the “Turkish president respects France, respects the European Union, respects its values, does not tell lies and does not utter insults”.

He noted that France had offered its condolences to Turkey following the deadly earthquake in the Aegean and had also offered to send help to the scene.

He described Turkey’s intervention in Syria as a surprise and aggression for NATO allies, and said Ankara had not respected an arms embargo in Libya while showing a “deeply aggressive” attitude in the eastern Mediterranean.

“I note that Turkey has imperial inclinations in the region and I think that these imperial inclinations are not a good thing for the stability of the region, that’s it.”

There have been weeks of tensions between France and Turkey, which reached a peak last weekend when Erdoğan questioned the mental health of Macron.

France responded by taking the highly unusual step of recalling its ambassador to Ankara for consultations. On Saturday, foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said France would send its ambassador back to Ankara after a week’s absence.

Le Drian told broadcaster RTL that Turkey made “the deliberate choice to instrumentalise” the beheading of the French teacher, accusing Ankara of launching “a hateful and slanderous campaign against us”.

However the minister said Turkey’s condemnation of a knife attack at a church in Nice this week had been “different, clear, unambiguous, but that does not preclude clarifications from Ankara”.

“We asked our ambassador to return to Ankara tomorrow to follow up this request for clarification and explanation with the Turkish authorities,” he added.

In the al-Jazeera interview, Macron said he understood that caricatures of the prophet Muhammad could be shocking, while lashing out at “lies” that the French state was behind them.

France is on edge after the republication in early September of cartoons of the prophet by the Charlie Hebdo weekly, which was followed by an attack outside its former offices, the beheading of a teacher and an attack on a church in Nice Thursday that left three dead.

Macron sparked protests across the Muslim world following the death of Paty by saying France would never renounce its laws permitting blasphemous caricatures.

But in an apparent bid to reach out to Muslims, Macron sought to strike a softer tone in a long interview with the Qatar-based channel.

“I can understand that people could be shocked by the caricatures, but I will never accept that violence can be justified,” he said.

“I understand the feelings that this arouses, I respect them. But I want you to understand the role that I have. My role is to calm things down, as I am doing here, but at the same time it is to protect these rights.”

He added: “I will always defend in my country the freedom to speak, to write, to think, to draw.”

Macron lashed out at “distortions” from political leaders over the cartoons of the prophet, saying too often people were led to believe that they were a creation of the French state.

He slammed “a confusion that has been fed by many media – and sometimes political and religious leaders – which is to say that these caricatures are in a way the project or the creation of the French government or the president”.

He also denounced calls for a boycott of French goods, backed in particular by Erdoğan and taken up by some retailers in Muslim countries, as “unworthy” and “unacceptable”.

He said the campaign was created by some private groups “who relied on lies ... sometimes from other leaders” about the caricatures.

Even before the attack on Paty, Macron had promised a tough new campaign against Islamist radicalism in France, which has claimed the lives of hundreds of people since 2015.









