No.1 article:
A Gathering Political Storm Hits Georgia, With Trump on the Way

With two crucial Senate seats up for grabs, Mike Pence and Barack Obama joined the fray in support of their party’s candidates, and President Trump is headed there on Saturday.

ATLANTA — Some of the biggest names in national politics jumped into the fiercely contested runoffs for two Georgia Senate seats on Friday, even as a second recount showed that Joseph R. Biden Jr. had maintained his lead in the state and Republicans braced for a visit by President Trump, who has railed against his loss there with baseless claims of fraud.

With Mr. Trump set to campaign for the two Republican incumbents, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, on Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence and former President Barack Obama held dueling events to underscore the vital stakes in the special elections: If both Republicans are defeated, control of the Senate will shift to Democrats just as Mr. Biden moves into the Oval Office.

Mr. Obama appeared virtually at a turn-out-the-vote event for Jon Ossoff, the Democrat facing Mr. Perdue, and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, Ms. Loeffler’s opponent, and spoke of his frustration in seeing his initiatives blocked by the Republican-controlled Senate when he was in office. “If the Senate is controlled by Republicans who are interested in obstruction and gridlock, rather than progress and helping people, they can block just about anything,” Mr. Obama said.

Mr. Pence — with Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler by his side — attended a Covid-19 briefing at the Atlanta headquarters of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and said later at a rally for the Republican candidates that “we’re going to save the Senate, and then we’re going to save America.”

A second recount of the presidential vote in Georgia has finished, according to the Secretary of State website, showing Mr. Biden ahead by about 12,000 votes with 100 percent of the counties reporting.

New campaign financial reports filed late Thursday showed a staggering influx of money into the state in the first days of runoffs that were expected to set spending records, with more than $300 million booked in television, radio and digital ads, according to data from AdImpact, an ad-tracking firm. Media buyers said the price of ads was soaring, especially for super PACs, to unseen heights.

The Senate races are playing out at a hyperpartisan moment in American politics that has led to a civil war among Georgia Republicans divided over whether to support Mr. Trump as he persists with false assertions that the election was stolen from him. In Georgia and elsewhere, the president’s lawyers remain engaged in a failing, last-minute effort to throw the election to Mr. Trump.

Even as he tweeted this week that he wanted “a big David and Kelly WIN,” Mr. Trump called Brian Kemp, the state’s Republican governor, “hapless” for failing to work to overturn the election results, while also criticizing Georgia’s top election official, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. His sustained assault on Georgia’s voting system prompted an extraordinary rebuke this week from another high-ranking elections official, who warned of violent threats against poll workers and publicly pleaded with the president to cool down his conspiratorial rhetoric.

On Friday, State Senator Elena Parent, a Democrat on the judiciary subcommittee, which met on Thursday, said that she had been the target of violent, anonymous threats that appeared on a public internet chat room.

The president’s appearance in Valdosta, near the Florida border, on Saturday evening comes after a concerted campaign by his advisers and Republican lawmakers to convince him that his presence is vital to increasing turnout among his supporters. Initially reluctant, the president agreed to hold the rally after being told that victories by the Republican Senate candidates would help prove his contention that his own win in Georgia was stolen from him, according to aides familiar with the conversations.

But some Republicans in Georgia and Washington are fearful that Mr. Trump will go off-script, and potentially attack Mr. Kemp or Mr. Raffensperger. Party officials also worry that the president’s claims of fraud could backfire, undermining turnout by convincing Republican voters that the special elections are rigged against them anyway.

L. Lin Wood, a lawyer and Republican supporter of Mr. Trump, and Sidney Powell, a lawyer who has filed lawsuits on the president’s behalf, urged Georgians on Wednesday not to vote “unless your vote is secure.”

That same day, a number of prominent Georgia Republicans, including former Gov. Nathan Deal, signed an open letter in which they warned that “the debate surrounding the state’s electoral system has made some within our party consider whether voting in the coming runoff election matters.”

The leaders said that the party needed to focus on winning the two Senate seats, or risk turning the Senate over to a Democratic Party that “wishes to fundamentally alter the fabric of our nation into something unrecognizable.”

Some senior Republicans in Washington are doing little to hide their concern about the damage that they believe Mr. Wood and Ms. Powell are inflicting.

“It’s encouraging the president is going down there to rally the troops, because I know there’s some inconsistent messages being sent to his base supporters,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas. 

Chip Lake, a Georgia-based Republican strategist who most recently worked for Representative Doug Collins — who unsuccessfully vied in November for Ms. Loeffler’s Senate seat — said Friday that Mr. Trump was facing “one of the biggest political speeches the president’s ever had to make, because the stakes are that high.”

“If we have any portion of our base that might decide to boycott this election for any reason whatsoever, then we might be handing over the Senate to Democratic control,” Mr. Lake said.

Although a hand-recount of the state’s five million votes reaffirmed that Mr. Biden had indeed won the Georgia election, Mr. Trump’s campaign demanded a second machine recount. Fulton County, which includes much of Atlanta and is the state’s most populous, certified its results on Friday. As of Friday evening, state election officials had not responded to queries about when they would officially announce the results of the recount or recertify Mr. Biden as the winner.

The urgency of the senate races was reflected in the huge amounts of money pouring into the four campaigns in recent weeks: about $187 million just in online donations from Oct. 15 to Nov. 23, according to federal records from the donation-processing sites ActBlue and WinRed.

In that 40-day period, both Democratic challengers out-raised their Republican opponents every day from online contributions and surpassed the previous Senate fund-raising record for a full quarter. Mr. Warnock raised $63.3 million in online donations and Mr. Ossoff raised $66.4 million.

In that time, the two Republicans raised $58.2 million.

But well-heeled Republicans have erased much of the Democrats’ financial advantage with giant donations to a super PAC that raised $70 million in less than three weeks from a who’s who of Republican megadonors, including Stephen Schwarzman of Blackstone ($15 million) and Ken Griffin of Citadel ($12 million). The media mogul Rupert Murdoch gave $1 million, as did his son, Lachlan, the chief executive of the Fox Corporation.

Ms. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of the Senate, put $23 million of her own money into her campaign to get to the runoff and her husband, Jeffrey Sprecher, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, has donated an additional $10 million to a pro-Loeffler super PAC.

Big contributions from Democratic donors are lagging the Republicans. The leading Senate Democratic super PAC raised a little more than $10 million in the 20 days after the general election, records show. The biggest donation — $2.5 million — came from the organization that Stacey Abrams created, Fair Fight, after her narrow loss in 2018 for the governor’s race.

As Ms. Abrams’s star power has increased, Fair Fight itself has emerged as a major magnet for Democratic giving, pulling in nearly $35 million in 40 days that ended Nov. 23. Ms. Abrams, widely credited with leading the Democratic renaissance in Georgia, also appeared in the virtual rally on Friday for the two Democratic candidates.

“We won this election decisively, and, despite the number of recounts, it keeps giving us the same answer: that Georgia Democrats showed up, that Georgians showed up and that we decided that we wanted to move this nation in the right direction,” Ms. Abrams said.

Mr. Ossoff voiced a major theme that both Democratic candidates were seeking to exploit: allegations that Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue benefited from questionable stock trades as they learned about the seriousness of the coronavirus pandemic. “We’re running against, like, the Bonnie and Clyde of political corruption in America, who represent politicians who put themselves over the people,” he said. Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler have denied any inappropriate financial dealings.

On Friday, Mr. Pence rallied on behalf of Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue in Savannah, where he warned that Democrats would advance a liberal, big-government agenda if they were allowed to seize control of the Senate.

“If you don’t vote, they win,” Mr. Pence told the small but enthusiastic crowd at the Savannah airport. “If you don’t vote, there could be nothing to stop Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi from cutting our military, raising taxes and passing the agenda of the radical left.”

Mr. Pence was joined at the airport by Mr. Perdue but not Ms. Loeffler, who returned to Atlanta after a young man on her campaign staff was killed on Friday afternoon in a traffic accident.

Before the rally, at the C.D.C. briefing, Mr. Pence said the nation was facing a “challenging time” but also “a season of hope,” with the likely approval of the first coronavirus vaccine coming as soon as next week.





No.2 article:
The Virus Is Devastating the U.S., and Leaving an Uneven Toll

The United States saw the most new coronavirus cases of the pandemic on Friday, with deaths and hospitalizations also rising. Underlying conditions largely determine who survives. 

HOUSTON — The United States is winding up a particularly devastating week, one of the very worst since the coronavirus pandemic began nine months ago.

On Friday, a national single-day record was set, with more than 226,000 new cases. It was one of many data points that illustrated the depth and spread of a virus that has killed more than 278,000 people in this country, more than the entire population of Lubbock, Texas, or Modesto, Calif., or Jersey City, N.J.

“It’s just an astonishing number,” said Caitlin Rivers, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. “We’re in the middle of this really severe wave and I think as we go through the day to day of this pandemic, it can be easy to lose sight of how massive and deep the tragedy is.”

In California, where daily case reports have tripled in the last month, Gov. Gavin Newsom announced a new round of regional stay-at-home orders to address a mounting crisis over intensive-care beds. Some counties in the Bay Area said they were enacting tough new restrictions this weekend, before the state rules come into effect. And in South Florida, which is in the early stages of a new surge, physicians and politicians alike worried that there might not be enough resources to treat the sick.

As the virus has spread, infectious-disease experts have gained a better understanding of who among the nation’s nearly 330 million residents is the most vulnerable.

Nursing home deaths have consistently represented about 40 percent of the country’s Covid-19 deaths since midsummer, even as facilities kept visitors away and took other precautions and as the share of infections related to long-term care facilities fell substantially.

Underlying conditions have played a pivotal role in determining who survives the virus. Americans who have conditions like diabetes, hypertension and obesity — about 45 percent of the population — are more vulnerable.

And new evidence has emerged that people in lower-income neighborhoods experienced higher exposure risk to the virus because of their need to work outside the home.

“The pandemic is us,” said Andrew Noymer, an associate professor of public health at the University of California, Irvine, who added that part of the word “pandemic” derives from “demos,” ancient Greek for “people.” “It’s the same word that gives us ‘demography’ or ‘epidemic.’ The pandemic is collectively all of our actions.”

Upticks on both coasts have more than offset the progress in the Upper Midwest, where new case numbers have started to fall. Some places in the Northeast are now reporting more cases each day than they were in the spring, in part because testing was limited then. Rhode Island is averaging more than 1,000 cases a day for the first time. In New York State, cases have reached record levels around Buffalo and Rochester, with no signs of slowing.

More questions than answers remain about the virus and which people it kills, and why. There has been no modern pandemic of this scale and sort for infectious-disease experts and public health officials to draw from. As with cancer or even the common cold, no one has solved all of Covid-19’s many mysteries.

“You may be a person with cancer who gets exposed to very little virus and you’re going to get a severe presentation,” said Dr. Luis Ostrosky, an expert in infectious diseases at McGovern Medical School at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston. “But you may be a young person without comorbidities who gets a massive exposure and you may get a severe presentation as well.”

Months ago, there was a notion that the virus was a big-city phenomenon, as New York, Detroit, New Orleans and other urban centers were hard hit. It has become clear that is no longer true, if it ever was.

The virus has torn through places on the southwestern border with Mexico, where cases are spiking around Nogales, Ariz., and up on the northern border with Canada, too, where the Roseau, Minn., area has set records. Los Angeles and Miami are current hot spots, but so are Ziebach County, S.D., and Deaf Smith County, Texas.

The poor, in particular, have been more at risk than the rich, according to analyses of those who have been sickened by the virus or succumbed to it.

And new studies have suggested that the reason the virus has affected Black and Latino communities more than white neighborhoods is tied to social and environmental factors, not any innate vulnerability.

According to one recent study of cellphone data, people in lower-income neighborhoods experienced significantly higher exposure risk to the virus because they were compelled to go to jobs outside their homes.

Through early May, the number of people in the most affluent neighborhoods who stayed home all day increased by 27 percentage points, while the number in the lowest-income areas increased by 11 percentage points, according to an analysis by social epidemiologists at the Boston University School of Public Health.

“Neighborhoods matter,” said Molly Scannell Bryan, a research assistant professor at the Institute for Minority Health Research at the University of Illinois at Chicago. “In Chicago, both your race and the race of your neighborhood affected where high death rates were.”

Men are dying from the coronavirus at higher rates than women, data has shown. Some researchers suggest that one explanation is that men are generally in poorer health than women, more likely to smoke or have heart disease. By early December, at least 135,000 men had died from the virus in the United States, compared with at least 114,000 women, according to federal data.

There are differences by state and by city, however. Women are more likely than men to die of the virus in Connecticut, but men are more likely than women to die in Arizona, New Jersey and the District of Columbia, according to research from the GenderSci Lab at Harvard, which created a tracker on gender disparities related to Covid-19.

One of the key at-risk demographics is older Americans who live in nursing homes and similar facilities.

More than 787,000 residents and employees of at least 28,000 nursing homes and long-term care centers for older people in the United States have contracted the coronavirus, according to a New York Times analysis based on federal, state, local and facility-level data. Of those infected, more than 106,000 have perished.

The virus is known to be particularly lethal to those in their 60s and older who have underlying health conditions. And it can spread easily through congregate facilities, where many people live in a confined environment and workers move from room to room.

After her husband’s nursing home in Boone, N.C., stopped allowing family members to enter the facility because of coronavirus risks, Doris Greer stood outside his window three or four times a week. They had a routine.

Richard H. Greer, 79, who had heart problems and could not walk after a stroke, would call and ask his wife to bring their dogs, a Rat Terrier and “Boston Weiner” named Macy and Teton. Ms. Greer would drive over and a nursing home employee would slide Mr. Greer’s window open just a little bit, and the two would talk through the screen.

Since March, Ms. Greer had prayed that the coronavirus would not make its way into her husband’s facility, but she thought her husband was well protected because he rarely, if ever, left his room.

Then one day in the fall, she arrived at the window and a worker told her that her husband had tested positive and that they could not talk. His condition soon deteriorated.

She was permitted to go into the facility briefly in September in protective gear. Mr. Greer was on oxygen and unconscious. Joined by her sister, she then went back outside and sat by his window and talked to him. She stayed until it was very late and then came back to the window the next morning.

“I don’t know if he could hear me,” Ms. Greer said. “I just told him he was OK and that I loved him.”

She was still there at the window when he died later that day.





No.3 article:
A Trump Immigration Policy Is Leaving Families Hungry

The “public charge” rule was supposed to ensure that green cards go only to self-sufficient immigrants, but in the pandemic, it is driving up hunger and leaving Joe Biden with a quandary.

HOUSTON — The cars began filing into the parking lot shortly after 6 a.m., snaking around police officers who directed traffic to masked volunteers standing ready with boxes of frozen pizza, tortillas and brown bags of canned food.

The coronavirus pandemic pushed many of the hundreds of families to the drive-through food pantry, but among the several immigrant families in line, another cause was at work: President Trump’s newly expanded regulation that blocks access to green cards for legal immigrants who are deemed likely to accept any government assistance. Even with citizen children who clearly qualify for federal assistance, undocumented immigrant parents are eschewing programs like food stamps and are flocking to food pantries.

That, in turn, is badly straining relief agencies and presenting a challenge to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who could confront rising hunger by expanding government programs but will not be able to quickly undo the Trump administration’s expansion of a Clinton-era regulation that is pushing immigrant families away from those programs.

“They stop enrolling their kids and asking for food,” said Cathy Moore, the executive director of Epiphany Community Health Outreach Services, which runs the drive-through food pantry in Houston. “They’re scared.”

Dani, a 34-year-old undocumented immigrant from Honduras and the mother of three daughters, said she was alarmed early in the Trump administration when the president described immigrants as criminals and called for deportation raids. But she changed her behavior and dropped off food stamps and Medicaid in 2018 when the administration announced its so-called public charge rule, expanding the authority of officials to deny green cards to immigrants who might need public assistance.

On Wednesday, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against the Trump administration when it upheld preliminary injunctions against the public charge rule, deciding that the regulation was most likely not a reasonable interpretation of federal immigration law. But even as the policy continues to be litigated, it has already spread fear and confusion throughout immigrant communities.

The Clinton administration instructed officials to deem immigrants a “public charge” in limited circumstances, like if they were receiving government cash benefits. But the Trump administration effectively created a wealth test for immigrants seeking permanent residency by rendering inadmissible applicants deemed likely to use a broad range of safety net programs.

Some undocumented immigrants who have resided in the country for many years fear that using public benefits for their families could undermine their chances of securing permanent residency if a new Congress ever provided amnesty. If denied a green card, they believe that they would then become vulnerable to deportation.

Unauthorized immigrants are already ineligible for most welfare programs, but multiple researchers have said the policy has prompted thousands of families to drop off the benefit rolls, even if their American-citizen children could use such programs with no effect on their immigration applications — families like Dani’s.

“I remember all that about the public charge and everything, and I cannot sleep,” said Dani, who was especially concerned about her efforts to obtain a green card so she could stay with her children. “What’s going to happen if I’m deported? What happens if I’m sent away?”

While some of Mr. Trump’s executive actions can be rolled back quickly by the incoming Biden administration, the public charge regulation, which went through the laborious regulatory process before it was enacted, will prove arduous to rescind if it is ultimately upheld by the courts. And reducing the distrust in the government it has caused will be a major challenge for Mr. Biden’s pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro N. Mayorkas, the first Latino and immigrant chosen for that role.

The department, which handles immigration matters like the issuance of green cards, has purview over the public charge rule.

“The fear has risen to such a pitch that it will be a real challenge to assuage families’ fears. They are focused on public charge, but not solely public charge,” said Cheasty Anderson, the director of immigration policy and advocacy at the Children’s Defense Fund-Texas. “There isn’t going to be trust in the federal government among immigrant communities who are currently afraid and intimidated until they stop feeling attacked by the federal government apparatus.”

T.J. Ducklo, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, reiterated that the president-elect would work to roll back the public charge rule and was committed “to engaging with communities from Day 1 to ensure that they are able to access the care that is available to keep their families safe and healthy.”

A survey of 949 members of immigrant households conducted by the Urban Institute found that more than 20 percent of immigrant adults avoided public benefits like food stamps, housing subsidies, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program out of fear of risking future green cards in 2019. Researchers for Ideas42, a nonprofit research organization, estimated that 260,000 children nationwide were removed by their parents from nutrition and health care programs after the announcement of the rule.

That estimate was based on a study that found 79,000 children withdrew from Medicaid in five states: California, New Jersey, Tennessee, Texas and Washington.

The Trump administration said the rule was necessary to ensure that immigrants who come to the United States were self-sufficient and not a drain on taxpayer resources. After announcing the policy, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, a top homeland security official, revised the iconic sonnet on the Statue of Liberty by saying the United States would welcome those “who can stand on their own two feet.”

The administration had also predicted the chilling effect. In the final rule, Kevin K. McAleenan, the acting homeland security secretary at the time, wrote that the policy might cause foreigners and American citizens in households with unauthorized immigrants “who may otherwise be eligible for public benefits” to drop out of the programs. The agency estimated that could save the federal government nearly $2.5 billion annually.

The effects have been acute among immigrant families in Texas, according to a report released in November by the Children’s Defense Fund, which compiled data from 32 social services organizations around the border state. Ms. Moore’s organization reported a 37 percent decline in food-stamp enrollment from 2016 to 2019 among a clientele base made up of more than 80 percent immigrant families, even while demand at the organization’s food distribution site shot up 327 percent.

Another organization, VELA, a nonprofit that assists families of disabled children with a membership that is 85 percent immigrant, reported an 80 percent drop in food stamp enrollment from 2017 to 2019.

One of those who dropped off was Guillermina, a mother of three in Austin, Texas, who like other parents interviewed for this article declined to use her full name for fear of retaliation from the government. After hearing about the public charge rule, Guillermina withdrew from food stamps in 2018 and let her health insurance expire.

Anything but the essentials suddenly became a luxury.

“The biggest limitation for us was meat and protein. That was the most expensive thing,” Guillermina said. “The big thing was being able to know how to ration that item so we could include it in small bits throughout the week.”

The lack of health insurance meant she could no longer send her 4-year-old son to speech therapy. Without therapy sessions, Guillermina’s 11-year-old daughter, who has autism, began to forget techniques she had learned for household tasks, resulting in bursts of anger.

“The thing with public charge is it’s something that didn’t just affect me,” Guillermina said. “It affected all my family members, so many families I know in the process of fixing their papers — this fear of feeling like I never could access my benefits without the risk of deportation.”

In McAllen, Texas, Nailea Avalos, a 32-year-old mother of three who has worked for years as a waitress, took a deep breath and began to cry at the mention of the public charge rule. Originally from Mexico, she used public benefits to supplement her income as a waitress and her husband’s earnings from construction until 2016, when a friend told her Mr. Trump could soon punish those who used assistance.

She grew used to rationing food.

But in 2018, her daughter Xiomara, 8 at the time, showed how much she needed Medicaid. When an asthma attack impeded Xiomara’s breathing for a week, Ms. Avalos said she used a nebulizer she still had from an earlier illness of her son’s rather than taking her daughter to a hospital. When Xiomara’s struggles continued, she took her across the border to Reynosa, Mexico, for medical treatment.

“I felt like I wasn’t a good mother, that I wasn’t taking care of my child,” Ms. Avalos said.

When her husband lost his job in construction during the pandemic, she was driven back to public benefits. She has been told that using government assistance for her citizen children will not affect her green card eligibility, but she said she was still filled with anxiety.

“We’re leaving it to God, but we’re also hoping if we have a new administration and a new president, that all that changes,” Ms. Avalos said, adding that she hoped Biden administration officials “just have a conscience.”

Some of the parents using the food pantry in Houston said they re-enrolled in the public benefits programs only because they lost their jobs in the pandemic. But parents like Dani said they still felt more comfortable waiting for hours with their children in line at the drive-through food pantry.

“They should have the food stamps that they’re eligible for because these people need to be able to put food on the table for their children that are United States citizens,” said Ms. Moore, of Epiphany Community Health Outreach Services. “The collateral damage is to the children.”

As a case manager approached driver-side windows to speak to the parents, the line of vehicles threatened to extend beyond the parking lot. Police officers would need to tell more drivers to come back another time.

“It’s not jarring anymore,” Ms. Moore said. “It’s just the norm.”





No.4 article:
Further Slowdown in Job Creation Sets Off Economic Alarms

November’s hiring of 245,000, the fifth straight monthly easing in new employment, reinforces calls for action on a fresh relief package.

The American job engine has slowed significantly, stranding millions who have yet to find work after being idled by the pandemic, and offering fresh evidence that the recovery is faltering.

The Labor Department reported Friday that employers added 245,000 jobs in November, fewer than half the number created in October. The pace of hiring has now diminished for five straight months.

While many of those knocked out of a job early in the pandemic have been rehired, there are roughly 10 million fewer jobs than there were in February. Many of the unemployed are weeks away from losing benefits that have sustained them, with emergency assistance approved by Congress last spring set to expire at the end of the year.

The latest sign of economic headwinds arrived as members of Congress struggled to reach agreement on a new aid package. A bipartisan group of legislators has put forward a $900 billion proposal, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said the disappointing jobs report should add momentum to negotiations.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., warning of “a dark winter,” emphasized the urgency of congressional action. “This is a grim jobs report,” he said in a statement. “It shows an economy that is stalling. It confirms we remain in the midst of one of the worst economic and jobs crises in modern history.”

Covid-19 caseloads have doubled in the past month and are expected to rise further, discouraging people from in-store shopping and leading to new restrictions. And in much of the country, colder weather is likely to impede outdoor dining, which many restaurants have depended on.

“We’re in an unusual position right now in the economy,” said Ernie Tedeschi, an economist at the accounting firm Evercore ISI. “Far off in the distance there is sunlight” because of progress on coronavirus vaccines, he said, but until then, “we’re going to have a few of the toughest months of this pandemic, and there will be a lot of scars left to heal.”

One of the longer-lasting wounds is likely to be a large pool of people — many still of prime working age — who drop out of the labor force, remaining sidelined even when opportunities return.

The share of those 16 or older who are in a job or actively seeking one fell in November to 61.5 percent and remains far below levels seen before the pandemic. The drop has been especially noticeable among women, who are heavily represented in the service industries hit hardest by the pandemic — like retailing and dining — and have been more likely to leave the labor market because of family responsibilities.

The seasonally adjusted jobless rate dipped in November, to 6.7 percent from 6.9 percent, but that was primarily because more people gave up looking for work.

“Temporary unemployment fell, but permanent job loss inched up,” said Jed Kolko, chief economist at the job search site Indeed. Easily won gains have already occurred, as employers recalled briefly displaced workers, making subsequent progress harder.

“Measures of longer-term damage worsened slightly in November,” he said.

Last month’s job totals were dragged down in part by the loss of 93,000 temporary census workers, unneeded now that the official counting has wound down.

Yet even in the private sector, “momentum is slowing,” said Kathy Bostjancic, chief U.S. financial economist at Oxford Economics.

While distress can be found in nearly every pocket of the labor market, the pain has been unevenly distributed. This downturn, like previous ones, is expected to widen wealth and income gaps and hurt people with the least education.

Joblessness among Black and Hispanic workers was significantly higher last month than it was for whites, in part because they hold a disproportionate share of service jobs.

Gabriela Villagomez-Morales, 36, was laid off from her position as an assistant teacher at a day care center in Tacoma, Wash., after the pandemic arrived in March and schools shut down.

Ms. Villagomez-Morales, a single mother of four, was unable to pay the $1,000 rent for her house, so she packed up and moved in with her sister and her two children.

She has applied for jobs at restaurants and child care centers. Although she has yet to find work, she worries what will happen to her children if she does.

“It would be difficult, because someone would have to watch my kids if I’m not at home,” Ms. Villagomez-Morales said. “Child care is really expensive.”

There have been some signs of energy in the labor market. With the pandemic keeping shoppers out of stores and employees working from home, it’s no surprise that some of November’s biggest gains were in warehousing and moving goods and in health care jobs.

Employers in business and professional services also continued hiring, although large sections of the economy — like hospitality, travel and entertainment — are still floundering.

Becky Frankiewicz, president of the staffing and placement company ManpowerGroup North America, said a survey of all publicly posted jobs showed 11 million openings in November, a million more than the previous month.

“We continue to see week-over-week job growth,” Ms. Frankiewicz said. “We’re nowhere near where we were, yet we continue to limp ahead with recovery.”

There has been seasonal hiring, but the composition is different from what it was in previous years. Instead of adding positions at cash registers, on sales floors and in call centers, employers are scooping up people to work in warehouses and to handle customer service calls from home.

“We’ve placed several thousand associates last week for seasonal holiday push, and there are a lot of openings for work-from-home opportunities,” said Amy Glaser, senior vice president at the staffing firm Adecco.

Ilias Simpson, the chief executive of Radial, which handles e-commerce operations for retailers and other businesses, said the company had hired 15,000 seasonal workers, nearly tripling its North American work force for the holidays.

“We’ve been hiring since October,” Mr. Simpson said, noting that Radial expected to hire 40 percent more people than it did last year. “We’re in the middle of peak season.”

He plans to add several thousand workers over the next six months, some in permanent positions.

Last year, when the unemployment rate had settled below 4 percent, news that employers had added nearly a quarter of million people to payrolls in a single month would have been greeted with enthusiasm. But circumstances have changed radically in a short time.

Now millions more people are unemployed. And the broadest measure of joblessness, which includes workers who have part-time work but would prefer full-time employment or have given up the job hunt, has been at 12 percent for two months.

If job creation doesn’t pick up, it will take more than three years to get back to where the labor market was before the pandemic hit.

Wendi Wilson, 54, has been out of work since March. She had worked for six years as a brand ambassador helping companies sell products at conferences on the Las Vegas Strip, making roughly $35,000 a year.

Her state unemployment benefit amounted to $115 a week, which was augmented for a while by a $600 federal supplement before it ran out in the summer.

That left Ms. Wilson struggling to pay the $1,170 rent for her two-bedroom apartment in Summerlin, Nev., and a $460 monthly car payment.

In August, her unemployment benefits stopped, but she said she hadn’t been able to reach the unemployment office to get the extension she is entitled to. So Ms. Wilson has been using her savings to pay bills, including cashing in her retirement account. She is also relying on donations from friends.

“I don’t have any savings left, and that’s scary to me because of my age,” she said. “I’m not used to having to depend on others to help me, and I don’t like it.”





No.5 article:
Flaws in Census Count Imperil Trump Plan to Exclude Undocumented Immigrants

More problems arise as the Census Bureau rushes to compile information needed for apportionment before President Trump leaves office.

WASHINGTON — Census Bureau experts have uncovered serious flaws in a section of the 2020 head count that potentially affect the enumeration of millions, according to people familiar with the census operations, delaying still further the completion of state-by-state population totals that the White House has demanded before President Trump leaves office next month.

Census experts told the Trump administration last month that data-processing delays were making it impossible to meet that schedule, but the agency’s political appointees have continued to press for shortcuts in an attempt to deliver on the White House’s demand. On Friday, people involved with the census but not authorized to make official comments said the latest delay — adding 10 to 14 more days to a process that was already set to end well beyond the Dec. 31 statutory deadline — appeared to doom that last-ditch rush.

The extent of the additional problems — relating to the count of residents of group quarters like prisons, college dormitories or homeless shelters — effectively means that “that isn’t going to happen,” one official, who declined to be named for fear of retribution, said of meeting the deadline.

The Trump administration needs the bureau’s state-by-state population totals if it is to fulfill the president’s plan to strip undocumented immigrants from the state counts used to reapportion the House of Representatives. Such a move, unprecedented in American history, would produce an older, whiter, more rural population base for reallocating House seats that would mostly benefit Republicans, analysts say.

Many experts see the bureau facing deadlines it cannot possibly meet while maintaining its standards. Some bureau officials remain concerned that Mr. Trump will demand numbers anyway, a move that could plunge the nation into uncharted legal territory if the Democratic House and the new Biden administration reject the results.

The week’s developments are but the latest trials in a beleaguered and fraught census, with career officials forced to steer between a pandemic that all but halted the count for months and political pressure from the White House for results on the president’s timetable — sometimes, some career experts say, with little regard for accuracy.

“Anything produced in this compressed timeline the Trump administration has set increases the chances of a corrupted census,” Vanita Gupta, the president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, said on Friday. “The data problems can be fixed and the deadlines extended. But career census experts need to be able to fix the problems before the count is submitted. If the final data that is sent is shoddy, that could mean a failed census altogether.”

Spokespeople for the Commerce Department and the Census Bureau did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Mr. Trump’s order put enormous stress on the Census Bureau and its system for processing data at a time when it was also contending with the challenge of the pandemic.

With counting operations all but ground to a halt in the spring, the administration asked Congress in April to extend the legal deadline for delivering reapportionment totals to April 2021, rather than Dec. 31.

But in July, Mr. Trump abruptly reversed course, ordering that the Dec. 31 deadline be met. That forced Census Bureau experts to compress five months of data processing into two and a half months.

The Supreme Court heard arguments this week in two lawsuits contending that Mr. Trump’s plan violated federal law and the Constitution, which says the census should count all residents, not just citizens, and requires congressional districts to be apportioned “counting the whole number of persons in each state,” using information from the census.

The latest problems, which were not discussed at the Supreme Court argument, involve the tabulation of a category — people who live in group quarters — that totaled about 7.5 million residents in 2010, according to that year’s census.

To provide accurate numbers, the census asks for advance estimates from the institutions that house many people and then matches those estimates with the totals it receives from census-takers in the field. This month, data processing operations have turned up large discrepancies between the two numbers, differences that can probably be resolved only by further review and in some cases returning to the field. (For example, a homeless shelter or a prison might have expected to house a larger number of daily residents than it actually had when the census was conducted.)

By itself, that is not unusual; the bureau found similar variances in censuses in 2010 and 2000. In 2013, the bureau described how the numbers for residents of group quarters were resolved in a chart that is part of the 2010 census Planning Memoranda Series — effectively reducing the process to a historical footnote.

But in those previous decennial counts, time had been built into the data-processing schedule to remedy that and other problems. This year, in its rush to produce figures for the White House, the Census Bureau had already cut its data-processing schedule nearly in half, leaving no margin for mistakes.

Moreover, the discrepancies are exceptionally large this time because the coronavirus pandemic disrupted census work and led many residents of group quarters to move in the middle of the head count. This category includes college students in dormitories or off-campus apartments, many of whom returned home when the pandemic forced an end to in-person classes.

Terri Ann Lowenthal, a longtime census expert and consultant to a range of groups pressing for an accurate count, said the problems were not unexpected. She noted that the Census Bureau had cut back a dry run of its group quarters count and a post-count error check because of budget problems during a census dress rehearsal in 2018.

“I’ve been raising a red flag about the group quarters operation,” she said. “I think the pandemic exacerbated problems the bureau has had historically with ensuring an accurate count of group quarters residents.”

In meetings this week, the bureau ordered teams to find the source of the problems and recommend fixes by Sunday.

Problems counting university students appear to have been worsened by requirements of federal privacy laws that Congress failed to address before the count began. At least one university omitted last names of its dormitory residents in files sent to the bureau. Many schools did not turn over addresses of students who lived off campus but returned home, meaning that census-takers in college towns had no idea whether vacant apartments they found were truly empty or should be counted as a student’s place of residence.

Multiply that by millions of people who moved during the pandemic — children who brought parents home from nursing homes, jobless children who moved in with parents, relatives who consolidated households when money ran short — and the scope of the bureau’s problems becomes apparent, said Rob Santos, the vice president of the Urban Institute and president-elect of the American Statistical Association.

“They could be in a situation where they don’t know what they don’t know, and by the time they find out, it’s too late,” Mr. Santos said. “I don’t have high confidence that this can be done in two weeks, or three weeks, or a month. I think the Census Bureau needs time to do its due diligence, sort out the problems and fix them.”

In telling the administration last month that they would be unable to deliver totals to Mr. Trump before he leaves office, the bureau’s experts cited unidentified “anomalies” in the data that had to be resolved before work could continue.

In a letter released this week, the House Committee on Oversight and Reform stated that internal documents obtained from the Census Bureau described “13 anomalies identified as of Nov. 19 that impact more than 900,000 census records.” The documents noted that if new anomalies were identified, “additional time may be required for comprehensive release.”

Officials say that the group quarters discrepancies were among those anomalies, and that the true scope of the problem became known only as it was investigated.

With prospects of meeting the White House deadline increasingly dim, the bureau’s political appointees have ratcheted up pressure on career experts to meet it anyway, scrutinizing the data-processing timeline for operations that could be shortened or delayed.

Supreme Court arguments this week suggested that Mr. Trump’s effort to strip undocumented immigrants from reapportionment totals would face a second challenge — compiling an accurate count of people in the country illegally. Under questioning, Jeffrey B. Wall, the acting United States solicitor general, said that count “is fairly fluid.”





No.6 article:
Barack and Michelle: Scenes From a Marriage

Their two blockbuster memoirs offer a primer on a famous union.

He walks too slowly, a languorous Hawaiian ambler. She’s a get-to-the-point woman, in gait and gab. He’s a politician. She has no use for the type. He gets tangled up in fancy talk. She cuts through the fluff. He smoked. She loathes the smell of cigarettes.

Can this marriage be saved? We know, of course, that it can. We now have more than 1,100 pages on the extraordinary lives of Michelle and Barack Obama, as told by themselves. The two books — her “Becoming,” published in 2018, and his “A Promised Land,” out last month — broke sales records, almost single-handedly rescuing the bookstores of North America.

The national ground they cover, like the country itself, is vast: Arriving at the White House  during the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression. The heavy lift of expanding health care. The stone-cold barnacle of Mitch McConnell. Their own historic marker: the first Black president and first lady.

But behind their national identities, there’s also the private love story, and scenes from a marriage just as complicated as any other.

Indeed, long after people stop wondering how the Affordable Care Act came to be, they’ll likely be reading the Obamas as a marriage tutorial. Though he seems to get his way on his grandest ambitions, she frequently pushes back, saying their lives have to be about we, not me — or it won’t work.

It’s been a long time, and it is likely to be a long time coming before a married couple from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue have as much to say about one of the central mysteries of life. I would have liked to have seen more of the interior life of the first lady Edith Wilson, after she essentially ran the executive branch following President Woodrow Wilson’s stroke. And who doesn’t wonder what went on behind the sad gaze of the long-suffering Pat Nixon?

The Obama marriage, as they tell it, reflects both the strains of their place in history and the contemporary aggravations of professional strivers — the hard balancing of dual careers. Seemingly opposites, Barack and Michelle actually complete each other.

At times, her subtle snubs are just right, as when the president bolts out of bed early one morning to receive the news that he’s been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. “That’s wonderful, honey,” she says, unimpressed, then rolls over to get more sleep.

He knows how lucky he was to find her, and how — at the peak of his power — he misses the bond from simpler times. He says, “there were nights when, lying next to Michelle in the dark, I’d think about those days when everything between us felt lighter, when her smile was more constant and our love less encumbered.”

Somehow, they defied the stereotype of those living their vows inside a political bubble — the wife with the adoring stare, the absentee husband who only seems to care. What’s more, their description of how the two became one and stayed that way seems, dare I say, authentic.

Here’s Michelle, a first-year lawyer by way of the South Side of Chicago, Princeton and Harvard Law School, on meeting, dismissing and then falling in love with the man who walked into her office one summer day. She’d heard he was cute, smart and ambitious. “I was skeptical of all of it. In my experience, you put a suit on any half-intelligent Black man and white people tended to go bonkers.”

And just to be clear: “He was refreshing, unconventional, and weirdly elegant. Not once, though, did I think about him as someone I’d want to date.”

But as summer went on, she fell for his weirdness and his wit, his tardiness and his tranquillity, and when the mystery tug at her heart became too strong to resist, she knew she was in trouble. “He was like a wind that threatened to unsettle everything,” she writes. She spends more than 50 pages in her memoir on the courtship.

By contrast, it takes Barack, a notoriously loquacious man, a mere four pages in a book of more than 700 pages to get from meeting Michelle to their wedding day.

Going into politics proved to be one of the biggest sources of contention in their marriage. “We began arguing more, usually late at night when the two of us were thoroughly drained,” he writes. “‘This isn’t what I signed up for, Barack,’” says Michelle. “‘I feel like I’m doing it all by myself.’”

Indeed, like so many women, she made a considerable sacrifice of her own career to ensure that the family they raised would be normal, and to help Barack become the most powerful man in the world — something he consistently acknowledges.

His wife, ever the pragmatist, and the more succinct of the writers, has the best explanation of how they have stayed together for nearly three decades:

“What happens when a solitude-loving individualist marries an outgoing family woman who does not love solitude one bit? The answer, I’m guessing, is probably the best and most sustaining answer to nearly every question arising inside a marriage, no matter who you are or what the issue is: You find ways to adapt. If you’re in it forever, there’s really no choice.”





No.7 article:
Judge Orders Government to Fully Reinstate DACA Program

Up to 300,000 additional undocumented immigrants could be allowed to apply for protection from deportation under a new court ruling. President Trump had sought to cancel the program.

A federal judge on Friday ordered the Trump administration to fully restore an Obama-era program designed to shield young, undocumented immigrants from deportation, dealing what could be a final blow to President Trump’s long-fought effort to end the protections.

The program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was created by President Barack Obama in 2012. Over the years, it has protected more than 800,000 individuals, known as “dreamers,” who met a series of strict requirements for eligibility.

But those protections have been under legal and political siege from Republicans for years, leaving the immigrants who were enrolled in DACA uncertain whether the threat of deportation from the United States could quickly return with a single court order or presidential memorandum.

Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn directed the administration on Friday to allow newly eligible immigrants to file new applications for protection under the program, reversing a memorandum issued in the summer by Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of Homeland Security, which restricted the program to people who were already enrolled. As many as 300,000 new applicants could now be eligible, according to the lawyers who pushed for the reinstatement.

The memo from the Department of Homeland Security also limited benefits under the program, including permits to work, to one year, but the judge ordered the government to restore them to a full two years. Judge Garaufis, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton, also said the government must find a way to contact all immigrants who are eligible for the program to inform them of the change.

The judge said the government must announce the changes to the program on its website by Monday.

Lawyers who had challenged the Trump administration in the case celebrated the decision, saying that amid a pandemic and global economic recession, it granted some stability to a vulnerable group.

“This is a really big day for DACA recipients and immigrant young people,” said Karen Tumlin, director of the Justice Action Center, who litigated the class-action case. “It’s a day that many of them have been waiting for for over three years.” She said it could open the door for hundreds of thousands of immigrant youths “who have been unfairly denied their chance” under the DACA program.

The program still faces other challenges, including a case in federal court in Texas, where Republican attorneys general have asked a judge to declare it unlawful. And Mr. Trump’s administration could appeal the ruling by Judge Garaufis in the days ahead.

Immigration advocates said they hoped the administration would not continue its legal fight to end the program given the arrival of a new, Democratic administration in less than two months.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has vowed to restore the DACA program when he takes office, but a legislative solution that would permanently allow the dreamers to live and work legally in the United States remains elusive, leaving their fates to the shifting political winds in Washington.

If the judge’s order still stands by the time Mr. Biden takes office in January, the new president would need to do nothing to make good on his promise. But Mr. Biden is certain to face intense pressure from immigrant groups to fight for a broad overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws that would take care of the dreamers and millions of other undocumented immigrants.

Comprehensive legislation, including one that would provide a path to citizenship for some immigrants, would be less vulnerable to legal challenges than DACA, which Mr. Obama created using the executive powers of his office after Congress repeatedly refused to act.

But securing passage of a bill that includes citizenship for undocumented immigrants could be difficult for Mr. Biden, especially if Republicans still control the Senate after two runoff elections in Georgia early in January.

Americans have historically considered DACA beneficiaries to be among the most sympathetic categories of immigrants. Having violated immigration laws through no fault of their own by being brought to the United States as minors, they are required to have a high school diploma or G.E.D., unless they have served in the military, and they must maintain a clean criminal record to hold on to their status.

In a Pew survey conducted in June, about three-quarters of respondents, including majorities of both Democrats and Republicans, favored extending a pathway to permanent legal status to dreamers.

The program has had generational impact. Researchers estimate that 250,000 U.S.-born children have at least one parent who is enrolled in DACA, and that about 1.5 million people in the United States live with a beneficiary of the program.

The judge’s ruling on Friday is a significant legal setback to Mr. Trump’s yearslong attempt to terminate the program.

As a candidate, Mr. Trump insisted that DACA was unconstitutional, and as president he moved to end it in September 2017. That effort was put on hold by federal judges while the merits of the president’s actions were evaluated. The legal battle culminated in a Supreme Court ruling this summer in which the justices said the president had not followed proper procedures to end the program.

In the wake of that ruling, Mr. Wolf only partially reinstated the program, refusing to allow new immigrants to apply and slashing the length of renewals to one year, instead of the two years previously allowed.

In November, Judge Garaufis determined that the partial reinstatement was invalid because it had been issued in the form of a memo by Mr. Wolf, who Judge Garaufis found had been unlawfully appointed to his position.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday night.

But the administration has disputed the judge’s determination that Mr. Wolf was not properly appointed and has signaled in the past that it intends to fight challenges to the president’s efforts to end or scale back the program.





No.8 article:
Corrections: Dec. 5, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Saturday, Dec. 5, 2020.

An article on Friday about contenders for energy and climate positions in the Biden administration misstated the name of the organization that Heather McTeer Toney leads. It is Moms Clean Air Force, not Mom’s Clean Air Task Force.

An article on Thursday about the election of a new board by an elite wine organization, the Court of Master Sommeliers, misstated the nature of four new seats added to the board. They will be held by people outside the organization, not by candidates for the title of master sommelier. The article also misstated a new provision in the court’s code of ethics. Relationships are now prohibited between master sommeliers and candidates they are mentoring, not between master sommeliers and any candidates.

An article on Friday about the singer Selena misstated which Michael Jackson song Selena covered at a 1987 performance. It was “Billie Jean,” not “Beat It.”

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.9 article:
Responding to Terrorism in France

President Emmanuel Macron and others there have been angered by outside criticism.

In the wake of two horrific incidents of Islamist terrorism in France, President Emmanuel Macron and many of his countrymen have reacted angrily to criticism from abroad suggesting that French policies, and especially the French version of state-enforced secularism, somehow contributed to the lethal radicalization of a sliver of the country’s large Muslim population.

The French reaction is understandable. The beheading of a schoolteacher and the murder of three churchgoers in Nice by Islamist terrorists cannot be justified by any grievance, real or perceived. Any attempt to lay the blame for these horrific crimes on their victims, or on national policies, is perverse. France, a country with a deep commitment to human rights and a robust tradition of self-criticism, offers many legal avenues of protest — witness the Yellow Vest movement that has periodically convulsed France for two years now.

In the face of scathing criticism from Mr. Macron — expressed in a letter in The Financial Times, an interview with Ben Smith, the media columnist of The New York Times, and elsewhere — The F.T. and Politico Europe both removed articles questioning the role of French policies in Islamist violence. The core of the president’s complaint was that English-speaking countries that share France’s values were in effect “legitimizing this violence, and saying that the heart of the problem is that France is racist and Islamophobic.”

It is not always fully appreciated outside France’s borders that the country is home to the largest number of Muslims in the Western world, more than 8 percent of the country’s total population. It also has a history of horrific terrorist attacks, including, in 2015, the raid on the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and the assaults on Paris cafes and entertainment halls that left 130 dead.

Furthermore, France’s approach to ethnic minorities differs from the American model in fundamental ways not often understood. The American way is basically to promote the coexistence of different ethnic groups and religions; the French model, born of the French Revolution, is a universalist one in which people of all races, religions and backgrounds are treated without differentiation as citizens with equal rights. France maintains no register of people’s ethnicity or religion.

A critical element of that model is the French concept of secularism, laïcité, a legacy of the French struggle against the power of the Roman Catholic Church. Whereas freedom of religion in the United States began as defense of religion against the state, France’s began with a defense of the state against religion. So French policies such as banning Muslim head scarves in school, perceived by many of the French as combating religious coercion, is often criticized in what the French call the “Anglo-Saxon” world as an attempt to forcibly impose French identity on immigrants.

To its critics, the French model does too little to improve the lot of Arab and African Muslims living in suburban public housing, the “banlieues” where youth unemployment runs sky-high and many of the Islamist radicals are incubated. Conditions there have only worsened with the coronavirus pandemic.

In a major speech in early October, Mr. Macron assailed the rise of “Islamist separatism” and promised a new law to defend France’s secular and democratic values. He also recognized the problem of the “ghettoization” of French cities where “we built our own separatism ourselves,” but the speech drew sharp criticism from French Muslims, including charges that it stigmatized Muslims, especially women and working-class Muslims.

These are issues that should be open to debate, both within France and among mature democracies. But the debate cannot cross into any notion that any victim of Islamist terror “had it coming.” Mr. Macron is right to reject any such suggestion.

But he goes too far in seeing malicious insult throughout the “Anglo-American media.” Serious news organizations in the United States, including The New York Times, have sought to offer full and nuanced reports on the terror attacks in France and on the French government’s policies. It was unfair of Mr. Macron’s international communications adviser, Anne-Sophie Bradelle, to suggest that The Times and The Washington Post said France was “at war with Islam.” Neither suggested this, or argued that France’s core problem was that it is “racist and Islamophobic.”

But racism and Islamophobia are major problems in France, as they are in the United States, Britain and elsewhere in the Western world. So is Islamist terror, and the many issues of cultural integration, tolerance and competition posed by mass migration. These are the common challenges of the Western world, and no country has demonstrated a fully adequate response.

Under President Trump, the United States government has woefully abandoned its tradition of openness to immigrants and refugees, and the president has deliberately fanned racism and intolerance for political ends. French news outlets have not spared Mr. Trump and his followers in their coverage of his administration, nor should they.

The French media has also demonstrated a robust readiness to assail Mr. Macron’s policies, as it has done in recent weeks against the introduction of a “general security” bill that, among other things, included what looked like an attempt to protect the police from public scrutiny. After two incidents of police brutality caught on video, the bill was pulled back for a rewrite.

That’s what the news media does, at home and abroad. It is its function and duty to ask questions about the roots of racism, ethnic anger and the spread of Islamism among Western Muslims, and to critique the effectiveness and impact of government policies. When terrorists strike, however, there is only one response. On that front, Mr. Macron, France is not alone.





No.10 article:
For Boris Johnson, a Week to Exorcise the Demons of 2020

With the vaccine rollout and a potential Brexit deal looming, his government has a chance to wash away its reputation for chaos and mismanagement.

LONDON — Britain’s approval of a coronavirus vaccine this week, beating every other Western country, would be a political gift for any leader. But perhaps none needs it as much as Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

A successful vaccine rollout could be the last chance for Mr. Johnson’s government to show competence, after botching virtually every other step of its response to the pandemic, from tardy lockdowns to a costly, ineffective test-and-trace program — all of which contributed to the country having the highest death toll in Europe.

It also comes just as Britain has reached a climactic stage in its long negotiations with the European Union for a trade relationship after having left the bloc this year. Allies of Mr. Johnson were quick to claim that the swift approval of the vaccine vindicated the Brexit project.

That claim was quickly debunked. Nevertheless, the mass vaccination program will be an early test of how well Britain works once it is fully untethered from Europe.

“The British government is looking for ways to claim a victory because they’ve made such a bloody mess of the epidemic,” said David King, a former chief scientific adviser to the government who has become a vocal critic of its performance. “The nationalistic response is brutish and rather distasteful.”

Still, it is difficult to separate politics from public health. As the first vials of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine rolled into Britain in refrigerated trucks from Belgium this week, negotiators in London were in the last stages of trying to stitch together a long-term, E.U.-British trade agreement. The talks were paused on Friday evening, amid signs that a breakthrough would require personal intervention by Mr. Johnson.

The pandemic has raised the pressure on him to strike a deal, since a failure could deepen the economic damage caused by multiple lockdowns. Yet the convergence of events could also be fortuitous, allowing the beleaguered prime minister to resolve an issue that has divided Britain for more than four years at the very moment that relief finally begins to arrive for a country ravaged by the virus.

Pro-Brexit politicians struck a bluntly nationalistic chord, saying Britain’s early approval of the vaccine was the first of many triumphs — though for all the fanfare, it may be only days ahead of U.S. authorization and a few weeks ahead of the European Union.

The education secretary, Gavin Williamson, said Britain moved faster than its neighbors because “we’re a much better country than every single one of them.” The leader of the House of Commons, Jacob Rees-Mogg, said European regulators were “a bit sniffy” that they had not yet managed to approve it.

“We have, we’re leaving, draw your own conclusions,” he declared. “We are now free of the dead hand of the European Union.”

In fact, the swift approval of the Pfizer vaccine was not enabled by Brexit. Although Britain formally left the European Union last January, it continues to adhere to the bloc’s regulations until a transition period expires on Dec. 31.

The British health regulator invoked an emergency power, available to all European Union members, to move faster in the case of a pandemic.

Still, the optics of Britain striking out on its own, ahead of France and Germany, are appealing because they play into the pro-Brexit argument that a Britain unshackled from Brussels will be more agile and flexible, able to act as a free agent in the global market for everything from vaccines to ventilators.

“No one is very proud of our record on the pandemic,” said Jonathan Powell, a former chief of staff to Prime Minister Tony Blair. “But they believe we’re magically going to become a better country by being outside of Europe.”

If anything, Mr. Powell said, the Pfizer vaccine was a testament to the value of pre-Brexit, cross-border collaboration: It was developed by Turkish-born scientists at a German biotechnology firm, produced by an American pharmaceutical company and manufactured in a plant in Belgium.

Brexit has colored Mr. Johnson’s handling of the pandemic in ways obvious and subtle. Britain declined to join a multi-billion-dollar European Union vaccine purchasing fund and shunned a European consortium to buy ventilators. The latter decision provoked anxiety in the early days of the pandemic, when it looked as if hospitals might not have enough machines for their patients.

In the end, the hospitals were able to cope with the demand. On Monday, Mr. Johnson boasted that Britain, acting on its own, was the first country to pre-order supplies of the Pfizer vaccine, securing 40 million doses. All told, it has ordered more than 350 million doses of seven vaccine candidates, hedging its bets in case some do not pan out.

But Mr. Johnson diverged from other European leaders in waiting until late March to impose a lockdown. This fall, amid a second wave of the virus, he again moved more tentatively than leaders on the Continent, imposing a nationwide lockdown only in November. Critics say those delays cost lives; Britain’s death toll just surpassed 60,000.

“While we were in lockdown, we appeared to do nothing about a test-trace-and-isolate system,” Professor King said. “We still don’t have a system that has anywhere near the capacity we need.”

He and other experts expressed less concern about the British regulator’s rapid approval of the Pfizer vaccine. Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, they said, had a history of independence and a reputation across Europe for thoroughly vetting new drugs.

They also expressed confidence that the vaccine will be distributed through Britain’s National Health Service, not by private contractors, like the companies involved in the trouble-prone test-and-trace system.

Even so, there are worries about how to distribute the vaccine, which needs to be stored at ultracold temperatures. Before the first injections, the government abruptly changed the priority for who would get the shot first, ruling out those in nursing homes in favor of nursing home staff and people 80 and over in hospitals or with appointments there.

The government’s muddled messaging has damaged Mr. Johnson, not just with the public but also with members of his own Conservative Party. He had to fend off a rebellion among Conservatives in Parliament this week over tiered restrictions that replaced the nationwide lockdown lifted on Tuesday.

Experts said they were hopeful that the arrival of a vaccine would leach some of the vitriol out of the debate over lockdowns. But the government’s messaging could be a weakness in winning broad public acceptance of the vaccine. In addition to anti-vaccination activists, experts said it would confront wariness from people who will question whether Britain rushed its approval.

“They need to think about people who are saying, ‘Why is this being pushed so quickly?’” said Devi Sridhar, director of the global health program at the University of Edinburgh, who added she would take it “tomorrow, if I could.”

Mr. Johnson named Nadhim Zahawi, a Conservative member of Parliament with a background in public-opinion research, to coordinate the deployment of the vaccine. Mr. Zahawi, who has a degree in chemical engineering, co-founded YouGov, an internet polling company, which he later sold.

In YouGov’s polling on the vaccine — conducted last month after Pfizer reported positive results in clinical trials — two-thirds of those surveyed said they were “very likely” or “fairly likely” to take the vaccine when it becomes available. A fifth said they were unlikely to take it, while 12 percent said they were not sure.

“You’re going to have to see social influencers or health care workers lining up to take it,” Professor Sridhar said.





No.11 article:
Remembering Miguel Algarín, a Founder of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe

A fellow writer recalls Algarín, who once wrote that the poet was “the philosopher of the sugar cane that grows between the cracks of concrete sidewalks.”

Back in 1973, often remembered as the bad old days of the Lower East Side, Miguel Algarín, focusing on the light he saw shining from an emerging New York Puerto Rican community, began hosting a series of informal poetry readings in his apartment on East Sixth Street that brought together poets, theater types and musicians.

The gatherings soon outgrew his living room. Together with several contemporaries, Algarín went on to found the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, which opened down the block from his apartment in a former Irish bar on East Sixth Street. A new literary movement was taking shape.

Algarín, who died on Monday at age 79, helped forge that movement, playing a central role in creating Nuyorican poetry, and in popularizing the term Nuyorican to describe the bilingual, bicultural reboot of Puerto Rican-ness blossoming in the neighborhoods of New York.

Born in San Juan and raised on the Lower East Side, Algarín attempted to merge the highbrow culture of his working-class parents with a Rabelaisian Everyman rebellion from below. He had a fearless sense of pride and was a champion of the underprivileged. The passion for Shakespeare he displayed as a professor at Rutgers University seamlessly fused with the Africanist urgency of his own poetry, producing a body of work that reflected his fluid use of Spanglish and shifting sexual identity.

That first incarnation of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe acted as the headquarters of a generation of young poets who broke from the folkloric stereotypes of islander passivity to be reincarnated as “Super Fly” rhymers. The path was blazed by a cadre of poets including Miguel Piñero, whose play “Short Eyes” was championed by Joseph Papp’s Public Theater; Pedro Pietri, who read his epic poem, “Puerto Rican Obituary,” in 1969 when the activists of the Young Lords occupied a church in Spanish Harlem; Sandra María Esteves, who was one of the pioneering women of the movement; Lucky Cienfuegos; and Jesús Papoleto Meléndez.

In an era that would soon give birth to hip-hop, the Nuyoricans embraced a declaiming style that was shaped by contemporaries including The Last Poets; many were influenced by Ntozake Shange, one of the cafe’s founding poets, and her Obie-winning play “For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf.” The cafe also had visits from beat writers, including Allen Ginsberg and William S. Burroughs, whose “pale, inflected voice,” Algarín once told me in an interview, “still could reach us through his humor.”

When I read those words, written by Algarín in his introduction to “Nuyorican Poetry: An Anthology of Puerto Rican Words and Feelings,” in a corner of St. Mark’s Bookshop, it was as if time had stopped for me. I had become fascinated with beat poetry in high school and college, once daring to read the work of Amiri Baraka at a campus cafe, but this was life-changing. Here was that same spirit of rebellion and anarchic emotion, translated through a code-switching working-class eloquence, that spoke to me, and to a generation of New York-bred Puerto Rican migrants.

In that 1970s period of identity-based nationalism, as sensuous salsa mined nostalgia while the Young Lords reveled in the militancy of the present, Nuyorican poetry looked toward the future — or, as Algarín wrote, “the street burning up with its vision of times to be.”

I didn’t get to meet Algarín until years later, when I took part in the Nuyorican Cafe’s rebirth in the 1990s, at its new home on East Third Street. I expected to meet someone more like Piñero, whose wiseguy Spanglish hipsterism had defined the genre for me. But if Piñero was a Lower East Side Jean Genet, Algarín’s bellowing voice rang down on me like James Earl Jones mixed with James Baldwin: imperious yet somehow vulnerable.

His first lesson was about breathing and performance, when I had expected a line-edit. And while he seemed ambivalent about my poetry, he accepted me into his community, like the prince of the Nuyorican kingdom that he was.

That second phase of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe had begun after Piñero, a tragic figure who was very close to Algarín, died in 1988. It was during Piñero’s wake at a funeral home on the Bowery that Algarín, already reeling from the earlier death of Cienfuegos, was approached by Bob Holman, who had been working with the St. Mark’s Poetry Project.

“Bob whispered, ‘Mike is saying, wake up, reopen the cafe,’” Algarín later told me in an interview. The cafe reopened a little more than a year later, and this time, things would be different.

Under the direction of Algarín and Holman, the cafe expanded its mission, reflecting a time of change in the gentrifying East Village, as well as a new era of identity politics. Holman brought in the idea of a competitive poetry slam, which created packed houses and caught the attention of MTV’s “The Real World,” which featured Kevin Powell, a cafe poet, as one of its original cast members. No longer an ethnic-specific venue, the Nuyorican Café embraced proto-hip-hop African-American poets, N.Y.U.-ish white poets, feminist poets and L.G.B.T.Q. poets.

Today, spoken word theater is universal, and the legacy of Algarín and the generation that founded the Nuyorican Poets Cafe has stretched across the globe.

In a sense, Algarín — who tested positive for H.I.V. in the late 1980s, writing, “Can it be that I am the bearer of plagues?” in his 1994 poem “HIV” — was the ultimate survivor, outliving most of his contemporaries, and maintaining a quiet presence on the Lower East Side, even as the cafe became a nonprofit corporation with a new board of directors. With a seemingly endless expression of varied sexuality, much of his work centered on the body.

As Ishmael Reed wrote in his introduction to the volume of poetry “Love Is Hard Work,” Algarín “believes with García Lorca that the poet is the professor of the five senses.” Ennobled by an unbridled spark that crossed borders, he left a legacy that will live long into the future, his brash street edge now at rest alongside his gentle love for his people.





No.12 article:
An Artist’s View of Hazing Rituals, Haunted by Tragedy

The artist Kenneth Tam researched Asian-American fraternities, and particularly the death of a pledge in 2013, to create “The Crossing.”

As drums and cymbals of Taoist funeral music filled Queenslab, an 8,000-square-foot art space in Ridgewood, Queens, four performers chanted, marched, and body-slammed one another. They were dressed in identical, modified hooded tracksuits and tennis shoes, their faces hidden behind white masks. Height became their only distinguishing feature.

Tragedy haunts Kenneth Tam’s live performance-art piece, “The Crossing,” inspired by his research into the hazing rituals of Asian-American fraternities and fraternities of color more broadly. Lumi Tan, a curator at the Kitchen, invited Mr. Tam, 38, to develop and perform the piece in partnership with Queenslab, a former carpet warehouse just a block from the sprawling belt of cemeteries that separates Brooklyn and Queens. I witnessed its final rehearsal before the work is livestreamed by the Kitchen on Dec. 5 and 6. (Tickets are free but viewers must register here.)

The rituals in “The Crossing” are inspired by a group of online videos that Mr. Tam first encountered last November. Deep into a YouTube “rabbit-hole,” in his words, the artist came across a video posted by the Asian-American fraternity Pi Delta Psi’s New York University chapter. Footage shows a row of young men standing in Washington Square Park, in black masks, red ties, and dress clothes. Like recruits in boot camp, they bark out scripted lines while following highly coordinated movements. They step together, kneel, or bash their closed fists against their chests. Spectators cheer them on. As Mr. Tam learned, the video captures what’s known as a probate: a public presentation of a Greek organization’s newest additions as they “cross” over to their new lives as fully fledged members, and are unmasked to an audience with great fanfare.

Pioneered by African-American fraternities, probates were eventually adopted by other Greek organizations of color across the United States. As ritualized performances, probates were of natural interest to Mr. Tam, whose work has long explored “moments of intimacy and vulnerability within groups of men,” as he put it in an interview by Zoom in November. One of the artist’s recent videos looks at Asian-American men in the context of American cowboy culture. Titled “Silent Spikes,” it will be screened in public for the first time this week, followed by a conversation with both Kyung An, an assistant curator at the Guggenheim, and Sophia Marisa Lucas, a Queens Museum assistant curator who is organizing a solo show of Mr. Tam’s two-channel video installation with sculptures set to open next year. “At its core, Kenneth Tam’s work expresses the necessity of care and intimacy,” Ms. Lucas said in an email, noting that his upcoming exhibition “departs from an underrecognized history to explore how movement and connection can help us to honor selfhood and transcend centuries-old social narratives that exploit difference.”

Though Mr. Tam also uses other media, ranging from photography to sculpture, his recent video work features unscripted interactions between male “participants,” as he calls them. With open-ended prompts, he persuades them to talk about awkward subjects and act out awkward scenarios. In Artforum magazine, the critic Bruce Hainley has praised the artist’s “engrossing” videos, describing Mr. Tam’s projects as “heir to the rowdy incorrigibility of Jackass and its blunt knockoffs, like Impractical Jokers.”

 I like to think of Mr. Tam more as a freewheeling and slightly sadistic improv teacher bent on pushing everyone out of their comfort zone. In one video, he prompted participants to wear tuxedos and re-enact striking prom-photo poses. For the “Made in L.A.” art show at the Hammer Museum, Mr. Tam solicited men from social networking online forums to bring them together for a series of playful activities. At one moment, attendees each describe another man’s physical attributes to his face. Their squirming responses to essentially harmless activities are caught in close-up shots. According to Mr. Tam, these are moments when participants’ “internal social scripting fails them, and they have to do something for the very first time.”

In “The Crossing,” however, Mr. Tam forgoes improvisational humor for choreographed gravitas. In examining Asian-American fraternities, he pays particular attention to the story of Chun Hsien Deng, who went by Michael, a Pi Delta Psi pledge at Baruch College. In 2013, during a hazing ritual known as the “glass ceiling,” Deng was shoved to the ground while blindfolded and carrying a backpack filled with sand. He died the next morning of traumatic injuries to his head. Pi Delta Psi was found guilty of a felony count of involuntary manslaughter and four of his fraternity brothers were sentenced after pleading guilty.

Mr. Tam remembers feeling a sense of recognition as he learned about Michael Deng’s life. They’d both gone to specialized math and science schools in the city: Mr. Deng to Bronx Science, Mr. Tam to Stuyvesant. “He played handball, I played handball,” Mr. Tam said. “Long commutes, hanging out in Flushing, or those kinds of Asian spaces — that all felt very, very familiar.”

Mr. Tam was also struck by a New York Times Magazine piece about Mr. Deng by the writer Jay Caspian Kang. The essay made waves among many Asian-American youth, giving voice to the feeling that the tragedy of Mr. Deng’s death was somehow compounded by a melancholy, and futility, that underpins any search for Asian-American belonging. As Mr. Kang’s essay argued, “‘Asian-American’ is a mostly meaningless term.” He added, “nobody sits down to Asian-­American food with their Asian-American parents and nobody goes on pilgrimages back to their motherland of Asian-America.”

Those lines are among the first words uttered in “The Crossing.” Later on, one of the performers reads a letter by Mr. Deng’s roommate shared in Mr. Kang’s article. Much of the action onstage takes place within the Taoist diagram of a bagua — the energy map. It’s Mr. Tam’s way of nodding at the yin-yang symbol in Pi Delta Psi’s coat of arms — a “convenient shorthand for Asian-American identity,” according to Mr. Tam, “which is itself kind of problematic, as a westernized notion of Asian-ness.”

That coat of arms is just part of a larger issue. As Mr. Tam notes, these fraternities try “to express Asian-ness, but they do so in the most conservative, Western way, particularly with the hazing, which has nothing to do with being Asian. You’re just taking these oppressive models found in the military or other sorts of places that are about destroying individual identity in order to embolden the group.”

Which isn’t to say that the artist is exempt from the appeal of, say, a Pi Delta Psi probate video, which he likens to a sales video. “Like, if you do this, then you get this — hanging out, getting dim sum at a party. Things that young men do.”

“That’s the sad part,” Mr. Tam said. “You can’t just hang out. You have to create this apparatus in order to get to that.”

“I’m sure there are other things at stake when you join a fraternity — ideas about brotherhood, and history,” he added. “But for me it seemed like this long, roundabout way to get to this ability to just commune with other young men.”

Many of Mr. Tam’s videos have been made at a time when the phrase “toxic masculinity” has become a common term.

So what does he think of it?

“Certainly people have looked at my work and used that term. I wouldn’t deny that,” he replied, adding, “I’m not interested in pointing out the sort of more malignant parts of masculinity. I think we can sort of all do that on our own.”

Dawn Chan is a critic and writer based in New York.





No.13 article:
Betsy Wade, First Woman to Edit News at The Times, Dies at 91

In a 45-year Times career, she also became the first woman to lead the Newspaper Guild of New York and fought a sex discrimination case against the paper.

Betsy Wade, the first woman to edit news copy for The New York Times and the lead plaintiff in a landmark sex discrimination lawsuit against the newspaper on behalf of its female employees, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 91. 

Her death was confirmed by her husband, James Boylan, who said she learned in 2017 that she had colon cancer.

In a 45-year Times career, Ms. Wade also became the first woman to lead the Newspaper Guild of New York, the largest local in the national journalism union (now known as the NewsGuild).

She was revered among peers for her role in the 1974 class-action suit against The Times, one of the industry’s earliest fights over women’s rights to equal treatment in hiring, promotion, pay and workplace protections under federal anti-discrimination laws.

Four years after being fired as a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune for being pregnant, Ms. Wade landed at The Times on Oct. 1, 1956, and instantly broke a 105-year-old practice of male copy editing in the news department, where women were rare, relatively underpaid and confined largely to reporting on fashions, cooking and other subjects considered by male colleagues to be “women’s news,” or to clerical or secretarial jobs.

“The copy desk did not put a screen around me,” Ms. Wade told Nan Robertson for her book “The Girls in the Balcony” (1992), about the rise of women at The Times. “But they took the cuspidors out of the city room the first week. A copy boy got some deep ruffling and put it around my paste pot.” And the men told clean jokes, she said, “to make me feel less like a temperance worker at a brewery picnic.”

Ms. Wade, still a trainee, spent only a month on The Times’s city news copy desk before she, too, was assigned to edit women’s news. She was too good to be sidetracked, however, and by 1958 she was back in general news.

She was soon recognized for her cool appraisals of articles and her deft pencil — invisible to readers, but all too apparent to colleagues — as her surgical excisions and repairs saved The Times from factual errors and its writers from clumsy sentences, phrases of dubious taste and embarrassing flaws in grammar, spelling and syntax.

And her headlines — the icing on the cake for a copy editor — were often extraordinary, like one on April 9, 1962, over twinned stories datelined Moscow and Tokyo, in which she rendered “Spring” in Russian, Japanese and English to universalize celebrations of the vernal equinox.

She later moved up to jobs with more responsibility, and to other firsts by a woman at The Times: the first to edit articles by foreign correspondents; the first deputy chief of the foreign copy desk; and, in 1972, the first chief of the foreign copy desk, a job called “the slot” in news jargon — the boss who traditionally sat inside a U-shaped desk and distributed tasks to subordinate copy editors around its rim.

The slot was often a steppingstone to upper management. But the newspaper’s house organ, Times Talk, proclaimed her promotion with a sexist idiom: “Betsy’s in the slot: first dame to make it.”

A year earlier she had been entrusted to help prepare for publication the Pentagon Papers, classified documents and explanatory articles that told of American duplicity in Vietnam. In a historic ruling for freedom of the press, the U.S. Supreme Court denied a Nixon administration challenge. The Times won a Pulitzer Prize for publishing the papers.

Ms. Wade joined a women’s caucus in 1972 to study gender issues at The Times. It found that weekly salaries for women were $59 less than those of men with comparable jobs; that there were no women in the top corporate or newsroom ranks, on the editorial board or among 22 national correspondents; and that the staffs of 33 foreign correspondents and 35 Washington bureau members included only three women each.

In 1978, after a four-year court fight, The Times and representatives of 560 women on its 6,000-member staff settled a class-action suit — titled Elizabeth Boylan, et al, v. The New York Times, using Ms. Wade’s married name (she went by Betsy Wade professionally) — on terms approved by Judge Henry Werker. Both sides claimed victory.

The Times agreed to place more women in jobs ranging from entry level to top management, and to create annuities covering costs of “delayed career advancement or denied opportunity.” But it did not grant raises or admit any violations of law. , The Times’s executive vice president at the time, called the paper’s voluntary affirmative action program “one of the strongest in the country.”

Ms. Wade countered: “If Judge Werker is now able to say that The Times has progressed in affirmative action, it is our suit that compelled this. The paper began to move toward our goals when the suit went to court, and the women who have been hired since are aware of this.”

Elizabeth Wade was born in Manhattan on July 18, 1929, to Sidney and Elizabeth (Manning) Wade. Her father was an executive with Union Carbide. Seeking better schools for Betsy and her younger sister, the family moved to suburban Bronxville, N.Y., in 1934.

Envisioning a journalism career, Betsy worked for student newspapers at Bronxville High School, from which she graduated in 1947, and Carleton College in Northfield, Minn. She transferred to Barnard College in Manhattan in 1949, earning a bachelor’s degree in 1951. A year later, she received a master’s degree from the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University.

She married Mr. Boylan in 1952; he founded The Columbia Journalism Review in 1961. They had two sons, Richard and Benjamin. They survive her, along with six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.

Ms. Wade began her journalism career on The Herald Tribune’s women’s page. After her dismissal, she wrote for the Newspaper Enterprise Association from 1954 to 1956, when she joined The Times. In 1978, she was elected to a four-year term as president of the New York Newspaper Guild.

In 1987, after three decades as a copy editor, she took over The Times’s Practical Traveler column, and for 14 years, until her retirement in 2001, wrote weekly tips-for-travelers articles. A collection of her columns, “The New York Times Practical Traveler Handbook,” was published in 1994.

In retirement, Ms. Wade taught journalism and public policy at Hunter College in Manhattan. In 2016, she received the highest accolade for New York’s veteran journalists, the lifetime achievement award of the Silurians Press Club.

Ms. Wade was also a board member of the Anne O’Hare McCormick Memorial Fund, which endows scholarships for women at the Columbia and CCNY journalism schools.

Since the 19th century, Times articles had identified men in secondary references as “Mr.” and women as “Mrs.” or “Miss.” Stuck with the double standard, reporters asking female interviewees if they were married or single were often told to get lost.

But on June 20, 1986, The Times began using “Ms.” The change first appeared in a Page 1 article about a Supreme Court ruling on the sexual harassment of a bank employee by a male supervisor. The article called the victim “Ms. Vinson.”

It was edited by Betsy Wade.





No.14 article:
The MAGA Revolution Devours Its Own

Republicans encouraged Trumpist havoc. Now it’s coming for them.

Gabriel Sterling, a Georgia election official and longtime Republican, held a news conference this week in which, with barely contained rage, he excoriated Donald Trump’s lies about voter fraud and the threats of violence those lies inspired.

He railed against Trump’s campaign lawyer, Joseph diGenova, who called for the shooting of Christopher Krebs, a federal cybersecurity official fired by Trump for saying that the election wasn’t rigged. (DiGenova later claimed he was joking.) Sterling described a “20-something tech” involved in the vote tabulation who was getting death threats.

“It has to stop!” he said, visibly seething. “Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions or this language. Senators, you have not condemned this language or these actions. This has to stop.”

The next day, Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, expressed his support for Sterling. “It’s about time that more people were out there speaking with truth,” he said. His office had asked Trump to “try and quell the violent rhetoric being born out of his continuing claims of winning the states where he obviously lost,” he said, to no avail. Trump’s language, said Raffensperger, was creating a “growing threat environment for election workers who are simply doing their jobs.”

Along with many other state-level Republican election officials, Sterling and Raffensperger have shown admirable commitment to the rule of law. Their refusal to participate in Trump’s attempted autogolpe helped avert a constitutional crisis. Yet it’s hard not to notice that their outrage is a bit selective.

There is nothing new about Trump inciting harassment against private citizens, or of his lackeys calling for violence against the president’s opponents. In 2015, after an 18-year-old college student asked Trump a question he didn’t like at a political forum, he targeted her on Twitter, and she was deluged with graphic, sexualized threats. Ahead of the 2018 midterms, a man named Cesar Sayoc sent homemade pipe bombs to Trump critics; he’s been sentenced to 20 years in prison.

In September, Michael Caputo, a former Trump campaign aide who was put in charge of communications at Health and Human Services, said in a Facebook video, “When Donald Trump refuses to stand down at the inauguration, the shooting will begin.”

Yet Raffensperger voted for Trump. On Thursday, he told CNN that he supports the president still. The fact that Trump has openly sought to undermine the 2020 election, or that he delights in siccing his followers on his perceived enemies, was not a deal-breaker for Raffensperger. If he is now incensed, it’s because he and his colleagues have become Trump’s targets.

Since Trump’s defeat, the MAGA revolution has begun devouring its own. As it does, some conservatives are discovering the downsides of having a president who spreads malicious conspiracy theories, subverts faith in democracy and turns the denial of reality into a loyalty test. As the internet meme goes, people voted for the Leopards Eating People’s Faces Party, and now the leopards are turning on them.

Historically the American left, more than the right, was known for circular firing squads and excommunications. By turning the Republican Party into a cult of personality, Trump changed that. As the archconservative Jeff Sessions learned years ago, even a lifetime of ideological service is no defense when you’ve displeased Dear Leader.

People and institutions that get involved with Trump often end up diminished or disgraced. Since the election, this is happening faster than ever. The president is reportedly thinking of firing Attorney General Bill Barr because, for all Barr’s obsequious toadying, he has declined to repeat Trump’s fantasies about widespread electoral cheating. Much of the MAGA-verse has turned on Fox News, because its news programs aren’t pretending that Trump won.

Both Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia and Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona have been slavishly faithful to Trump, but stopped short of breaking the law by refusing to certify the vote in their states. For that, they’ve been at least temporarily cast out of Trump’s movement. “What is going on with @dougducey? Republicans will long remember!” Trump tweeted. At a berserk Georgia rally on Wednesday, the pro-Trump lawyer Lin Wood led the crowd in a “lock him up” chant against Kemp.

In concert with the recently ousted Trump lawyer Sidney Powell, Wood called on Georgians to boycott the Jan. 5 Senate election runoff unless state officials do more to help Trump cling to power. Speaking of Georgia’s senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, Wood said: “They have not earned your vote. Don’t you give it to them. Why would you go back and vote in another rigged election, for God’s sake!”

Naturally, Republicans who understand that Trump lost and are worried about Senate control in a Joe Biden presidency aren’t happy about these antics. But what disconcerts these Republicans isn’t, by and large, that Trumpist lawyers are spewing demented misinformation. It’s that this misinformation might, for once, work against Republican power.

“At best, Wood-Powell are distracting from the G.O.P. message in the races, and at worst, they are convincing persuadable Georgians that it is the Republican Party that needs to be checked, not Joe Biden,” wrote Rich Lowry in Politico. At worst! Republicans would almost certainly be fine with Wood and Powell eroding confidence in American democracy if it didn’t threaten members of their party.

“The Republican establishment, and also the conservative establishment, has always made this bet that it could open Pandora’s box and close it on command,” Rick Perlstein, a historian of American conservatism, told me. They could activate tribalism to achieve power, while maintaining a modicum of respectability. They could create an alternative reality but keep people enclosed within it. But with Trump “having pried Pandora’s box open, that becomes impossible,” Perlstein said.

Republicans helped Trump unleash countless civic evils. They shouldn’t be surprised when those evils don’t spare them.





No.15 article:
This Japanese Shop Is 1,020 Years Old. It Knows a Bit About Surviving Crises.

KYOTO, Japan — Naomi Hasegawa’s family sells toasted mochi out of a small, cedar-timbered shop next to a rambling old shrine in Kyoto. The family started the business to provide refreshments to weary travelers coming from across Japan to pray for pandemic relief — in the year 1000.

Now, more than a millennium later, a new disease has devastated the economy in the ancient capital, as its once reliable stream of tourists has evaporated. But Ms. Hasegawa is not concerned about her enterprise’s finances.

Like many businesses in Japan, her family’s shop, Ichiwa, takes the long view — albeit longer than most. By putting tradition and stability over profit and growth, Ichiwa has weathered wars, plagues, natural disasters, and the rise and fall of empires. Through it all, its rice flour cakes have remained the same.

Such enterprises may be less dynamic than those in other countries. But their resilience offers lessons for businesses in places like the United States, where the coronavirus has forced tens of thousands into bankruptcy.

“If you look at the economics textbooks, enterprises are supposed to be maximizing profits, scaling up their size, market share and growth rate. But these companies’ operating principles are completely different,” said Kenji Matsuoka, a professor emeritus of business at Ryukoku University in Kyoto.

“Their No. 1 priority is carrying on,” he added. “Each generation is like a runner in a relay race. What’s important is passing the baton.”

Japan is an old-business superpower. The country is home to more than 33,000 with at least 100 years of history — over 40 percent of the world’s total, according to a study by the Tokyo-based Research Institute of Centennial Management. Over 3,100 have been running for at least two centuries. Around 140 have existed for more than 500 years. And at least 19 claim to have been continuously operating since the first millennium.

(Some of the oldest companies, including Ichiwa, cannot definitively trace their history back to their founding, but their timelines are accepted by the government, scholars and — in Ichiwa’s case — the competing mochi shop across the street.)

The businesses, known as “shinise,” are a source of both pride and fascination. Regional governments promote their products. Business management books explain the secrets of their success. And entire travel guides are devoted to them.

Most of these old businesses are, like Ichiwa, small, family-run enterprises that deal in traditional goods and services. But some are among Japan’s most famous companies, including Nintendo, which got its start making playing cards 131 years ago, and the soy sauce brand Kikkoman, which has been around since 1917.

To survive for a millennium, Ms. Hasegawa said, a business cannot just chase profits. It has to have a higher purpose. In the case of Ichiwa, that was a religious calling: serving the shrine’s pilgrims.

Those kinds of core values, known as “kakun,” or family precepts, have guided many companies’ business decisions through the generations. They look after their employees, support the community and strive to make a product that inspires pride.

For Ichiwa, that means doing one thing and doing it well — a very Japanese approach to business.

The company has declined many opportunities to expand, including, most recently, a request from Uber Eats to start online delivery. Mochi remains the only item on the menu, and if you want something to drink, you are politely offered the choice of roasted green tea.

For most of Ichiwa’s history, the women of the Hasegawa family made the sweet snack in more or less the same way. They boiled the rice in the water from a small spring that burbles into the shop’s cellar, pounded it into a paste and then shaped it into balls that they gently toasted on wooden skewers over a small cast-iron hibachi.

The rice’s caramelized skin is brushed with sweet miso paste and served to the shrine’s visitors hot, before the delicate treat cools and turns tough and chewy.

Ichiwa has made a few concessions to modernity. The local health department has forbidden the use of well water. A mochi machine hidden in the kitchen mechanically pounds the rice, saving a few hours of work each morning. And, after centuries of operating on the honor system, it charges a fixed price per plate, a change it instituted sometime after World War II as the business began to pay more attention to its finances.

The Japanese companies that have endured the longest have often been defined by an aversion to risk — shaped in part by past crises — and an accumulation of large cash reserves.

It is a common trait among Japanese enterprises and part of the reason that the country has so far avoided the high bankruptcy rates of the United States during the pandemic. Even when they “make some profits,” said Tomohiro Ota, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, “they do not increase their capital expenditure.”

Large enterprises in particular keep substantial reserves to ensure that they can continue issuing paychecks and meet their other financial obligations in the event of an economic downturn or a crisis. But even smaller businesses tend to have low debt levels and an average of one to two months of operating expenses on hand, Mr. Ota said.

When they do need support, financing is cheap and readily available. Interest rates in Japan have been low for decades, and a government stimulus package introduced in response to the pandemic has effectively zeroed them out for most small enterprises.

Small shinise often own their own facilities and rely on members of the family to help keep payroll costs down, allowing them to stockpile cash. When Toshio Goto, a professor at the Japan University of Economics Graduate School and representative director of the Research Institute of Centennial Management, conducted a survey this summer of companies that are at least 100 years old, more than a quarter said they had enough funds on hand to operate for two years or longer.

Still, that does not mean they are frozen in time. Many started during the 200-year period, beginning in the 17th century, when Japan largely sealed itself off from the outside world, providing a stable business environment. But over the last century, survival has increasingly meant finding a balance between preserving traditions and adapting to quickly changing market conditions.

For some companies, that has meant updating their core business. NBK, a materials firm that started off making iron kettles in 1560, is now producing high-tech machine parts. Hosoo, a 332-year-old kimono manufacturer in Kyoto, has expanded its textile business into home furnishings and even electronics.

For others, keeping up with the times can be hard, especially those, like Tanaka Iga Butsugu, that are essentially selling tradition itself.

Tanaka Iga has been making Buddhist religious goods in Kyoto since 885. It is famous for what its 70th-generation president, Masaichi Tanaka, jokingly refers to as the “Mercedes-Benz” of butsudan — household shrines that can sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars.

The pandemic has been “tough,” he said, but the biggest challenges faced by his company, and many others, are Japan’s aging society and changing tastes.

Some companies have closed because the owners could not find a successor. For Mr. Tanaka, it is getting harder and harder to replace skilled traditional workers. Business is crimped because fewer people nowadays go to the temples he supplies. And new homes are rarely built with a place to put a butsudan, which normally occupies its own special nook in a traditional Japanese-style room with tatami flooring and sliding paper doors.

When it comes to religious tradition, there is little room for innovation, Mr. Tanaka said. Many of his products’ designs are nearly as old as the company. He has considered incorporating 3-D printers into his business, but he wonders who’s going to buy items made with one.

Ichiwa is blissfully untroubled by such concerns. The family is large, the business is small, and the only special skill needed to grill the mochi is a high tolerance for blistering heat.

But Ms. Hasegawa, 60, admits she sometimes feels the pressure of the shop’s history. Even though the business doesn’t provide much of a living, everyone in the family from a young age “was warned that as long as one of us was still alive, we needed to carry on,” she said.

One reason “we keep going,” she added, is “because we all hate the idea of being the one to let it go.”





No.16 article:
Native Americans Helped Flip Arizona. Can They Mobilize in Georgia?

Very few of Georgia’s more than 100,000 voting-age Native Americans cast ballots in November. Even a small increase could make a difference in the Senate runoffs.

Marian McCormick lives in Georgia, as do 2,700 other members of the Lower Muskogee Creek Tribe. She knows that comes as a surprise to some people.

“Here in Georgia, they tend to think that Native Americans were all removed,” said Ms. McCormick, the principal chief of the tribe, which is based in Whigham.

More than 180 years ago, as part of the Trail of Tears, the United States military drove thousands of Cherokee and Muscogee people off the land they had lived on for centuries and marched them to what is now Oklahoma. Today, the federal government doesn’t recognize Ms. McCormick’s tribe, or any other in the state.

But nearly 150,000 Native Americans still live in Georgia, by the Native voting rights group Four Directions’s estimate. They receive few government services and tend not to participate in nontribal elections, both because they face structural barriers — like hard-to-reach polling places and lack of voter ID — and because of the mistrust built by brutality and broken promises. Of the estimated 100,000 who are of voting age, only about 15,000 are registered to vote.

Organizers and tribal leaders recognize that if even a few thousand more Native Americans were inspired and able to vote in Georgia, they could play a meaningful political role in a closely divided state where two runoff elections on Jan. 5 will decide which party controls the Senate. Buoyed by remarkable Native American turnout in other states last month, advocates are trying to make that happen at breakneck speed.

Ms. McCormick recently spoke with OJ Semans, a co-founder of Four Directions, which is nonpartisan. They agreed to begin a get-out-the-vote campaign with the Cherokee of Georgia and the Georgia Tribe of Eastern Cherokee, two tribes that, like the Lower Muskogee Creek Tribe, are recognized by the state. They also plan to press the Senate candidates — Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, both Republicans, and their Democratic challengers, Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock — to address issues important to Native Americans.

Increasing turnout among members of a marginalized community in a month is a tall order, and the deadline to register to vote in the runoffs is even sooner: Dec. 7. The foundations that groups like Four Directions have spent years building in other states — the networks of volunteers and relationships with tribes — are not so well established in Georgia, and Native Americans there are not as heavily concentrated on tribal land.

But the examples other states set this year could provide a road map, even if the reward is farther off than January.

Consider Arizona, which flipped blue in a presidential election for the first time in 24 years.

Based on a New York Times analysis of precinct data, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. received more than 80 percent of the roughly 55,000 votes cast in the Arizona portion of the Navajo Nation — the country’s largest tribe — and in the smaller Hopi Reservation, which shares precincts with the Navajo.

Turnout and the Democratic vote share on the Navajo and Hopi reservations both increased this year, compared with 2016, and turnout rose slightly more on the reservations than it did statewide. Mr. Biden received about 13,500 more votes from the reservations than Hillary Clinton did four years ago.

That alone could account for Mr. Biden’s 10,500-vote margin of victory over President Trump in Arizona, even before looking at his strong support among other tribes there, like the Tohono O’odham Nation, which has been enraged by the president’s efforts to build his border wall through tribal land.

On average, Native voters lean left and have a history of swinging close elections to Democrats. Native Americans, including members of Sioux and Chippewa tribes and the Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation, are widely credited with helping to elect former Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota, in 2012, and Blackfeet and Crow voters were integral in re-electing Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, in 2018.

But like any group, Native Americans are politically diverse. In 2010, Native Alaskans helped re-elect Senator Lisa Murkowski as a write-in candidate after she lost the Republican primary. And come January, the six Indigenous members of Congress will be evenly split between the parties.

The strong preference for Mr. Biden among Navajo voters was related in part to the Trump administration’s handling of the coronavirus, which has devastated the Navajo Nation. But the high turnout was a product of organizing, which takes a lot of time and work in Native American communities that are affected by voter ID laws, far-flung polling places and poor infrastructure, and have centuries of reasons not to trust the United States government.

“No one has ever taken the time to really reach out to the individuals themselves and say, ‘These are the list of reasons why you need to register to vote and cast your ballot, because this is something that affects you,’” said Tara Benally, field director for the Rural Arizona Project and a Navajo citizen. “Building that relationship with the people, it’s what the federal government needs to do. They’ve never actually done that with the Indigenous nations.”

The Rural Arizona Project, a nonprofit that mobilizes voters in rural areas, had seven to 10 field organizers this year and worked with 200 Indigenous artists and influencers to promote a voter registration tool designed for communities without traditional street addresses. Native Americans are often disenfranchised when clerks mistakenly register them in the wrong precinct, but the tool lets voters enter plus codes — essentially shortened coordinates — to identify their locations more precisely.

Ms. Benally’s team contacted thousands of Navajo and Hopi voters, held drive-through events to register voters safely during the pandemic, and ultimately registered more than 4,500, the group’s executive director, TJ Ellerbeck, said.

A separate effort by Four Directions — led by Mr. Semans’s daughter, Donna Semans, a member of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe — registered about 2,000 Navajo voters. VoteAmerica, a nonpartisan group focused on low-propensity voters, sent more than 400,000 texts, according to its chief of staff, Jordan James Harvill, a Cherokee and Choctaw citizen. Advocacy groups also reached out to postal workers, who agreed to drive mail-in ballots straight to their destination to avoid the circuitous route that mail from the Navajo Nation often takes.

Native Americans were also influential in Wisconsin, where Mr. Biden won by about 20,000 votes. The state’s most Democratic area, where Mr. Biden received 82 percent of the vote, was Menominee County, which is near Green Bay and is home to the Menominee Tribe. Ashland and Bayfield Counties, which have significant Native American populations, were blue spots in a sea of red in northern Wisconsin.

Native turnout was substantial, and heavily Democratic, even in states where the race wasn’t close, like North and South Dakota (which Mr. Trump won) and Minnesota (which Mr. Biden won). Four Directions registered more than 8,000 voters in Minnesota.

In North Carolina, it was Mr. Trump who benefited: He improved on his 2016 margin in Robeson County, where members of the Lumbee Tribe are concentrated. Many Lumbee voters chose Barack Obama when he narrowly won the state in 2008.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden both support federal recognition of the tribe, but Mr. Trump held a rally in Robeson County where he emphasized it. That, along with his opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement, probably contributed to his success in the county, said Malinda Maynor Lowery, a professor of history at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who is Lumbee.

Native Americans’ electoral gains this year built on ones made in 2018, when voters elected the first two Native American women to Congress: Representatives Sharice Davids of Kansas, a member of the Ho-Chunk Nation, and Deb Haaland of New Mexico, a member of the Laguna Pueblo people. Ms. Haaland is a contender to be interior secretary, which could further energize voters.

“Those individuals are making a connection between us as members of our sovereign, Indigenous nations and us as citizens of the United States,” Professor Lowery said. “That’s kind of a tortured relationship, but to see people who are willing to manage it and who have persuaded a wide swath of voters to support them is deeply encouraging.”

Part of the progress stems from years of work to decrease legal and geographical barriers. Groups like the Native American Rights Fund and Four Directions have challenged numerous laws that disenfranchise Native Americans, like a voter ID law in North Dakota that required traditional street addresses until the state agreed to ensure voting access for tribes.

The barriers still exist, but the advances have been strong enough to prompt groups to expand their focus to places like Georgia, where Native American populations are smaller and less recognized.

“I think that the fact that so many Native voters did turn out despite all of the obstacles is a really important moment of reckoning,” said Katrina Phillips, an assistant professor of history at Macalester College and a member of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Chippewa. “It’s getting to the point where the government can’t necessarily forget about us anymore.”

Ms. McCormick, the chief of the Lower Muskogee Creek Tribe in Georgia, said she hoped that politicians would take note if Native Americans voted in the runoffs in larger numbers, and that they would develop policies to help Native communities in return.

That could mean reversing a Department of Housing and Urban Development rule that effectively restricts HUD funding to Georgia tribes; increasing education funding and access to health care; and recognizing tribes like Georgia’s federally.

Four Directions is already knocking on doors in Atlanta, where some of Georgia’s Native Americans live, and tribal leaders will help identify members who live outside the tribes’ main communities.

Next week, the group will send a policy questionnaire to all four Senate candidates, in hopes that the responses will help voters make their decisions and hammer home how federal policy can affect their lives.

“We’re going to bring Native issues to the incumbents and to the candidates,” Mr. Semans said. “Whether they want to hear it or not.”





No.17 article:
A Jobs Report Without Silver Linings

The November numbers offer clues that what was once temporary unemployment is becoming more permanent.

The bad news in the November jobs numbers reported Friday isn’t in the rate of job creation, though that was pretty bad.

Employers added only 245,000 positions last month, and even if you adjust for the one-time effects of temporary census jobs being eliminated, it would take 29 more months to return to February employment levels at that rate of job creation. But at least there is good reason to expect those numbers to improve once coronavirus vaccines are widely available.

The thing that is most worrying is what seems to be happening among the people who have lost their jobs because of the pandemic. The jobs report offers clues that what was once temporary unemployment is becoming more permanent — in ways that, if unchecked, could do long-term damage to millions of families and to the economic potential of the United States.

Although the unemployment rate fell last month, to 6.7 percent from 6.9 percent, it was for the worst of reasons: Many Americans gave up even looking for work. The number of adults not in the labor force — neither working nor actively seeking work — rose by 560,000, as the labor force participation rate dropped by 0.2 percentage points.

The share of prime working-age Americans working — those between 25 and 54 — was unchanged in November at 76 percent and remains far below its 80.5 percent share in February. The number of people who are not in the labor force but say they want a job is 2.2 million higher than it was in February.

A growing share of the unemployed have been out of work for a long time. The number of Americans unemployed for more than 27 weeks rose by 385,000 in November. Since only September, the number of these long-term unemployed is up by a devastating 1.5 million people — a 64 percent increase.

Put those numbers together, and the pattern is clear: Many people who lost jobs in the spring have been without work continuously since then, and some of them have given up looking.

A central lesson of the grinding recovery that followed the 2008-9 recession is that these prolonged periods of unemployment (actively seeking a job) or nonemployment (not working, and also not looking) have long-term effects.

Even as the economy recovered, people had experienced various forms of damage. Some people’s skills became outdated. But more generally, many people just lost a sense of attachment to the work force. It’s much harder to find a job when you’ve been out of work for years than when you’ve been on a short-term layoff.

And that’s before you get to the more social dimensions of the problem; those out of the work force can become vulnerable to developing addictions and other mental health problems. The nonemployment crisis of the 2010s and the opioid crisis of the 2010s weren’t completely separate.

In that episode, the share of prime-age Americans who were employed did not return to its January 2008 level until August 2019! When economists talk about what a slow, disappointing expansion that was, this is a big part of what they are referring to.

There is a good chance to avoid that fate in the recovery from the pandemic recession. A quick snapback in employment after widespread vaccination is possible in 2021, and it could pull many of those long-term unemployed and nonemployed back into the work force quickly, after only a year or so of detachment from the rhythms of work life.

This is normally the point in analyzing a bad jobs report where one points out silver linings — those little reasons for optimism that are hiding if you know where to look.

This month, they are hard to find.

The data in the new numbers are based on employment levels in the week of Nov. 8-14. Various real-time data sources point to a softening in economic activity since then, as coronavirus infections have risen and the weather has turned colder, limiting outdoor dining and retail options. December employment numbers could well be worse.

For a slight hint of optimism, one of the big categories of job loss that dragged down the November numbers will probably reverse. Retailers cut about 35,000 jobs, according to the official numbers, which are adjusted for the typical seasonal patterns. But if you ignore those seasonal adjustments, the sector added 302,000 jobs — stores did do holiday hiring, just less than past experience would have predicted.

The good news, such as it is, is that in January this pattern should reverse itself, creating an apparent employment surge when seasonal adjustments are applied.

In a miserable November for American workers, this is what counts as a cause for optimism: The people who weren’t hired as temporary help at retailers this holiday season won’t lose their jobs in January.

But the real hope for 2021 is that enough unemployed and nonemployed Americans can come back to work quickly enough that the long-lasting effects of the last scarring downturn can be prevented from recurring.





No.18 article:
Miguel Algarín, Force Behind Nuyorican Cafe, Dies at 79

His Lower East Side performance space has been an incubator for poets, playwrights and other artists, many of them not initially embraced by the mainstream.

Miguel Algarín, a poet and driving force behind the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, a performance space on the Lower East Side of Manhattan that since 1973 has played host to poetry readings, plays and more by Puerto Rican and other artists who have had trouble being heard in the mainstream, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 79.

His nephew John Howard-Algarín, a municipal judge in New York City, said the apparent cause of death, in a hospital, was sepsis.

Mr. Algarín, who was born in Puerto Rico but lived most of his life in New York, had a keen sense of the dual identity felt by many people with a similar story. He had an equally keen ear for the language of the street and the power of poetry performed live. He was a foundational figure in the Nuyorican literary movement, which encompassed writers and other New York artists who were born in Puerto Rico or were of Puerto Rican descent and whose works often explored their identity and their marginalization.

In the early 1970s, his apartment flat on East Sixth Street became a gathering spot for similarly minded writers, and in 1973 things came to a crossroads.

“The gang of poets that he gathered around him were hanging out at his apartment when he said, ‘There are too many of us in here; let’s go over to that Irish bar across the street,’” his friend Bob Holman said in a phone interview. “That was the beginning of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe.” (Mr. Holman went on to help Mr. Algarín revive the cafe in the late 1980s after a period of dormancy.)

The cafe caught on. Performances grew to embrace theater, poetry slams and more, with an emphasis on writers of color and other marginalized groups. Books were published. A theater festival was created. All of it sought to break the bonds that Mr. Algarín felt the arts world, society and language itself placed on such performers and writers.

“When a people are oppressed, the only way to hold their cultural space is to start talking,” he wrote in the introduction to “Action: The Nuyorican Poets Café Theater Festival,” a 1997 collection compiled by Mr. Algarín and another of the cafe’s founding poets, Lois Elaine Griffith.

His own prose and poetry — he published a number of collections — was part of that conversation. There was, for instance, “Survival,” from 1978:

the struggle is really simplei was borni was taught how to behavei was shown how to accommodate —i resist being humanizedinto feelings not my own —the struggle is really simplei will be borni will not be taught how to behavei will not make my muscles vestigiali will not digest myself

Miguel Algarín was born on Sept. 11, 1941, in the Santurce neighborhood of San Juan. He was 9 when the family moved to New York, where his mother, María Socorro Algarín, became a dietitian at Goldwater Memorial Hospital and his father, also named Miguel, a doorman.

Mr. Algarín received a bachelor’s degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1963 and a master’s degree in English literature from Pennsylvania State University in 1965. Returning to New York, he taught Shakespeare, creative writing and United States ethnic literature at Rutgers University in New Jersey for more than 30 years. He was an emeritus professor there at his death.

Mr. Algarín was just as comfortable on the streets of the pre-gentrification Lower East Side as he was in the university classroom, as the writer Ishmael Reed noted in his introduction to Mr. Algarín’s 1997 collection, “Love Is Hard Work: Memorias de Loisaida.”

“The poetry is as sophisticated as the author,” Mr. Reed wrote, “who is capable of leading a theater audience in a discussion of the links between William Shakespeare and Adrienne Kennedy and of ordering in French at a New Orleans restaurant. He is a professor who nevertheless hasn’t lost the common touch.”

Mr. Algarín strove to connect the two worlds. “He had a vision of the poetry of the streets being as respected as the poetry of the academy,” Mr. Holman said.

In 1975, Mr. Algarín and Miguel Piñero, another founding poet of the cafe, published “Nuyorican Poetry: An Anthology of Puerto Rican Words and Feelings.” It included an introductory essay by Mr. Algarín that became something of a foundational document for the Nuyorican literary movement.

“The poems in this anthology document the conditions of survival: many roaches, many busts, many drug poems, many hate poems — many, many poems of complaints,” he wrote. “But the complaints are delivered in a new rhythm. It is a bomba rhythm&quot; — a music and dance form from Puerto Rico — “with many changing pitches delivered with a bold stress. The pitches vary, but the stress is always bomba and the vocabulary is English and Spanish mixed into a new language.”

The cafe moved to East Third Street in the 1980s and remains there today. Over the years the variety of voices coming from its stage expanded, as did the forms — its poetry slams were lively affairs — and by 1995 Mr. Algarín was able to reflect on the role the cafe had played in broadening New York’s arts offerings.

“The poets of the Cafe have gone a long way toward changing the so-called black/white dialogue that has been the breeding ground for social, cultural and political conflict in the United States,” he wrote in the introduction to “Aloud: Voices From the Nuyorican Poets Cafe,” a 1994 compilation he edited with Mr. Holman. “It is clear that we now are entering a new era, where the dialogue is multiethnic and necessitates a larger field of verbal action to explain the cultural and political reality of North America.”

He is survived by a brother, Arturo; a sister, Irma Antonia Algarín; and several nieces and nephews.

In a 1976 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Algarín talked about what attracted audiences and performers to the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. They were drawn, he said, “by the sense of not having to let go in order to survive; we are not forced to drop our language in some sort of search for American citizenship.”





No.19 article:
Prominent New York Priest Is Investigated Over Sexual Assault Accusation

The Manhattan district attorney’s office said it was investigating the Rev. George William Rutler after a security guard said he attacked her at his church. 

A nationally prominent Catholic priest is under criminal investigation after a security guard assigned to his church accused him of sexually assaulting her on Election Day, the Manhattan district attorney’s office said on Friday.

The priest, the Rev. George William Rutler, 75, is accused of watching pornography and masturbating in front of the guard, Ashley Gonzalez, 22, without her consent in his office at the Church of St. Michael the Archangel. He then attacked her physically and sexually when she tried to flee from the room, Ms. Gonzalez told the police.

In a letter to his parish after the accusations surfaced, Father Rutler denied Ms. Gonzalez’s claim that he “improperly touched her.” But he did not respond to her allegation that he had watched pornography and masturbated in front of her.

Part of the alleged encounter was recorded by Ms. Gonzalez on her cellphone. She provided the video clip, which shows a man who fits Father Rutler’s physical description, to law enforcement officials and to The New York Times.

Father Rutler, one of the most influential parish priests in the United States, is a well-known figure in the world of Catholic conservatism, and has been outspoken in his criticism of liberalism and the pontificate of Pope Francis.

He is the author of dozens of books, and has hosted a show on Eternal Word Television Network, a Catholic channel available in 140 countries, since 1988. He also gained attention after ministering to firefighters at ground zero on the morning of the Sept. 11 attacks.

The Manhattan district attorney’s office said in a statement that its criminal investigation into the matter was “active and ongoing.”

“We encourage anyone with relevant information to contact our office,” the statement said.

In an interview with The Times, Ms. Gonzalez said that Father Rutler had invited her to rest on a couch in his office when she began a short-term assignment as a guard at the church during the week of the election.

On Nov. 3, her second night of work, the priest walked into the office at the Midtown Manhattan church shortly after she started her break a little after 1 a.m. and began to check election results on his desktop computer, Ms. Gonzalez said.

But after a few minutes, she said she heard “sexual noises” and saw Father Rutler watching gay pornographic videos on his computer with his right hand in his pants.

Ms. Gonzalez said she was paralyzed by fear and convinced that no one would believe her word over that of a priest. So, she said, she used her phone to film Father Rutler at his desk. The video clip of the episode lasts 19 seconds.

“I didn’t know what to do in that moment so I texted my mom and said ‘I think I’m about to get raped,’” Ms. Gonzalez said. She shared texts with The Times whose time stamps and dates appear to support her account of that night.

“I started recording him,” she added. “That was my first instinct. If you know me, I record right away, which is anything and everything.”

Ms. Gonzalez said that when she got up and tried to leave the room, the priest blocked her exit, fondled her breasts and slammed her against an office wall before she fought him off and fled.

A spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York, Joseph Zwilling, said it was cooperating with the district attorney’s investigation. Mr. Zwilling said the archdiocese, which is led by Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, would conduct its own inquiry once prosecutors had finished theirs.

“Father Rutler, after discussions with the archdiocese, voluntarily stepped away from his duties as pastor for the good of the parish and the archdiocese,” Mr. Zwilling said. “He does not have an assignment at this time. He is not serving as a priest.”

Eternal Word Television Network, the channel that has carried Father Rutler’s show, removed videos of him from its website after Ms. Gonzalez made her allegations last month.

Father Rutler has been the pastor of the Church of St. Michael the Archangel since 2013. The church’s website still lists him as pastor and also has links that people can use to buy his books and videos of his lectures.

“After consultation with Cardinal Dolan, who has been supportive, and for the good of our parish, I have willingly offered to step aside from my duties in our beloved parish,” Father Rutler wrote in the letter to the parish.

The accusations against Father Rutler come as New York’s attorney general, Letitia James, has been investigating Catholic dioceses in the state over their handling of sexual assault claims, including the powerful Archdiocese of New York.

The 19-second clip, which Ms. Gonzalez recorded as she sat in the back of the office on the couch, shows a man who looks like Father Rutler sitting in front of a computer and watching a gay pornographic video. Framed pictures of the pope and two cardinals hang on the wall above the desk.

Ms. Gonzalez, who is five feet tall, said she escaped from the room after elbowing Father Rutler forcefully in the chest and knocking him off balance enough for her to open the door. She ran through the church hallway and onto 34th Street, she said. It was almost 2 a.m.

Ms. Gonzalez said she then went to the nearby police precinct to file a report.

She said she had not been contacted by the police or the archdiocese in recent weeks, although she did speak to prosecutors last month. Earl S. Ward, her lawyer, said that prosecutors had the video of the priest that Ms. Gonzalez filmed.

Father Rutler has a decades-long following among Catholic conservatives. He is known for his criticism of Pope Francis, whom he has compared to Neville Chamberlain; his hostility to liberals (“They don’t believe in love because they don’t believe in souls”); and his description of “abortionists and the sodomites” as being “united in a commitment to death and to self-destruction.”

In a Fox News podcast interview last year, Father Rutler said he was skeptical of people who claimed they had been abused by Catholic priests. He said he believed that many people who claimed to be abuse victims were exploiting the church’s wider abuse scandal to make money.

“We now have this phenomenon of recovered memory, someone thinking something happened 40 or 50 years ago involving a so-called perpetrator, an alleged perpetrator, who is dead now and cannot defend himself,” Father Rutler said in the interview.

He added, “On the whole, I don’t know any institution that has gone out of its way to make reparations and to provide counseling as much as the church has.”

Ms. Gonzalez said she has not been able to return to work at M.G. Security, the firm hired by the church last month, since that night at St. Michael’s. She said the incident had sent her into a depressive spiral.

“It affected me in a way where I never want to go to church again,” she said.





No.20 article:
Soccer Faces a Cash Crunch. Its Leaders Aren’t Feeling It.

As their sport reels from the pandemic’s financial toll, FIFA’s top officials gathered Friday for a video call. Each will earn at least $80,000 just for listening.

Anywhere one looks around the world, the soccer industry is struggling with the financial effects of the coronavirus. Leagues are counting their losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Stadiums remain empty. Staff members are being furloughed. And players, even those at the richest clubs, have agreed to millions of dollars in pay cuts or salary deferrals.

But there is one group that has proved bulletproof from the costs of the pandemic: FIFA’s top executives.

While cost-cutting, resource-saving and painful decisions have become the norm in most of the soccer world, the men and women who sit on FIFA’s 37-member governing council continue to collect six-figure salaries that, for some, will amount to $250,000 this year but require their attendance at as few as three meetings. The most senior officials, who have added responsibilities, will earn even more; FIFA pays its vice presidents $300,000.

And merely showing up has been easier this year: With most international travel restricted or ill-advised, council members need only an internet connection and a comfortable chair to take part.

Asked about the lack of belt-tightening among its leaders, a spokesman for FIFA said the organization had achieved significant cost savings through the reduction of travel and the hosting of virtual meetings, rendering a re-evaluation of compensation unnecessary.

“No additional major cost cuts were needed to secure FIFA’s continuous support to the global football community throughout the pandemic,” the spokesman said.

For top executives, FIFA work is often only one of several hefty paydays. Several officials on the council also sit on the executive boards of their regional governing bodies, positions that offer their own significant financial benefits.

Executive committee members at UEFA, Europe’s governing body, for example, receive salaries of 160,000 euros a year (about $194,000), and its vice presidents are paid 250,000 euros (just over $300,000). South America’s governing body, CONMEBOL, pays the members of its executive board $20,000 a month, while CONCACAF, which is responsible for the sport in the Caribbean and Central and North America, distributes $135,000 a year to its senior leaders.

The size of such compensation packages was highlighted recently when it emerged that Greg Clarke, who was forced to resign as chairman of England’s Football Association after making inappropriate remarks during a parliamentary committee hearing, received more for the few days of work he contributed as one of FIFA’s vice presidents than he did in his day job leading English soccer. He was scheduled to earn even more next year, once he completed a planned move onto UEFA’s executive committee.

Yet among FIFA and its six regional confederations, only UEFA instituted cuts to executive pay this year: a reduction of 20 percent for the three months while its competitions were suspended.

Still, at a time when the soccer industry is expected to contract by billions of dollars, and when leagues and teams large and small face challenges that threaten their futures, FIFA’s decision to continue paying its executives six-figure net salaries has been brought into even starker focus. Only last week, Barcelona announced its players had agreed to pay cuts that would save the club almost $150 million.

“We’ve seen a lot of calls for solidarity and that we are in the same boat — this definitely contradicts that narrative,” said Ronan Evain, executive director for Football Supporters Europe, an umbrella body for fan groups. Fans across Europe, he said, have been asked to bear some of the pain affecting their teams by, in some cases, writing off some of the value of season tickets for games that they have not been able to attend.

“There’s definitely a contradiction being asked of fans, and not everyone is contributing the same,” Evain said.

On Friday, the FIFA Council held the last of its three scheduled meetings of the year. Like the others, it took place via videoconference.

During the pandemic, the calls have been shorter than ever, according to attendees. Most members never speak; some, in fact, have not said a word during one in years, longtime members say. And even before they meet, most of the important decisions have already been made by the bureau of the FIFA Council, a smaller group consisting of the FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, and the presidents of the six regional confederations. (Africa is not now represented on that body because its current president was barred from soccer last month.)

At Friday’s virtual gathering, for example, the council members ratified several proposals — approved by senior leaders last month — that will provide new protections and benefits for female players, including paid maternity leave. They were also asked to sign off on several scheduling and disciplinary matters.

As sports governance posts go, a FIFA Council seat is one of the most coveted sinecures in global sports. In most years, members are flown to exotic locations and housed in the finest hotels, and at meetings they often follow the lead of their regional presidents on votes. Now grounded, their only financial sacrifice appears to be the inability to claim the per diems available on every foreign trip.

Beyond the pay, though, the lifestyle enjoyed by FIFA Council members extends to privileged access and status that money can’t buy, including access to the best seats and the biggest matches.

Miguel Maduro, the former FIFA governance chief, said the pay and perks were parts of a system that rewards loyalty and ensures power is concentrated in a small group of top leaders.

“The narrative is one of representation from bottom up, a body where you have elected representatives that will in theory discuss and deliberate on the crucial issues of football,” Maduro said this week. “Instead, as we know, it doesn’t happen like that.”

Asked what could be done to reform a council to which some members contribute little, one longtime soccer official said a first step would be to reduce the number of board seats.

A better option, the official suggested, would be to “have everyone leave the building and leave the few capable ones inside and not let the others back in.”





No.21 article:
A New Way to Invest for the Vengeful and the High-Minded

Big investment managers are buying up companies that help with so-called direct indexing, which offers clients a way to boot individual companies from their portfolios. It has tax benefits, too.

Imagine a 401(k) where there’s no investment menu of stock funds. Instead, you get to make one that aligns with your values.

You could begin by knocking out oil drillers or gun manufacturers, or subtracting companies one by one depending on which ones have crossed you (or the world) lately. And when you’re done, you — and not a mutual fund — own individual pieces of every other security that you’re not beefing with, whether personally or as a citizen of the world.

Some of the biggest names on Wall Street can conjure up this tantalizing prospect, which is called direct indexing. And they’re buying up smaller firms that have already made it a reality for some wealthy investors.

Last month, BlackRock paid a cool $1.05 billion to snap up Aperio, a company that helps financial advisers invest client money this way. Earlier this year, Morgan Stanley entered this arena when it got hold of Parametric Portfolio Associates as part of its purchase of the old-line fund firm Eaton Vance.

Charles Schwab and Goldman Sachs have also made acquisitions in the general area.

So what do these direct-indexing entities do for investors now — and how many more people might benefit in the coming years?

Direct indexing starts out with a list of securities similar to the holdings of any index mutual fund that you might buy from Vanguard or Fidelity. Then, with the help of an intermediary, you buy shares (or fractions of shares) of only those securities that fit your customized plan.

Maybe you work for Google and get lots of stock as part of your compensation, so you want to avoid owning additional shares and those of other large tech companies.

Or maybe you are (or want to be) an investor focused on environmental, social or governance issues — the E.S.G. segment. You may wish to rid yourself of gun stocks, or avoid Wells Fargo, given how it treated its customers over the years, or Toyota, because it turned its back on stricter fuel economy standards in California.

Whatever companies you ditch, you still end up owning hundreds of stocks. And because you own those stocks and not a mutual fund, there are some big potential advantages: You can avoid capital gains taxes in many instances by selling the losers to offset growth in the winners.

The details get technical, and it’s a hard thing for human clients or even their advisers to manage manually. But it’s also important: If you’re in the highest tax brackets and live in a state with its own taxes, not paying attention to gains can cost you.

For investors who focus on mutual or exchange-traded funds, Parametric contends that these taxes can weigh down your returns even more than adviser fees or the costs of trading. Aperio bluntly notes on its website that “ignoring the impact of taxes is equal to willingly accepting lower performance.” A percentage point of your return can be at stake each year, possibly more.

Both companies use software to match your winners and losers to minimize your tax bills. (The companies will also help people who want to use charitable contributions of stock to keep taxes in line while maintaining the right balance in their stock portfolio.)

But we’re in rarefied air here. Most people — even more affluent people — don’t have the bulk of their money in brokerage accounts that are subject to capital gains taxes. Instead, their money tends to be in tax-deferred retirement accounts or 529 plans.

So how could way more people get access to the choose-your-own-adventure part of this approach? A couple of important factors are already in place: the decline and fall of trading commissions, and the rise of the ability to purchase fractional shares of stock.

Falling commissions, combined with technology that allows software to track a portfolio’s stocks, rebalance it or seek tax savings when appropriate on any given day, can keep overall costs reasonable. And buying fractional shares means that you don’t need nearly as much money to own several hundred bits of stock, since you don’t have to have $1,800 to buy a single share of Google.

And indeed, for all of Aperio’s boasting that its services are “designed for sophisticated wealth advisers” who “serve ultra high-net-worth clients,” the company has already been serving the masses, like synagogue preschool directors.

A few years ago, the pension board of the Reform Judaism movement took Aperio up on its offer to create an E.S.G. investment option for its 403(b) plan. The board used 100 years of social justice resolutions to shape the composition of the portfolio. Then, it added another tenet to its investment philosophy in order to own additional shares of companies that were Israeli or had made investments in Israel.

The fee for this customized investment is 0.15 percent annually for the first $10 million under management and then 0.10 percent beyond that. “You cannot find an E.S.G. mutual fund for that cheap in the marketplace,” said Michael Kimmel, the board’s chief executive. (A disclosure: Five years ago, I gave a talk about kids and money at the Reform movement’s annual conference.)

So what will it take for more employers to put together something like this? Or, better yet, when might administrators of workplace retirement plans allow individuals to build their own? (Or, for that matter, for firms like Vanguard and Fidelity to let people do this in their brokerage accounts?)

When I asked Parametric’s chief executive, Brian Langstraat, he joked that I must have been eavesdropping on Parametric’s calls with Morgan Stanley and its other new acquisition, E-Trade. “It’s certainly a topic of conversation within virtual Zoom calls pinging around the country,” he said.

One challenge is inertia. Mr. Kimmel, the pension board executive, noted that only about 2 percent of his retirement plan’s money moved to the new offering, even though many of his rabbis are social justice warriors.

Such slow going is common, though. As much as investors express interest in E.S.G. investing in surveys, it’s a pain to decipher new offerings, move money around and change advisers if yours is not down with the program.

A direct-indexing start-up called OpenInvest is more focused on bringing E.S.G. to the masses than catering primarily to the wealthiest among us. It faces the challenge of persuading financial advisers for people who are not in the 1 percent to make all of this more available.

“This is a storytelling industry that we’re in,” said Joshua Levin, a co-founder of OpenInvest who has written engagingly about the transformation that the company hopes to help spark.

At first, he thought that the shunning of Wells Fargo and Facebook, as favored by some of his customers, was the best tale to tell about what he and his colleagues were making possible. Now, he’s trying to get listeners to see the E.S.G. movement as a feature and not a product. The goal is for OpenInvest to be able to add its tools to existing portfolios without requiring someone to change advisers or do much more than push a single button.

“The lack of an engaged end consumer is what stymies innovation in the entire financial services industry,” he said. Which is not meant to insult the inert. “All we think about is mainstreaming this and what tech we can build to do this stuff.”

I asked Mr. Levin whether BlackRock had tried to buy his company too, and he wouldn’t say. But the fact that big players like that are circling this area suggests that they know how enticing bespoke, tax-friendly indexed portfolios are.

Start-ups being start-ups, Mr. Levin’s company may be just as likely to flame out as it is to turn into a unicorn. But no matter what, five years from now, I’d bet that many more of us will be investing this way. And we’ll probably be happier without misbehaving companies among our holdings.





No.22 article:
Indian Farmers’ Protests Spread, in Challenge to Modi

Many have burned their fields in defiance of antipollution laws. Some say that has worsened New Delhi’s air as the capital deals with a third coronavirus wave.

NEW DELHI — Before India’s farmers rose up in anger, presenting an increasingly difficult challenge to a government already grappling with the coronavirus outbreak and a devastating economic slump, Devinder Singh set his field on fire.

Mr. Singh would have preferred to clear his rice field. A 41-year-old farmer in the parched region of Punjab, he knew that setting piles of field waste on fire after harvest contributes to the pollution that often chokes New Delhi and the rest of northern India.

But he is one of thousands of farmers in an increasingly nationwide pushback against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposal to overhaul the way many of the country’s 146 million farms do business. Mr. Modi has said that his market-oriented reform would free them from the constraints of a state-run system.

Many Indian farmers believe the overhaul will lead to lower prices and pave the way for corporate takeovers of their small farms, which average less than three acres in size. Farmer protests that began choking the roads to New Delhi last week have spread, intensifying pressure on Mr. Modi’s government to strike a deal.

Mr. Singh, who joined the protests outside New Delhi, was also incensed by a new, pollution-focused government ordinance prescribing prison, a fine of up to 10 million rupees (about $135,000) or both for burning crop residue. So last month, when it came time to clear his field for the winter wheat season, he burned the rice straw instead.

“Most of the farmers, we have tried not to burn, but we wanted to show our resentment,” said Mr. Singh, who works a 17-acre farm in the Firozpur district of Punjab. “If you impose on us, we will burn it.”

Their defiance may be worsening problems in New Delhi. Deaths from the coronavirus are rising as the Indian capital grapples with a third wave of infections, exacerbated by worsening air pollution. Some experts say fires from angry farmers are contributing to the pollution. The government disputes the theory.

The two sides are set to resume talks on Saturday. While officials have said they will not give in and repeal the laws, they could compromise on one of the farmers’ demands: enshrining minimum prices for some crops into law.

In the meantime, the protests have spread beyond New Delhi. Farmers marched and waved banners in the southern states of Kerala and Karnataka and in the northeastern state of Assam. Sugar cane farmers in Uttar Pradesh, who would be less affected by the farm overhaul, set up a protest camp in solidarity, clogging a central artery on the state’s border with Delhi.

India’s foreign ministry summoned Canadian diplomats on Friday after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau voiced concern for the farmers during a Facebook Live session. The ministry said the comments constituted “unacceptable interference” and risked damaging ties between the two nations.

Mr. Modi’s government faced similarly widespread protests late last year after it enacted an anti-Muslim naturalization law. But these demonstrations present a trickier challenge.

Farmers represent a powerful political constituency for Mr. Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party. Farmers could also be important for bringing India out of its debilitating, coronavirus-driven recession. Agriculture has been a rare bright spot, with farmers continuing to purchase consumer goods and offering income for people who lost their jobs after Mr. Modi locked down the country to stop the pandemic earlier this year.

Outside New Delhi, protesters were settling in for a long wait.

At the village of Singhu, on the border between the territory of Delhi and the state of Haryana, protesters blocked several miles of highway. On a recent visit, they were cooking and serving food on long mats, spread on the ground in the style of Sikh temple kitchens, and sleeping on hay in tractor-trailers covered with canvas tarps. An armed barricade blocked the road to New Delhi.

Harjinder Singh, a wheat and cotton farmer in Gujarat, Mr. Modi’s home state, traveled more than 600 miles to join the protest. He said that farming had become untenable in Gujarat because farmers had no access to a state-run market that subsidizes their crops.

“I’ve got 100 acres there,” he said, “and now I’ve turned it into barren land because of the government’s rude policies.”

Angry farmers could make their worries felt beyond the protests.

After enjoying some of its cleanest air in memory during the lockdown, New Delhi has recorded day after day of catastrophically bad air. Pollution in the capital surges near the end of every year, as cold winds sweep down from the Himalayas and people try to keep warm, but the elevated levels amid the outbreak have prompted questions.

Farmers traditionally play a role in the annual pollution. Many set fire to large swaths of land to clear fields ahead of the winter wheat sowing season, a practice known as stubble burning. Farm fires have been estimated to contribute between 2 and 40 percent of Delhi’s air pollution during the period.

Experts say this year’s pollution levels could be blamed in part on displaced laborers returning to farms, resulting in more cultivating. Satellite data has registered the worst farm fires in four years. “Farm production is at a record level,” said Panwar Sudhir, a life sciences professor of zoology at the University of Lucknow who follows farming issues.

But Mr. Sudhir and other experts said farmers may be ignoring official threats and inducements to curb stubble burning as a way to protest. State authorities have long worked to discourage the practice, including offering the use of stubble-clearing tractors and paying farmers not to burn.

“What farmers were saying was if we are protesting, and you don’t listen to us, then we will burn the stubble,” said Ramandeep Singh Mann, an engineer turned farmers’ activist in Punjab.

Government officials dispute the idea of a direct connection.

“The farming laws have nothing to do with this pollution impact,” said Prakash Javadekar, India’s minister for the environment, adding that farmers will stop burning when they have a less costly alternative — a goal that the government wants to help them find.

“There will be more solutions in the offing,” he said.

Whatever the cause, the rise in pollution has been deadly as the coronavirus has made its way through New Delhi. Delhi has witnessed record daily infection numbers and its highest death toll since the pandemic began, registering 2,612 deaths in November.

“Pollution and cold waves worked like splashing petrol on the burning building,” said Dr. Nikhil Modi, a pulmonologist at Apollo hospital in New Delhi.

The pollution makes it harder for coronavirus victims, like Ritesh Agrawal’s diabetic mother, to breathe. Last month, after she said she was struggling to breathe, Mr. Agrawal immediately took her to be tested for Covid-19.

She tested positive, and doctors advised home isolation. But within hours of returning home, her oxygen levels plummeted.

Mr. Agrawal, a 41-year-old businessman in Delhi, said his mother died after being turned away from one hospital after another.

“I have money and connections,” Mr. Agrawal said. “But even that did not help.”

The Indian government has made fixing New Delhi’s pollution a priority. Mr. Javadekar said that the government has purchased a fleet of electric buses, expanded metro rail service and imposed steeper emission standards on personal cars. It has also pushed sooty refinery work outside the city limits. It monitors pollution levels from more than 3,000 industrial plants and notifies plant managers by text message when emissions exceed federal limits.

At the camp in Singhu, many of the farmers said they had no choice but to burn their waste. Many of the farmers from Punjab are Sikhs. For hundreds of years, males in that community have used the surname Singh to show their common bond.

That community is under threat, said Navdeep Singh, 30, a seventh-generation farmer from Amritsar in Punjab. Times are hard, he said, and government efforts like making tractors available are ultimately still too expensive.

“We are forced to burn,” Mr. Singh said, as he shelled peas for one of the demonstration camp’s free kitchens. “The government hasn’t really helped us with any other way to dispose of it.”





No.23 article:
The Best Books to Give This Year

Book Review





No.24 article:
Black Man Is Beaten on Camera, Thrusting French Police Into Spotlight

A music producer believes he’d be in jail unjustly if not for a video showing how officers assaulted him. Instead, the police are now in the eye of a political storm. And so is he.

PARIS — Without the video, Michel Zecler believes his case would have been reduced, at most, to a brief news item.

Maybe something like this: “A young man, Black, wearing a sweatshirt and a hood, a shoulder bag, assaulted police officers, attempted to seize their weapons,” Mr. Zecler said in an interview on Thursday.

“If I didn’t have my cameras, I’d be in prison today,” he added, referring to the security cameras in the vestibule of the building where he keeps his music studio.

The footage from those cameras, showing police officers gratuitously beating Mr. Zecler, 41, a producer well known in the world of French rap, has instead helped fuel a political crisis in France and once again turned a spotlight on the issue of police brutality, especially against the country’s minority citizens.

“What shocks me most is not that there are racist elements in the police,” Mr. Zecler said.  “What amazes me is that they felt confident enough to go that far, in their actions, in their words.” 

Mr. Zecler spoke with The New York Times in his studio, his first extensive interview since he became the focus of a national uproar that has forced President Emmanuel Macron’s government to scrap and rewrite part of a security bill that would have restricted the filming of police.

During the two-hour interview, Mr. Zecler cradled his damaged left arm and sometimes grimaced in pain. He had just returned from one of his many visits to the hospital for the multiple injuries he suffered, including a torn tendon in his arm, a head wound and bruises over his face and body. On Friday, he was due for an operation to repair the tendon.

ImageA still image from security camera footage showing Mr. Zecler being beaten by police officers. The video’s release on social media prompted an outcry in France.Credit...Michel Zecler/Gs Group, via Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesCritics say a provision in the security bill was aimed at snuffing out precisely the kinds of cellphone videos of the police roughing up demonstrators that have brought them under intense new scrutiny.

The video of Mr. Zecler’s beating was posted on social media on Nov. 26 by a French online news site, Loopsider,  something that may have been rendered illegal had the law gone through. 

But, rather than a distorted version of his assault appearing in a brief news item, the image of Mr. Zecler’s badly pummeled and bloodied face was seen all over France.

In an interview Friday with Brut, a news site popular among the young, Mr. Macron said that there was “nothing to excuse, to justify’’ the beating. The contested provision in his security bill, which was part of a concerted political shift aimed at fortifying the president’s right flank from nationalist challengers, was torpedoed.

The impact was such that some are now drawing parallels with the clip showing the killing in the United States of George Floyd, which sparked protests over racism and police brutality across the globe, including in French cities.

Mr. Zecler said he still had trouble sleeping. His mind kept returning to the assault, he said, focusing on “the look of the police officers, the hatred” in their eyes and the racial slur they used against him, “dirty” with the N-word.

He was held for two days in police custody, but the video quickly led to his release, contradicting the initial testimony of the three police officers.

According to the Paris prosecutor, the officers, who denied using a racial slur, said Mr. Zecler had drawn their attention because he was not wearing a mask and because he smelled strongly of marijuana. They accused him of pulling them by force into the studio, of inflicting violence against them and of resisting arrest.

The video, and Mr. Zecler, tell a different story.

On the evening of Nov. 21, Mr. Zecler — who said he had forgotten to wear a mask, which is required under pandemic guidelines — said he was walking to the entrance of his studio, Black Gold, in the 17th arrondissement, a wealthy neighborhood in Paris.

The video then shows three police officers bursting into the studio’s entrance without, Mr. Zecler said, any verbal warning. Mr. Zecler, who said he repeatedly told the officers that he was in his own business premises and asked why they were inside, said he wasn’t even certain whether they were real police officers at first.

According to the video, the officers, unable to pull him outside, closed the door behind them. Then inside the cramped entrance area, they are seen beating him — for a total of six minutes, according to the Paris prosecutor.

The video shows the officers repeatedly punching and kicking Mr. Zecler, and hitting him with a baton, even as he took the blows without retaliating.

Though there have been high-profile cases involving police brutality against Blacks and Arabs in recent years, it is difficult to get a precise measure of the problem because it is illegal to keep data on race in France.

But a rare official investigation by the Defender of Rights, an independent official body, in 2017 found that young men perceived as Black or Arab were 20 times more likely to have their identities checked. Some 80 percent reported having been subjected to at least one check in the previous five years, compared with only 16 percent of the rest of the population.

Mr. Macron, in the interview with Brut on Friday, acknowledged that “today, when your skin color is not white, you’re checked more often,’’ adding that such a fact was “unbearable.”

Since the video was made public, Mr. Zecler, a man used to discretion, said he has been bewildered by the storm he has been thrust into, and was wary of being exploited politically.

He has received widespread support from ordinary people, political leaders and celebrities, including the world’s most popular Francophone singer, Aya Nakamura, who tweeted, “Thank you to the cameras and courage to Michel.”

But some media on the extreme right — including those courted aggressively by Mr. Macron — have attacked his credibility by emphasizing a criminal record from his youth.

Mr. Zecler’s shoulder bag contained a small amount of marijuana, 0.5 grams, according to the prosecutor. Mr. Zecler said he did not smoke and that the marijuana had been left behind in his studio by one of his artists.

Charges against Mr. Zecler were dropped after the authorities examined the security camera footage, and the officers are now under investigation.

Though cleared, Mr. Zecler said he wanted to understand why he was targeted.

“I need to know,” he said, wondering whether it was because they saw “a Black man who seemed to come from a working-class district in this particularly well-off district of the 17th” arrondissement.

The beating took place, it turned out, half a day after he and his business partner, Valérie Atlan, uploaded a new music video with an anti-violence theme and a message of “love is stronger than hate.’’

After spending the first few years of his life in Martinique, a French island in the Caribbean, Mr. Zecler grew up with his mother and younger brother in low-rent housing in Bagneux,  a banlieue, or suburb, of Paris. His mother, a health care assistant, often worked nights, and the family was always short of money.

Perhaps because they were newcomers and because he was Black, his mother always told him to be discreet, Mr. Zecler said.

“Don’t get yourself noticed,” his mother told him often. “We’re very discreet.”

The advice has stayed with him. “If we’re invited to a party, I won’t stand up to go eat, never the first one,” he said.

But in his teens, drawn by the easy money that some of his peers appeared to be making in Bagneux, he committed armed robberies, he said, entering prison when he was 17 and coming out when he was 24.

Some in the world of rap music might have worn the time in prison as a badge of honor. But he said he never talked about it, feeling “shame.” Seventeen years after getting out of prison, he wanted to focus on the company he had built and the success he had earned.

“I left Bagneux and made it to the 17th,” he said. “I’m proud.”

Olivier Cachin, a journalist specializing in the genre, said Mr. Zecler was “very well respected in the world of rap. He’s one of those men in the shadows. It’s not somebody whose face appears in the newspapers.”

Having successfully rebuilt his life, Mr. Zecler said he believed in justice and did not want to lose faith in it because of the beating. He didn’t want the young artists who record with him to be filled with hate. He counted police officers among his friends and said he knew there were many good ones in the force.

“That’s very important,” he said. “Some elements certainly need to be fixed. But we can’t talk about everyone in one sentence.”





No.25 article:
Naomi Long Madgett, Champion of Black Poets, Is Dead at 97

The longtime poet laureate of Detroit, she was as well known for publishing the work of others as she was for her own verse.

Naomi Long Madgett was 17 when her first book of poetry was published, and just 26 when her work appeared in an anthology co-edited by Langston Hughes, an early mentor, that covered 200 years of Black poetry — a new name among the greats.

Her elegant, exacting and lyrical poems — which invited comparisons to Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson — addressed a breadth of themes: social justice, romantic love, women’s histories, religious devotion and the craft of poetry itself.

Yet she was almost as well known as a publisher and editor of poetry, an accidental career that began in her Detroit basement when she couldn’t find the right press for her fourth book and decided to put it out herself. Lotus Press, her imprint, would go on to present, often for the first time, the work of Black writers like Herbert Woodward Martin, Dolores Kendrick, James A. Emmanuel and Toi Derricotte.

Despite its literary prestige, Lotus Press stayed in Ms. Madgett’s basement, and for decades she ran it mostly by herself. (In its first years, she invented an editorial assistant and named her Connie Withers — a nod to her middle name, Cornelia, and her first married name, Witherspoon — to give the imprint corporate heft.)

Ms. Madgett, who had been the poet laureate of Detroit since 2001, died on Nov. 5 at 97 at her home in West Bloomfield, Mich., her daughter, Jill Witherspoon Boyer, said.

“I felt that publishing other poets was more important than the work of one poet,” Ms. Madgett said in “Star by Star,” a 2001 documentary about her life directed by David Schock. Still, she managed to write 11 books of her own; her most recent, “You Are My Joy and Pain,” its title taken from a line in the Billie Holiday song “Don’t Explain,” came out in January.

“You Are My Joy and Pain” is a collection of love poems that describe the rich contours of a well-seasoned heart. In the poem “Packrat,” she writes:

My trouble isI always tryto save everythingold clocks and calendarsexpired words buriedin open gravesBut hoarded grains of sandkeep shifting as riversredefine boundaries and seasons

“I found it masterful and extremely daring,” Ms. Derricotte said of Ms. Madgett’s last collection. “I often wondered if what she did for others was taking away from her own work. Sometimes poets have to be very selfish, and she was always saying, when I’d ask her about her own writing, ‘I’ll get to it when this book is done.’”

Ms. Madgett was also an educator. She taught high school English for over a decade, and she created her own curriculum in the 1960s to make up for the scarcity of African-American authors in the textbooks of the era — a bit of academic activism that inspired the Detroit public school system to make her own work required reading. She joined the English department at Eastern Michigan University in 1968 and retired as professor emerita in 1984.

Her most famous poem, “Midway,” written in 1959, was a response to Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court ruling that found racial segregation in public schools to be unconstitutional. Taking its rhythms from spirituals, its three stanzas note the terrible histories of African-Americans and celebrate the milestone of social progress, while acknowledging how much more still needed to be accomplished. It concludes with these lines:

I’ve seen the daylight breaking high above the bough.I’ve found my destination and I’ve made my vow;So whether you abhor meOr deride me or ignore meMighty mountains loom before me and I won’t stop now.

“Midway,&quot; as Ms. Madgett often said, lived a life of its own. It has been set to music, anthologized over and over, reproduced without permission, misquoted and published anonymously. It was also Ms. Madgett’s least favorite poem. She deemed it of “dubious literary merit,” and “seriously flawed.”

“I don’t know what’s wrong with it,” she said on more than one occasion, “but I don’t know how to fix it.”

No one seemed to agree with her.

“I don’t think it’s flawed at all,” Melba Joyce Boyd, a Detroit-based poet, essayist and editor and distinguished professor of African-American studies at Wayne State University, said in a phone interview. “I can see why people connect to it. I’m writing a chapter on Detroit for a book about policing, and I keep thinking about that poem. It seems like you’re always midway.

“Naomi is presenting the idea that the struggle is eternal,” she added. “It’s not a race you can win. You just have to keep moving.”

Naomi Cornelia Long was born on July 5, 1923, in Norfolk, Va. Her father, Clarence Marcellus Long, was a noted Baptist minister; her mother, Maude Selena (Hilton) Long, had been a teacher before her marriage. Naomi grew up in East Orange, N.J., a deeply segregated city where the school she and her two brothers attended was marked by entrenched racial prejudice.

She recalled being the only Black child in the A section of her grade, in a school that relegated most Black children to the C section. When her father accepted a post as minister of a church in St. Louis and she entered the all-Black Sumner High School there, her life was irrevocably changed. She remembered arriving during the hush of an induction ceremony for the National Honor Society and being transfixed.

“Here is a place you can be anything you are good enough to be,” she recalled thinking, “and I took off running.”

Naomi had been writing poetry since she was 7 and had her first poem printed in a local newspaper when she was 13. Her father, whom she adored, thought her poems were good enough to be published as a book, and he submitted them to a publishing house when she was 17, guaranteeing that he could persuade a certain number of people to buy it.

She had met Langston Hughes when she was 15 and attended a reading of his in St. Louis. When Mr. Hughes later gave a reading at her college, Virginia State University, she gave him her work, and he read it along with his, after which he became a lifelong mentor. She earned a bachelor’s degree in English from Virginia State and a master’s of education from Wayne State University. She worked briefly at a newspaper and for the phone company while working toward her teaching degree — all while writing poetry and publishing two collections.

Her marriage to Julian Witherspoon, a lawyer and activist she had met in high school, ended in divorce. So did her marriage to William Harold Madgett, a postal worker. After that, she later said, she was determined not to marry again, because she didn’t trust her own judgment. But Leonard Andrews, an educator and school principal, was a man too good to pass up, she said in “Star by Star,” and “that was the marriage that worked.”

In 2012, Ms. Madgett won a Kresge Foundation Eminent Artist Award, perhaps Detroit’s highest cultural honor. It was one of hundreds of awards she received during her lifetime, including three honorary degrees. She retired three years later from Lotus Press, which at that point merged with another homegrown poetry publisher, Broadside Press.

In addition to her daughter, Ms. Boyer, Ms. Madgett is survived by her stepchildren, Harold Madgett Jr., Gerald Madgett, Sharilyn Brown and Kathryn Andrews; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.

Ms. Boyer has spent the weeks since her mother’s death going through her belongings, and she discovered a note tucked into a package of photographs. It congratulated Ms. Madgett on her work, and was signed, simply, “Langston.”





No.26 article:
‘What Can I Feel? The Most Important Is That We Are Alive’

A village on the frontline of the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia welcomes peace — after more than two decades.

CIRAQLI, Azerbaijan — The fate of the people of Ciraqli, in a rural corner of the southern Caucasus, had long been forgotten by the outside world since a war between Azerbaijan and Armenia halted in a cease-fire in 1994. But the conflict never ended for the villagers.

The cease-fire left the two armies facing each other along a front line, barely a few hundred yards apart. Dug in behind big earth berms, the soldiers sporadically traded sniper and artillery rounds for the next 26 years.

And so the people of Ciraqli have lived with war on their doorstep beside their own version of the Berlin Wall.

When Azerbaijan launched an offensive in September to retake territory it lost in the war, Armenian forces replied with a ferocious barrage of missiles that sent most of the villagers fleeing for their lives.

Now that peace has come, negotiated by the Russian government after six weeks of fighting, villagers were back home, picking up the pieces and patching up their roofs with a mixture of weariness and hope.

“It was difficult,” said Vugar Aslanov, 51, one recent afternoon, as he cleared debris from a mortar strike on his barn. “Imagine, there is the enemy,” he said, gesturing across his yard.

Black smoke rose from across the fields, where Armenian troops were packing up — and burning buildings — as they prepared to withdraw from the area under the peace deal. “We could not go to the fields, or on to the roof of the house because there is very little distance between us and them.”

Stone walls run along the properties on one side of the village and high mud berms guarded by military lookout posts mark the frontline beyond. Several ruined houses stand abandoned in a bare stretch of land that for decades was a no-man’s land.

Over the years the casualties mounted on both sides into the thousands. The International Crisis Group counted more than 1,600 fatal casualties along the 100-mile-long Line of Contact in sporadic fire in just five years from 2015 to this year. The majority were military personnel but 256 were civilians living and farming along the line of contact.

International monitors of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe made visits to the line twice a month but otherwise there was little mechanism to enforce the 1994 cease-fire.

The frontline through Ciraqli village divided family properties and cut farmers off from their fields and the market towns where they sold their produce.

Sveta Bayramova and her husband, Fikret Mamedov, built a wall at the end of their orchard to screen off their home from Armenian lookout posts. Their noisy flock of geese in the garden helped guard against intruders.

Once in the middle of the night Ms. Bayramova surprised an Armenian military reconnaissance unit scouting out their backyard. Azerbaijani soldiers were creeping up on them and when she shouted, a shootout broke out. One Armenian soldier was captured but the rest fled back over the berm.

“I have been living here 28 years and we did not feel scared a single day,” she said defiantly.

She lost her father in 1994 in the last days of the first war. A sniper shot and killed him as he was driving back from work near the frontline, she said.

It took her brother two weeks of searching before he found the car with his father still inside, but her brother was captured and taken prisoner by Armenian soldiers before he could retrieve his body.

Her brother was released but Ms. Bayramova said he never recovered from his ordeal and died of an aneurysm two years later.

His ruined home stands in a buffer zone just beyond her garden wall. Her sister’s house is also in no-man’s land, she said. To the right she pointed out an Armenian guard post atop the earth berm within sight of her wall.

Her siblings and relatives moved away from the village but she stayed on with her husband, who is a schoolteacher, and they raised three children just yards from the frontline.

The Azerbaijani army set up a camp on the edge of the village and the government helped families build protective walls along the edge of their properties to guard against stray bullets. But the toll continued.

One afternoon in January 2000, Mr. Aslanov’s father was herding his sheep and cows in the field by his house. “An Armenian sniper shot him,” Mr. Aslanov said. “He was shot under the arm. He lost a lot of blood and died.”

Mr. Aslanov, like most men in the village, is a veteran of the first war. He moved with his wife, who is disabled, and their two children to a nearby town when the war flared anew in September.

Those who stayed hunkered in their homes along with a few local policemen, demonstrating a resilient stubbornness.

They survived a monthlong barrage of rocket and mortar fire.

“It was dangerous,” said Hikmet Mamedov, 36, a wiry farmer in a leather jacket, “but why should I leave?” (Several of the villagers bore the same surname but said they were not related.)

In the war that ended in the 1994 cease-fire, Armenian forces seized control of Nagorno-Karabakh — a territory that was populated mostly by ethnic Armenians but legally part of Azerbaijan — and seven surrounding districts. They built extensive defenses against an attack by Azerbaijani forces along this part of the frontline because it offered the shortest route to Stepanakert, the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh.

Azerbaijani forces made the main thrust of their attacks on Nagorno-Karabakh in the south and never breached the frontline near Ciraqli. But that did not stop the two sides bombarding each other’s positions.

Almost half the village was badly damaged in the recent fighting.

Rovshan Mamedov, 68, stood shocked and barely able to speak as he inspected the burnt-out shell of his home just yards from the frontline. “I left 15 minutes before it happened,” he said. “We heard shells coming in so we left.”

He is now living with his wife and two grown sons in a school in a nearby town with other displaced families. “What can I feel? The most important is that we are alive,” he said.

At the other end of the village, near the small army base, Elman Mamedov and his wife Parvana had salvaged their belongings into the only downstairs room that was undamaged. Three rockets had hit the two-story building, crashing through the roof and ceilings into the rooms below.

“Bullets used to come but we were not expecting bombs,” Ms. Mamedova said.

“Before the war, everything was very nice,” her husband said, looking out from his destroyed front porch. He fought in the war and lost his brother in 1993 in the fighting in the town of Aghdam, a few miles west of the village, he said.

He voiced a quiet satisfaction that the tables had turned. “We are in a different position now,” he said. “The people who left will come back.”

Most of the villagers are small farm holders and were happy that with the departure of Armenian forces they would gain access to fields across the frontline. “We are going to have our lands back,” Mr. Aslanov said. “We will celebrate when they have gone,” his son, Sahin, 18, added.

Above all, they would welcome the absence of gunfire, Hikmet Mamedov said.

“We are not going to be scared to let our kids outside,” he said. “We saw these wars, but we don’t want our children to see them.”





No.27 article:
Trump Orders All American Troops Out of Somalia

While the number of forces — about 700 — is small, it is a continuation of President Trump’s efforts to withdraw the United States from what he has described as endless wars.

WASHINGTON — President Trump, pressing his end-of-term troop withdrawals from conflicts around the world, will pull American forces out of Somalia, where they have been trying to push back advances by Islamist insurgents in the Horn of Africa.

The Pentagon announced on Friday that virtually all of the approximately 700 troops in Somalia — most Special Operations forces who have been conducting training and counterterrorism missions — will be leaving by Jan. 15, five days before President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is scheduled to be inaugurated.

The withdrawal from Somalia followed Mr. Trump’s orders to reduce the American presence in Afghanistan and Iraq, and reflected the president’s longstanding desire to end long-running military engagements against Islamist insurgencies in failed and fragile countries in Africa and the Middle East, a grinding mission that has spread since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

The debate over the value of counterterrorism and training missions like the one in Somalia, the site of the bloody “Black Hawk Down” debacle in 1993, is growing — among the public, in Congress and even in the Pentagon. Among the points of contention is whether the United States should expend life and treasure for shadowy security operations in remote parts of the world.

But Mr. Trump’s push to leave Somalia before he leaves office comes at a delicate time for the East African nation: It is preparing for parliamentary elections next month and a presidential election scheduled for early February. The removal of American troops could complicate any ability to keep election rallies and voting safe from Shabab bombers. It also comes at a time of political turmoil in neighboring Ethiopia, whose army has also battled the Shabab.

Supporters of the mission say it is important for the United States to continue strikes on militants and to help train government forces to prevent their territory from becoming a haven for planning terrorist strikes, much like how Al Qaeda plotted the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks from a home base in Afghanistan. Even some of Mr. Trump’s staunchest Republican allies in Congress have warned against troop cuts in Somalia.

“This strategy has worked, and our continued presence there has prevented Al Shabab from expanding its foothold in the region,” Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement this fall when hints of Mr. Trump’s likely actions surfaced.

Many of the American troops will be “repositioned” to nearby Kenya, a Defense Department official said Friday. That means airstrikes by drones on militants in Somalia could continue, but efforts to effectively train local security forces on the ground would end.

It was not immediately clear whether other parts of the American presence in Somalia — such as C.I.A. officers, the ambassador and other State Department diplomats who are based at a heavily fortified bunker at the airport in Mogadishu, the Somali capital — will also withdraw.

The Pentagon pledged that efforts to safeguard American interests would continue.

“The U.S. is not withdrawing or disengaging from Africa,” it said in a statement. “We remain committed to our African partners and enduring support through a whole-of-government approach.”

The United States will retain the ability to conduct counterterrorism operations in Somalia, especially drone strikes, and to collect early warnings and indicators regarding threats to the United States and allies from militant forces in the country.

“As a result of this decision, some forces may be reassigned outside of East Africa,” the statement said, adding that “the remaining forces will be repositioned from Somalia into neighboring countries in order to allow cross-border operations by both U.S. and partner forces to maintain pressure against violent extremist organizations operating in Somalia.”

The mission in Somalia has been in the spotlight in recent days, after it was reported that a veteran C.I.A. officer was killed in combat in Somalia, according to current and former American officials. The death has already rekindled debate over American intelligence’s counterterrorism operations in Africa. The officer was a member of the C.I.A.’s paramilitary division, the Special Activities Center, and a former member of the Navy’s elite SEAL Team 6.

Two weeks ago, Mr. Trump ordered the military to withdraw forces from Afghanistan, halving the number there to just over 2,000. Reductions in the American troop presence in Iraq also are underway.

Also this week, the Pentagon policy official overseeing the military’s efforts to combat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria was fired after a White House appointee told him that the United States had won that war and that his office had been disbanded. The ouster of the official, Christopher P. Maier, the chief of the Pentagon’s “Defeat ISIS” task force since March 2017, came just three weeks after Mr. Trump fired Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper and three other Pentagon officials and replaced them with loyalists.

The acting defense secretary, Christopher C. Miller, who has been carrying out Mr. Trump’s purge at the Pentagon since he took over from Mr. Esper last month, characterized the moves as a reflection of the success of the American-led effort to crush the terrorist state that the Islamic State created in large sections of Iraq and Syria.

Defense Department officials familiar with internal deliberations said the Somalia pullout would not apply to American forces stationed in nearby Kenya and Djibouti, where American drones that carry out airstrikes in Somalia are based.

Keeping those air bases would mean retaining the military’s ability to use drones to attack militants with the Shabab, a Qaeda-linked terrorist group — at least those deemed to pose a threat to American interests.

Since Mr. Trump ran for office in 2016, exiting foreign conflicts has been a central component of his “America First” agenda. That appeal has particularly animated his base of populist voters, many of them veterans who have grown weary of their roles in longstanding wars. The president views his record on the issue as important to any political future he might pursue.

Most American troops in Somalia are Special Operations forces stationed at a small number of bases across the country. Their missions include training and advising Somali Army and counterterrorism troops and conducting kill-or-capture raids targeting Shabab militants.

The Pentagon has long argued that the United States can safely leave areas contested by militants when the local governments can safeguard their own territory. Mr. Trump’s order means direct training efforts with Somalia security forces would end.

For years, Somalia has faced civil war, droughts and violence from Islamist extremists. The United States intervened in the country as peacekeepers, but abandoned it not long after the “Black Hawk Down” battle in 1993, which killed 18 Americans and hundreds of militia fighters.

The Shabab, whose name means “the youth,” emerged around 2007 and have violently vied for control of Somalia with occasional attacks outside its borders, including a shooting in 2013 at the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, that killed more than five dozen civilians and a deadly assault in January on an American air base at Manda Bay, Kenya.

Shabab leaders pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda in 2012. In 2016, shortly before leaving office, Obama administration officials deemed them part of the congressionally authorized war against the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks. Under the Trump administration, the military sharply increased airstrikes targeting Shabab militants.





No.28 article:
What’s the Deal With Russell Westbrook?

Despite being a regular All-Star and former M.V.P., Westbrook is headed to his third team in three years. His value appears to be a matter of opinion.

Russell Westbrook is a Most Valuable Player Award winner. He is regularly an All-Star (nine times in 12 seasons) and will almost assuredly be a first-ballot Hall of Famer when his career ends. He has led the league in scoring twice and once scored 43 points in an N.B.A. finals game. He just turned 32 last month and if all goes well, he should have several All-Star seasons left in him.

It is a basketball résumé that many players dream of but only a tiny handful attain.

So why is Westbrook, who was traded this week from Houston to the Washington Wizards for John Wall and a draft pick, about to be on his third team in three years? This is virtually unheard-of for a former M.V.P. It happened to Derrick Rose (the 2011 M.V.P.) too, but his on-court productivity was seriously hampered by injuries. Shaquille O’Neal (2000) and Moses Malone (the M.V.P. in 1979, 1982 and 1983) also played on three different teams in three years, but it was in the waning years of their careers, not at their heights.

Westbrook, still in his prime and remarkably durable, is one of the most divisive N.B.A. stars in recent decades, even more so after last season’s up-and-down year with the Rockets. He is the latest in a long line of stars where analysts and fans have questioned whether his style of play is conducive to winning a championship, much like Allen Iverson (who won the M.V.P. in 2001).

Westbrook’s traditional statistics and accolades are eye-popping. But as statistics have evolved in recent years, some of the advanced numbers have not been friendly to him. Perhaps no star player has been more of a lightning rod than Westbrook. Is he a bona fide superstar? Or does he accumulate stats at the expense of wins and his teammates? Sure, his counting stats (typically referring to points, rebounds and assists) are elite. But why isn’t that reflected in advanced analytics?

Here is a look at some of those numbers and the debates surrounding them.

No statistic is more commonly associated with Westbrook than triple-doubles (games in which a player reaches double digits in three categories; typically points, rebounds and assists).

When a player has one of these, it is considered a noteworthy accomplishment. That Westbrook averaged a triple-double for the entire 2016-17 season was remarkable, given that the only other player to accomplish the feat in N.B.A. history was Oscar Robertson of the Cincinnati Royals, who did it in 1961-62. After matching Robertson’s feat, Westbrook put an exclamation point on the accomplishment by doing it in each of the next two seasons as well.

That three-season stretch with the Thunder is — on paper — one of the greatest runs by a player in N.B.A. history. People assumed Robertson’s accomplishment would be impossible to match in the modern game, but Westbrook made it look easy.

Critics contended that the scheme that Coach Billy Donovan employed, which called for Westbrook’s teammates to give up rebounds for Westbrook, inflated Westbrook’s numbers. Westbrook was accused of being a “stat-padder” who chased triple-doubles over wins. The critics pointed to the Thunder being eliminated in the first round of the playoffs in all three seasons in which Westbrook averaged a triple-double as evidence. They have also noted that the triple-double is an arbitrary statistic: Someone could score 35 points, grab 9 rebounds and have 19 assists and it would not be considered a triple-double.

It is actually more complicated than that, at least from a numbers perspective.

During the regular season, the Thunder had a significantly higher winning percentage when Westbrook attained a triple-double than when he did not.

In the 2016-17 and 2017-18 seasons, the Thunder went 53-14 (a .791 winning percentage) when Westbrook attained a triple-double; roughly a 65-win pace in an 82-game regular season. In both of those years, the Thunder had a losing record when Westbrook played but did not get one. In the 2016-17 season, Westbrook’s M.V.P. year, the Thunder were 13-26 in those games.

For the 2018-19 season, Westbrook’s final season in Oklahoma City, the Thunder went 23-11 (a .676 win percentage) when Westbrook had a triple-double, and 21-18 when Westbrook played but did not get one (.538 win percentage). They were 5-4 when Westbrook did not play.

But Westbrook’s approach didn’t exactly make for great offense in Oklahoma City. In two of the three seasons in which he averaged a triple-double, the Thunder had a below-average offense, and they were tied for eighth in the other one.

Where Westbrook is hounded most by his critics is for his inefficiency as a scorer. He’s a terrible outside shooter for a guard, with a career mark from 3-point range of just 30.5 percent. In his lone season with Houston, he shot 25.8 percent. In today’s pace-and-space N.B.A., not being a passable shooter can be a hindrance to offenses.

Beyond that, Westbrook needs a lot of shots to score the points that he does. His true shooting percentage — a measure of efficiency that takes into account 3-pointers and free throws — has been below average for most of his career. It is at 53 percent, while last year’s league average, for example, was 56.5 percent.

There also appears to be a gap between how traditional numbers and some advanced statistics view Westbrook.

For example, last year, Westbrook averaged 27.2 points, 7.9 rebounds and 7 assists per game and shot 47.2 percent from the field. It was enough to make him an All-Star and All-N.B.A. third team.

However, Westbrook’s win shares per 48 minutes — a statistic that attempts to show how much value players bring to their team per minute, extrapolated to a regulation N.B.A. game — paints a different picture. At .098, Westbrook was ranked 101st in the league. For his career, Westbrook has been in the top 10 in this measure just four times, and not since his M.V.P. season.

Westbrook has played with multiple A-list N.B.A. stars: Paul George, James Harden and Kevin Durant. He will now join Bradley Beal, who finished second in the N.B.A. in points per game last season. Westbrook, though, can seemingly only be successful if he controls the offense with the ball in his hands. His career usage rate — a measure of what percentage of a team’s plays a player is involved in — is 32.7 percent, the second highest in N.B.A. history. The optimal modern superstar can provide production as efficiently as possible. Westbrook has never been accused of efficiency.

But it should be noted: George, Harden and Durant have all thrived playing next to Westbrook. Last year, Harden led the N.B.A. in scoring and put together one of the best N.B.A. regular seasons in history. In 2018-19, George, as Westbrook’s partner in Oklahoma City, had by far his best year (28 points per game) and finished third in M.V.P. voting. Durant won four scoring titles as Westbrook’s teammate and the pair led the Thunder to an N.B.A. finals. Durant also won the 2013-14 M.V.P. with Westbrook as his teammate, with the caveat that Westbrook missed 36 games that season and had a higher usage rate than Durant in the games he played.

Westbrook really came alive in the second half of last season, before faltering in the playoffs. After the All-Star break, Westbrook averaged 27.5 points, 7.0 rebounds and 6.7 assists in 27 games on 55.7 true shooting. He even shot 37.5 percent on 3-point attempts.

He can clearly still play at an elite level, and pairing him with Bradley Beal will make for an intriguing combination. The Wizards went 25-47 last season in a weaker conference. Adding Westbrook should, at least, put the Wizards in playoff contention. But can they make actual noise in the playoffs? Westbrook’s recent history suggests no.





No.29 article:
A $900 Billion Plan Would Help the Economy, but Not Fix It

While a compromise package gaining steam in Congress would provide urgent help to the economy, some people and businesses would be left out in the cold.

The economic recovery, slowing for months, is in danger of going into reverse. That’s why a growing list of economists, business lobbyists and other advocacy groups are urging lawmakers to rally around the $908 billion aid package currently gaining bipartisan support in Congress.

A plan of that size would fall short of doing everything that economists argue Congress should do to help workers and businesses during the coronavirus pandemic. But they said that if lawmakers could get the details right, Congress should do it anyway.

“It’s within the range where you could argue it does enough good that it would be worth taking it,” said William E. Spriggs, a Howard University economist who served in the Labor Department under President Barack Obama. “But it leaves a ton on the table, and still leaves us with a big problem going forward.”

The $908 billion compromise is not even a legislative proposal yet. It is a bipartisan framework, assembled by a group of senators led by Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia. Many of its details are still being negotiated, including how the government ought to distribute more aid to small businesses.

Once the bill is complete, its success is not assured: Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has stopped short of endorsing it, and so has President Trump, who would need to sign any legislation approved in the lame-duck congressional session. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has backed it as a starting point for renewed negotiations, and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Friday that he was “encouraged” by the effort.

Experts say the plan would provide relief to several battered corners of the economy. It includes nearly $300 billion for small-business aid, $180 billion for unemployed workers, and $160 billion for state, local and tribal governments.

The plan wouldn’t help everyone who needs aid, and the support might not last long enough to bridge the economy to the rebound that is expected to come when coronavirus vaccines are widely distributed. And much depends on the details, particularly when they come to Americans who have been unemployed for months and small businesses that struggled to tap government programs early in the pandemic.

But if the plan was passed soon, it would send money out quickly. And with virus cases rising and economic gains stalling, a growing number of politicians are willing to accept such a compromise.

“You get most of the way there, you don’t turn around at the end,” said Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, one of several Republican governors who has called for more federal aid. “We can’t stop now, and I guess I would say that to my friends in Congress: We need your help one more time here. Help get us through what’s going to be a very tough winter.”

November employment data released by the Labor Department on Friday underscored his point. Job growth slowed to 245,000, the weakest monthly gain of the recovery so far. The number of people trapped in long-term unemployment rose to nearly four million. Restaurants and retailers, whose rehiring of furloughed workers helped power the rebound in earlier months, cut jobs in November. The number of people who have lost their jobs permanently rose, the latest sign that the crisis will leave lasting economic scars.

“I do feel a greater sense of urgency now, especially after seeing the jobs report,” said Karen Dynan, a Harvard economist and former Treasury Department official in the Obama administration. “We’re really starting to see the cracks now.”

Perhaps the top goal for the aid package is preventing millions of families from losing their only source of income the week after Christmas.

As many as 13 million Americans are receiving benefits under two programs that expanded and extended the existing unemployment insurance program. Those programs, created by Congress in the spring, are set to expire at the end of the year — an outcome that members of both political parties have said they want to avoid.

The aid package being discussed in Congress would extend both programs, while also reviving the extra unemployment benefit that expired over the summer, most likely at half the original $600-a-week level. But depending on how the negotiations go, it may not further extend eligibility for people who are close to the end of their benefits already.

Putting money into the pockets of the unemployed could be good for the broader economy: Research has found that unemployment benefits are among the most effective forms of economic stimulus because recipients are likely to spend rather than save the money. And by helping families avoid foreclosures, evictions and debt defaults, unemployment benefits can prevent the financial damage from spreading.

But the most compelling argument may be not economic but humanitarian: Without the money, many families could go hungry, become homeless and face other hardships.

“If households are in financial catastrophe, then we have a moral obligation as a country to help households regardless of what their spending or not spending does to the aggregate economy,” said Wendy Edelberg, director of the Hamilton Project, an economic policy arm of the Brookings Institution.

Money in the proposal would similarly provide a lifeline to some small businesses that risk closing for good amid weak demand between now and when vaccines become available. Even large companies could be hurt if many smaller firms go under, which is one reason large business groups have called for immediate aid to small companies.

“Jobs created by small businesses impact big businesses’ ability to sell to those people,” said Suzanne Clark, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “So we’re really worried about the totality of the ecosystem and the number of small businesses just hanging on by a thread.”

But many business groups warn that the compromise plan does not include enough money, potentially leaving some companies without aid, in a repeat of the government’s initial round of Paycheck Protection Program loans in the spring. Lawmakers could again find themselves almost immediately facing pressure to allocate more money to the program.

The structure of the aid is unlikely to provide a long-term bridge for certain types of businesses, including many in the hospitality industry, that might not return to pre-pandemic levels of activity for months or years.

The deal would provide money to state and local governments, though the $160 billion being discussed is a small fraction of the $1 trillion that Democrats initially proposed last spring.

State and local aid has been a major sticking point in negotiations, with Mr. McConnell dismissing it as a “blue-state bailout.” But Republican-led states face some of the biggest revenue gaps.

States and local governments, which have been battered by pandemic-related costs and collapsing tax revenues, have already cut more than 1.3 million jobs, and much deeper cuts loom. Those cuts could have both short- and long-term consequences. A new round of public-sector layoffs and furloughs, combined with slowing private-sector hiring, could derail the precarious recovery. And cuts to schools, public transportation and other services could make it harder for the economy to regain momentum once the pandemic has passed.

Even if Congress does reach a deal before the end of the year, Mr. Biden warned Friday that lawmakers would need to spend more once he took office. “The country’s going to be in dire, dire, dire straits if they don’t,” he said.





No.30 article:
Three Steps for Safe Living

And what else you need to know today.

The most effective public health messages don’t merely tell people what not to do. They also tell people what they can do with only a small amount of risk.

This sometimes feels counterintuitive, because it gives people permission to take some risks, rather than urging maximum safety all the time. In the long run, though, a more realistic approach is actually the safer one, many experts say.

Human beings are social creatures. Most aren’t going to sit inside their houses for months on end. And pretending otherwise tends to backfire. It leads people to ignore public health advice and take needlessly big risks. “We need different, more nuanced, and more practical messaging about coronavirus safety,” Sarit Golub, a psychology professor at Hunter College, has written.

(Federal officials took a step in this direction this week by shortening the recommended quarantine period after virus exposure.)

Today, I want to give you a three-step guide to risk minimization. It’s based on a Times survey of 700 epidemiologists as well as my conversations with experts and colleagues, like Donald G. McNeil Jr.

1. There is one behavior you should try to eliminate, without exception: Spending time in a confined space (outside your household) where anyone is unmasked.

Don’t eat indoors at a restaurant or friend’s house. Don’t have close, unmasked conversations anywhere, even outdoors. If you must fly, try to not to eat or drink on the plane. If you’re going to work, don’t have lunch in the same room as colleagues. Group lunches have led to outbreaks at hospitals and elsewhere.

2. This next set of behaviors is best to minimize if you can’t avoid it: Spending extended time in indoor spaces, even with universal masking.

Masks aren’t perfect. If you can work out at home rather than at a gym — or do your job or attend religious services remotely — you’re reducing your risk.

3. Now the better news: Several activities are less risky than some people fear.

You don’t need to wear a mask when you go for a walk or a jog. Donald, who’s famously careful, bikes without a mask. “I consider keeping six feet distant outdoors more important than wearing a mask,” he told me. “If I had a birthday candle in my hand and you’re too far away to blow it out, I can’t inhale whatever you exhale.”

You can also feel OK about doing many errands. About 90 percent of the epidemiologists in our survey have recently visited a grocery store, a pharmacy or another store. Just wear a mask, stay distant from others and wash your hands afterward.

The big picture: I find it helpful to think about the notion of a personal risk budget. I don’t spend any of my risk budget on supermarket shopping, because grocery delivery works well for my family. But I do take occasional unmasked, distant walks with one or two friends. They help keep me sane as we head into a long, very hard winter.

For more: The survey of epidemiologists — done by Margot Sanger-Katz, Claire Cain Miller and Quoctrung Bui of The Times — has much more, including how they’re thinking about a vaccine.

Modern Love: Tough times may not bring love, but for a young woman, they bring clarity.

From Opinion: David Brooks, Michelle Goldberg and Nicholas Kristof have columns.

Lives Lived: When Betsy Wade started at The Times in 1956, she broke a century-old tradition of men copy editing in the news department. She also fought a sex discrimination case against the paper and became the first woman to lead the Newspaper Guild of New York. She died at 91.

Subscriber support helps make Times journalism possible. If you’re not already a subscriber, please consider becoming one today.

Even when the pandemic ends, the movie business won’t quickly — or maybe ever — return to the old normal.

Warner Bros., one of the top movie studios, acknowledged as much yesterday by announcing that it will debut its entire slate of 2021 movies on its streaming service, HBO Max, the same day that they enter U.S. theaters. The list of 17 movies includes blockbusters like “Dune,” “The Matrix 4” and a “Suicide Squad” sequel.

“WarnerMedia is calling this a ‘unique one-year plan,’” Brooks Barnes, a media reporter for The Times, tweeted. “But there will be no going back. HBO Max needs the content and consumers will not just say ‘oh, okay’ when they can’t have instant access anymore.”

WarnerMedia has its own reasons for emphasizing streaming. It wants to expand HBO Max — which has struggled to attract subscribers since its introduction in May — into a streaming service that can compete with Netflix and Disney Plus. Warner Bros. is also a powerful enough studio that the change “has the ability to upend the theatrical model that so many have relied on for so long,” Nicole Sperling, a Times media reporter, told us.

Outside the U.S., where HBO Max is not yet available, Warner’s 2021 movies will receive traditional theatrical releases. For a sense of how theaters are faring in some countries where the virus is under better control: In October, more than 3.4 million people in Japan turned out to see an animated movie, “Demon Slayer: Mugen Train,” in its opening weekend.

Charred scallions, green beans and chile oil transform a pack of ramen noodles into a satisfying (and quick) meal.

Take a look at how Prince — who was private about his creative process — made “Sign o’ the Times” in a new Diary of a Song.

“Mank,” the director David Fincher’s first film in six years, tells the story of the creation of “Citizen Kane.” The Times movie critic A.O. Scott calls it “a worthy, eminently watchable entry in the annals of Hollywood self-obsession.” (The Magazine profiled the director last month.)

Here are the year’s best performances and the most important moments in art.

The late-night hosts joked about vaccinating ex-presidents on live television.

The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was heavily. Today’s puzzle is above — or you can play online if you have a Games subscription.

Here’s today’s Mini Crossword, and a clue: Low humming noise (five letters).

And you can take our news quiz.

Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you Monday. — David

P.S. Join NYT Cooking’s Melissa Clark as she demonstrates cookie recipes for the holidays and answers your questions, tomorrow at 11 a.m. Eastern.

You can see today’s print front page here. 

Today’s episode of “The Daily” is about pre-emptive pardons. On “The Argument,” the two crises Biden will inherit from Trump.

Claire Moses, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Sanam Yar contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at themorning@nytimes.com.

Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox.





No.31 article:
Jessi Klein Didn’t Get Her ‘Big Mouth’ Role by Keeping Quiet

In March 2019, the actor, comedian and writer Jessi Klein wrote an email to her old friend Nick Kroll, a creator and star of Netflix’s intensely bawdy and explicit animated series about puberty, “Big Mouth.” The writers were hard at work on an episode of the fourth season, debuting Friday, called “The Hugest Period Ever.”

In the episode, one of the show’s main characters, Jessi Glaser, who is voiced by Klein, suffers an inconveniently heavy period while away at summer camp. The email’s subject line read: “Random tampon thoughts.”

“It feels like there’s a joke about her looking at the diagram that comes with the tampon box,” Klein wrote. “It’s so useless. Maybe Jessi’s like: ‘So I put it between my leg line up to my … light bulb space?’”

Klein’s name might not strike a chord for casual TV consumers, but she has been a fixture in the industry for more than two decades, lending her sharply observational humor and perspective to programs like “Chappelle’s Show,” “Saturday Night Live” and “Transparent.” Longtime fans might remember her sardonic recaps on VH1’s now-defunct pop-culture commentary series “Best Week Ever” in the 2000s, which also saw appearances from Kroll and John Mulaney, who voices Andrew on “Big Mouth.”

In 2015, Klein won an Emmy for her work as an executive producer and the head writer on “Inside Amy Schumer.” The next year, she published a best-selling book of essays, “You’ll Grow Out of It,” in which she describes winning the Emmy and then immediately retreating to an empty dressing room in the basement of the Nokia Theater: She was three months postpartum and needed to pump.

“My friends have gone on to the post-ceremony dinner and I’ve told them I’ll join them there,” she writes. “My Emmy is on the floor. I am not the loneliest I’ve ever felt, but I am not the happiest, either.”

That willingness to poke and prod at her own most vulnerable moments has made Klein a natural fit as a consulting producer for “Big Mouth,” a show that excels at distilling moments of mortification and anxiety into punchy, impish and often deeply vulgar comedic moments. It also informs her character on the show: an intelligent, acerbic teen who has just begun to hack her way through the jungle of her changing hormones. In Season 1, Jessi fumbles through her first kiss, learns to masturbate and suffers through her first period while on a class trip to the Statue of Liberty. (She uses a 9/11 souvenir towel to stanch the flow.) By Season 4, she is sneaking around with her first boyfriend, a self-involved, flaky artist voiced by Sterling K. Brown.

“Jessi has instinctively, throughout her career, scrutinized her horniness and her awkwardness,” Kroll said in a video call last month. “Now that might feel a little commonplace — a comic nostalgically looking back at their own awkward youthfulness or horniness — but Jessi was an early adopter.”

Big Mouth’s humor and levity offer an easy entry point to complex topics. Preteen shame, though nearly universal, is rarely discussed so deeply or probed with such enthusiasm in popular culture, particularly with such careful attention to the small, physical moments that typically go unspoken among girls, like worrying about the outline of your pad against your shorts, or trying and failing to insert a tampon. By putting these moments onscreen, the show validates and demystifies those experiences for its younger viewers — and suggests that girls’ stories are just as worthy of attention as the boys’.

Klein, 45, was barely five minutes into her interview when she launched into the story of her first period — “It’s the original ‘where were you on 9/11?’” she joked. She also talked about period belts (an actual thing), what it means to be “dirty nerdy” and what it’s been like to work on a show she wishes had existed when she was an adolescent. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Do you have a sense of why the show’s creators cast you as Jessi back in 2017?

Jessi is based on someone that Nick and Andrew [Goldberg, another of the show’s creators] grew up with, and I think I embody some qualities that remind them of this young woman: a girl who is just as funny and smart as the boys around her, if not smarter. I’ve known Nick for a long time — almost 20 years. And we’ve always riffed off each other well.

Early on in our friendship, Nick gave me the nickname “dirty nerdy,” and I thought, “Yeah, that sounds right.”

How so?

I was a very late bloomer and very awkward, but I was always interested in sex. It was an uncomfortable stew of feelings to have as a young woman who wore glasses and looked the way I looked. I didn’t feel like the object of someone’s horny desire. I felt like a participant.

I love that plotline in Big Mouth. There’s an entire episode called “Girls Are Horny Too.”

I definitely didn’t see any TV shows addressing female desire when I was growing up. The majority of what we were taking in was a mainstream version of female teenagehood. Even seeing “The Facts of Life” was a big, big deal, because it showed girls with friendships and talking to each other and opening up. I remember thinking that was as close as it got to something that represented my inner life.

Did you have a hand in shaping Jessi’s character?

Oh, yeah. I would drop by occasionally and sit with the writers, sometimes working on specific episodes, especially early on. The show’s creators gave me the opportunity to bring stories to the table and talk about personal experiences of my own that could help fuel stories for Jessi. I also remember talking to a few writers about my first period, which I got on Yom Kippur at my grandmother’s house.

That sounds like a scene that could’ve made it into the show.

When I got my period, my mother literally handed me the period belt. No one reading your article will even know what that is. But it’s a thing where the pads clip into an actual belt. Like, how did that happen? She was not keeping up with menstrual technology.

What would my life have been like if there was a very funny, popular show telling me that figuring out how to deal with pads was a normal thing other girls were struggling with? You’re just a human being trying not to bleed out.

There’s a period scene in Michaela Coel’s “I May Destroy You” that shows a blood clot. That was a stunning moment.

I agree. All I feel when I see these scenes — like that one in “I May Destroy You” or the moment in “PEN15” when one of the female main characters masturbates — is just a tidal wave of relief. Like, Oh God, we can show something that’s just a basic fact of our lives? Someone else had the courage to put it on TV, and now we’re allowed to do that?

With “Big Mouth,” I felt the opportunity to get into how teenage girls deal with their burgeoning sexuality and the intense shame you feel as a girl. That topic is on TV more than it used to be, but it is still one of the most taboo topics out there.

I was also really happy with the Missy story line for season 4, where Missy spends time with her cousins and explores her racial identity. I think it’s so important and underexplored on TV in general. It’s great to have Ayo acting on the show. [Ayo Edebiri replaces Jenny Slate late in Season 4 as the voice of Missy, who is biracial.] She was a writer before she started voicing Missy, and she’s amazing.

One thing I love about “Big Mouth” is how it validates the girls’ experiences, from Missy’s frustration with her parents to Jessi’s shame and embarrassment when the boys notice her wearing a bra.

There’s a scene in the new season when Jessi bunks with more “advanced” girls at camp, and at one point they’re like, here’s what we should do to you to “fix” you. Here’s your makeover.

My one experience of camp was in junior high. There were these girls there who brought matching striped shirts, and I really wanted one. But when I tried one on, one of the girls was like: “Oh, that looks weird on you. I guess you can’t wear the shirt.” To this day, I remember that. It just destroyed me.

I’m at a place in my life right now where I’m dealing with more hormones again. And in some ways, it’s like a second adolescence. It’s like that girl telling me that I didn’t look good in her striped shirt. We’re laughing now, but it was truly decimating to me at the time.

Having the opportunity to get into the booth and scream like my 12-year-old self is an appropriate outlet for how my 45-year-old self is also feeling. So, yeah, reliving those moments is pretty cathartic.





No.32 article:
Rights Group Demands End to Sex Testing of Female Track Athletes

A Human Rights Watch report said that regulations governing athletes with differences of sexual development are harmful and disproportionately affect women of color from developing nations.

With the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics approaching in July, Human Rights Watch on Friday demanded that track and field officials halt sex testing of female athletes, describing the practice of measuring and restricting their natural testosterone levels as abusive and harmful.

Sex testing has been a deeply contentious issue in sports for decades, but the dispute has been heightened since 2018, when track and field’s world governing body instituted its latest rules regarding intersex athletes like Caster Semenya of South Africa, a two-time Olympic champion runner at 800 meters. The sport’s regulations have inflamed debates about biological sex, gender identity and fair play.

Semenya and others who have what are called differences of sexual development, or D.S.D.s, are required to suppress naturally elevated testosterone levels — through hormonal therapy or surgery — before competing internationally in women’s running races at distances from the quarter mile to the mile.

World Athletics, track and field’s governing body, acknowledges that the restrictions are discriminatory, but says they are necessary to ensure a level playing field.

Semenya, who identifies as a woman and has declined to undergo testosterone suppression, has lost appeals before the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which is based in Switzerland, and the Swiss Supreme Court. Last month, her lawyers said she would take her case to the European Court of Human Rights, though it is unclear if any decision can be reached before the Tokyo Games, scheduled to start on July 23. Otherwise, Semenya, 29, has suggested she will try to run the 200, an event free of the recently introduced testosterone restrictions, at the Olympics.

In a 120-page report, the New York-based Human Rights Watch amplified with athletes’ voices what critics of the current testosterone regulations have long argued: that they are medically unnecessary and humiliating; encourage coerced medical intervention; can result in physical and psychological injury and the loss of careers; violate fundamental rights to privacy, dignity, health, nondiscrimination and employment; and adhere to standards of femininity that are racially biased, disproportionately affecting women of color from Africa, Asia, Latin America and Oceania.

“Whether it is hormone therapy or surgery, why should a perfectly healthy woman agree to do so to compete in sports?” Francine Niyonsaba of Burundi in East Africa said in an email to The New York Times. She finished second to Semenya in the 800 at the 2016 Olympics and is also affected by the testosterone regulations.

Like Semenya, Niyonsaba has refused to undergo hormone suppression and is now training to run the 5,000 meters, a distance at which the biological restrictions do not apply.

“They treat us as if we are cheats,” Niyonsaba said. “We deserve to be respected as athletes, as champions.”

The report was based on interviews last year with 13 female athletes from African and Asian countries, as well as input from lawyers, doctors, academics and medical ethicists. Annet Negesa, an intersex middle-distance runner from Uganda, told researchers that an operation to remove her internal testes was performed in 2012 without her consent. The operation, she said, left her battling headaches and achy joints and ruined her career.

Another athlete, identified by her initials as J.G., said in the report that once she was declared ineligible because of testosterone regulations, she lost her career, could not get a job and struggled to eat. “My life is over,” she said.

Payoshni Mitra, an Indian scholar and athletes’ rights advocate who was a co-author of the report, said in a telephone interview from London that “regulating fair play is understandable. Committing human rights violations in the process is not acceptable. And that is what World Athletics is doing.”

Human Rights Watch called on World Athletics to immediately rescind its testosterone regulations. And it implored the International Olympic Committee to uphold the Olympic Charter, which prohibits discrimination of any kind, and to develop guidelines that meet the standards of international human rights and medical ethics.

In a statement, World Athletics rejected the accusation that biological limits set on athletes competing in certain women’s events were based on race or gender stereotypes. Rather, the governing body said, the testosterone regulations provide “an objective and scientific measure” to preserve equitable competition.

The International Olympic Committee said it was working on inclusivity guidelines to “ensure fairness, safety and non-discrimination of athletes on the basis of gender identity and sex characteristics.”

A 2017 study, commissioned by World Athletics and later challenged by independent researchers, said that women with D.S.D.s tended to have distinct advantages in races from a quarter mile to a mile, distances that require a combination of speed and endurance.

In 2018, track’s governing body instituted regulations governing female athletes who have a disorder of sexual development and both X and Y chromosomes, the standard male pattern. Intersex athletes with testosterone in the male range, the governing body argued, possess an unfair advantage in lean muscle mass, strength and oxygen-carrying capacity in certain events. The lowest level of testosterone in the typical male range is four times the highest level in the typical female range, according to World Athletics.

But critics of the regulations have contested the science underpinning the World Athletics rules and noted that there was no scientific consensus on the precise impact of testosterone on athletic performance.

In June, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights said that sports officials should revoke regulations regarding intersex athletes. And the World Medical Association last year urged doctors not to implement the regulations, saying they were based “on weak evidence.”

It is a mistake to view this issue in scientific terms alone, said Katrina Karkazis, a co-author of the Human Rights Watch report and a visiting professor of women’s, gender and sexuality studies at Emory University.

“In doing that, you obfuscate or ignore the very real harms done to women,” Karkazis said. “That is the importance of the report.”





No.33 article:
As Virus Spreads, C.D.C. Draws Up an Urgent Battle Plan

The multipronged advice, for individuals and state and local officials, may augur a national strategy in the months to come, experts said.

With coronavirus infections soaring across the nation, federal health officials on Friday urged Americans in the most forceful language yet to take steps to protect themselves — starting with consistent, proper use of masks — and pressed local governments to adopt 10 public health measures deemed necessary to contain the pandemic.

The guidance reflected deep concern at the agency that the pandemic is spiraling further out of control and that many hospitals are reaching a breaking point, potentially disrupting health care across the country.

Agency officials have issued increasingly stark warnings in the waning weeks of the Trump administration, and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has promised a new national strategy to turn back the virus. On Thursday, Mr. Biden said he would call on Americans to wear facial coverings for 100 days.

To some experts, the C.D.C.’s appeal appeared to augur a more comprehensive and coordinated national approach to controlling the pandemic — one consistent with messages from Mr. Biden and his advisers.

“We’re seeing C.D.C. and other public health institutions awaken from their politics-induced coma,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, who served as the agency&#x27;s director under President Barack Obama.

“This is them aligning themselves more with science, which also aligns them more with the Biden administration,” he added.

While none of the directives are new, experts said the rising case numbers demonstrated a need for a more uniform approach, rather than the patchwork of restrictions adopted by states.

“The role of the C.D.C. is to lead with the science,” said Dr. Celine Gounder, an infectious-disease physician and member of Mr. Biden’s Covid advisory group. “In the absence of strong national guidance from the C.D.C., we’ve had a variety of responses across the country, some more scientifically grounded than others.”

The scientific evidence supporting the effectiveness of certain health measures, such as wearing masks, has been accumulating, and those measures are urgently needed now to stop the spread, C.D.C. officials said.

Though the agency has issued all of the recommendations in earlier guidance, the new summary represented the first time the C.D.C. had published a multipronged list of strategies for states, a sort of battle plan.

“This idea of a 50-state solution is completely impractical when we live in one nation,” said Jennifer Nuzzo, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University’s Bloomberg School of Public Health. “We are not going to get past this pandemic unless we have a concerted national approach.”

The new recommendations place high priority on keeping schools open, from kindergarten through 12th grade, saying schools should be both “the last settings to close” and “the first to reopen” because of the critical role they play in providing meals and support services to children. Closures take a disproportionate toll on low-income families, the agency noted.

Officials warned that eating at indoor restaurants was one of the “particularly high-risk scenarios” because diners had to remove their masks. The C.D.C. urged communities to require face coverings on mass transit, something Mr. Biden also has endorsed, and to expand routine screening to identify asymptomatic individuals, who are responsible for about 50 percent of transmissions.

Failure to implement the preventive measures will lead to continued spread of the virus and more unnecessary deaths, said Margaret A. Honein, the first author of the C.D.C. report.

She emphasized that Americans could take many important steps on their own: wearing masks, physically distancing from others, limiting their contacts and avoiding nonessential visits to indoor spaces.

“We want to make sure every person is aware that it’s within their power to take this critical step: Wear a face mask and prevent transmission, and maintain physical distance from others,” said Dr. Honein, a member of the agency’s Covid-19 emergency response team.

Scientific evidence that masks can both prevent an infected individual from spreading the disease and protect the user from infection is “compelling,” she added. “Clearly, not everyone is hearing how important that is,” she said. “It’s an action everyone can take to protect each other.”

Americans also should avoid indoor spaces outside the home, as well as crowded outdoor spaces, the C.D.C. said. That includes restaurants and could also apply to some with outdoor dining: The report suggests switching to takeout food service instead.

Americans should be tested if exposed to the virus and should cooperate with contact tracers if infected, the agency said. They should stay home and postpone travel, air out and ventilate rooms, wash hands frequently and get vaccines as they become available.

Exercise should be done outdoors, with a mask and social distancing, the agency said. Working remotely should be encouraged, and social gatherings should be limited.

In a shift, the C.D.C. also urged states and local jurisdictions to encourage and enforce these behaviors, including mandating the wearing of masks in public spaces and on public transportation.

The Trump administration in September blocked a C.D.C. order that would have required passengers to wear masks on planes, buses and subway trains and in transit hubs. Officials in some states continue to resist mask mandates in public spaces. In Florida, which has reported over a million coronavirus cases, Gov. Ron DeSantis reiterated his opposition to mask mandates earlier this week.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]

The C.D.C. urged officials to limit the use of high-risk nonessential indoor spaces, to erect physical barriers and visual reminders underscoring the need for social distancing, and to begin planning now for the distribution and administration of vaccines.

The agency is also pushing for increased testing of essential workers who come into contact with the public and people who are otherwise at high risk.

Even with mass vaccinations apparently imminent, Dr. Honein emphasized the need to implement such measures. “We are seeing that light at the end of the tunnel, but need time to get to that,” she said.

Dr. Nuzzo, of Johns Hopkins, and other experts praised the agency’s new emphasis on prioritizing schools over venues like restaurants and bars, a recommendation echoed by Mr. Biden and his advisers.

The C.D.C.’s previous guidance, issued over the summer and doctored by the White House, also pushed for schools to reopen but was not balanced by a scientific assessment of the accompanying risks, Dr. Nuzzo said, adding, “It felt more like a treatise rather than an analysis.”

Having all 10 measures in one document is helpful and underscores the message that no one strategy can hinder the spread of the virus, experts said. But the document was thin on some details, said Dr. Nahid Bhadelia, medical director of the special pathogens unit at Boston Medical Center.

Dr. Bhadelia was struck by the suggestion that there might be a coordinated program to hand out masks to people. “I haven’t seen that before, particularly for those who are at high risk,” she said. But the C.D.C. did not specify whether states or employers should provide the masks, she noted.

The new guidance also emphasized the importance of improving ventilation in indoor spaces, where airborne virus is a threat. But the agency could have detailed best practices to minimize confusion, Dr. Bhadelia said.

She cited fully enclosed outdoor dining “cabins” as an example of the misguided solutions that can result from unclear guidance.

The agency also did not clarify what the triggers should be for restaurants or schools to shut down or which groups were recommended for increased testing because of their greater interactions with other people. “I would have loved to see a little bit more detail,” Dr. Bhadelia said.





No.34 article:
How 700 Epidemiologists Are Living Now, and What They Think Is Next

They are going to the grocery store again, but don’t see vaccines making life normal right away.

Even with coronavirus vaccines on the way, many epidemiologists do not expect their lives to return to pre-pandemic normal until most Americans are vaccinated. In the meantime, most have eased up on some precautions — now going to the grocery store or seeing friends outdoors, for example — but are as cautious as ever about many activities of daily life.

In a new informal survey of 700 epidemiologists by The New York Times, half said they would not change their personal behavior until at least 70 percent of the population was vaccinated. Thirty percent said they would make some changes once they were vaccinated themselves.

A minority of the epidemiologists said that if highly effective vaccines were widely distributed, it would be safe for Americans to begin living more freely this summer: “I am optimistic that the encouraging vaccine results mean we’ll be back on track by or during summer 2021,” said Kelly Strutz, an assistant professor at Michigan State University.

But epidemiologists are a very cautious group. Most said that even with vaccines, it would probably take a year or more for many activities to safely restart, and that some parts of their lives may never return to the way they were.

Karin Michels, professor of epidemiology at U.C.L.A., said it would probably be many years until it was safe enough to “return to approximately the lifestyle we had.” She said, “We have to settle to live with the virus.”

Epidemiologists worry about many unknowns, including how long immunity lasts; how the virus may mutate; the challenges of vaccine distribution; and the possible reluctance to accept the vaccine among some groups.

On the eve of the Covid winter, the epidemiologists are living with stringent precautions and new workarounds in place, far stricter than those of many ordinary Americans. Yet those precautions have evolved since last spring, as scientists have learned more about how the coronavirus spreads and what prevents it.

Of 23 activities of daily life that the survey asked about, there were only three that the majority of respondents had done in the last month: gathering outdoors with friends; bringing in mail without precautions; and running errands, like going to the grocery store or pharmacy.

The epidemiologists have almost entirely avoided other parts of pre-pandemic life — including activities that many Americans are doing now. Almost none said they had attended a sporting event, play or concert; met up with someone they didn’t know well; or attended a wedding or funeral. 

“Being in close proximity to people I don’t know will always feel less safe than it used to,” said Ellicott Matthay, a postdoctoral scholar at the University of California, San Francisco.

Three-quarters of respondents said they planned to spend Christmas, Hanukkah or other winter holidays only with members of their household, or not celebrate at all, similar to how they spent Thanksgiving.

When asked about the safest and riskiest activities on the list, most epidemiologists agreed on these general principles: They are less worried about outdoor activities and about touching surfaces, and more worried about indoor activities and those with large groups. But even the epidemiologists didn’t all agree on their assessment of risk.

“Indoor venues with lots of people is the riskiest situation,” said Leland Ackerson of the University of Massachusetts. “Outdoors with few people, social distancing and precautions is the least risky.” He said that during the last month, he had hiked with friends, opened mail without precautions and run errands.

Six months ago, we asked a similar group of epidemiologists about when life might go back to normal. Most then guessed that people would need to wait a year or more for many aspects of daily life to normalize. This time, as the spread of the virus has worsened but the treatments have improved, we focused our questions on how they have been living in the thick of the pandemic.

“It’s funny: When you asked this before, I was so optimistic about the U.S. being able to lead and address this in a timely fashion,” said Rachel Widome, associate professor at the University of Minnesota. “I told you I thought things would be better by now. I was very wrong. They are dramatically worse.”

Most scientists say around 70 percent of the population will need to be immune for the United States to reach herd immunity, when the virus slows down significantly or stops. Herd immunity is crucial, they say, for people to safely resume many parts of life, and the fastest and safest way to achieve it is through vaccination. Moncef Slaoui, who is leading the government’s Operation Warp Speed vaccine development program, said this week that vaccines may roll out quickly enough for the United States to reach herd immunity by early summer. But scientists do not yet know if vaccinated people could still spread the virus.

Nearly a third of respondents said they would be comfortable returning to more activities of daily life once they were vaccinated. Some said they would feel comfortable doing only certain things, like socializing with people who had also been vaccinated. A few said they would wait until the country had reached the herd immunity threshold and they had received a vaccine themselves.

“I would change some behaviors but not others,” said Gabriela Vazquez Benitez, a senior research investigator at HealthPartners Institute, a nonprofit group. “I would do some minimal travel, small indoor gatherings with other close relatives when I am vaccinated, but maintain safety precautions such as wearing a mask and social distance.”

Since the spring, 79 percent of the epidemiologists said their assessment of various risks had changed, and that they had adjusted their behaviors accordingly. Science is a process, they said, and the virus is new, so even those studying it most closely have learned things along the way.

Some said they were less worried than last spring about socializing outdoors, touching surfaces or sending young children to school. They were more worried about indoor air transmission and the dangers of not wearing masks.

About 8,000 epidemiologists were invited to participate in our survey, which was circulated by email to the membership of the Society for Epidemiologic Research and to individual scientists, and which was conducted from Nov. 18 to Dec. 2. Of the 700 who participated, around three-quarters work in academia; a similar share is doing work that is at least partly related to the coronavirus.

In keeping with their informal professional motto, many of them emphasized that their answers could change depending on circumstances. The phrase “it depends” appeared 45 times in their responses.

“It entirely depends upon what we do as a nation to address the pandemic,” said Emeli Anderson, a doctoral student of epidemiology at Emory. “Right now, we are not nearly doing enough.”

Many epidemiologists expressed disappointment and frustration that public health messaging had not been more effective, and that a growing share of Americans seemed to distrust science. They feared that the politicization of measures like wearing masks and staying home would have long-term consequences.

“This virus has humbled me as a professional and a person,” said Michelle Odden, associate professor of epidemiology at Stanford. “I did not think this level of failure in a federal response was possible in the United States. We have a lot of work to do.”

As for the future, some said that parts of life could begin to return to normal sometime in the summer, thanks to vaccines. Others said some things would stay different, assuming a highly effective therapeutic drug isn’t developed. The most mentioned change: the persistence of mask-wearing, particularly in crowded places or when they felt sick.

“I expect that wearing a mask will become part of my daily life, moving forward, even after a vaccine is deployed,” said Amy Hobbs, a research associate at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.

Many said they planned to keep working from home at least part of the time. Some said they would always be more hesitant about greeting people with a handshake or a hug, being in crowded places or traveling internationally.

“I think it will be a few years before gathering with large groups of people in crowded public places and being on airplanes and other public transportation will feel safe to me,” said Beth Molnar, an associate professor at Northeastern University.

Others cautioned that even when the physical dangers of the pandemic recede, other consequences are likely to be long-lasting. They mentioned the effects of isolation on children’s developing brains; the exposure of deep inequities in health care and in safety nets; and the fear and sadness of so much illness and death.

“Mental health care will continue to be essential,” said Daniel Vader, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Pennsylvania. “This is a traumatic time, and many of us will be affected by the worry and grief it has induced for the rest of our lives.”

“If more than half the population is vaccinated, I would feel a little less stressed and anxious when heading out to do errands I normally do. I might actually feel comfortable to eat in a restaurant or see friends again one day if this is possible.”

“Vaccinations have become a political issue in this country. I can only control my own actions. So once I was vaccinated, I would feel more comfortable changing my risk profile in small ways.”

“Once I and my family are vaccinated, I would change behaviors, except I can’t imagine being in a crowd or attending any crowded events until 80 percent or more are vaccinated.”

“For some, it has gone back to normal, and because of this, it will be two to three years before things are back to normal for the cautious, at least in the U.S.”

“The new normal will be continued masking for the next 12 to 18 months and possibly the next few years. This is a paradigm shift.”

“I think widespread availability of vaccines will result in the further relaxation of most precautions by mid-to-late summer 2021.”

“It’s hard for me to imagine that it will ever go back to our previous ‘normal,’ but I do think that new preventive measures that we’ve had to adopt, like masks, will feel normal in time. In that sense, I’m optimistic that life will settle into a new kind of normal.”

“It is normal now; similar to 2019, never again.”

“My relationships with people who have taken this pandemic lightly and ignored public health messages and recommendations.”

“Every part of my daily life that involves interaction with anyone other than my spouse.”

“Staying home with my children has taught me that life with fewer errands to run and activities to partake in is kind of nice. I think in the future we will cut down on our family obligations.”

“I won’t take traveling to my extended family for granted.”

“I will never again have to explain what an epidemiologist is.”





No.35 article:
Quotation of the Day: The Outcry Over Sex Testing Grows Louder

“They treat us as if we are cheats. We deserve to be respected as athletes, as champions.”

FRANCINE NIYONSABA, a runner from Burundi in East Africa, who has refused to undergo hormone suppression required by track and field’s governing body because of naturally elevated testosterone levels.





No.36 article:
Doctors Are Skeptical of Pricey Drug Given Emergency Approval for Covid

Baricitinib, an arthritis drug made by Eli Lilly, may reduce recovery time by a day, but costs about $1,500 and comes with side effects.

In mid-November, an arthritis drug with a tricky name hit a pandemic milestone — then slipped back into relative obscurity.

The drug, baricitinib, was granted an emergency authorization by the Food and Drug Administration to treat a subset of hospitalized Covid-19 patients in combination with another medication, the antiviral remdesivir. It is one of only a handful of treatments to have earned the agency’s green light.

But baricitinib’s reception by the medical community has been lukewarm. It doesn’t work all that well, for one thing, and comes with side effects, such as blood clots. And at a cost of roughly $1,500 per patient, many doctors don’t know when it would make sense to use the drug, which might have overlapping roles with cheap and widely available steroids like dexamethasone.

In a clinical trial sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, hospitalized Covid-19 patients treated with baricitinib and remdesivir recovered one day faster than patients who had received remdesivir alone.

“I think it’s really a nothing burger,” said Dr. Ilan Schwartz, an infectious disease physician at the University of Alberta. “We’re talking about adding a drug that reduces the time to clinical improvement by one day, in a disease that takes weeks to recover.”

These results, which were announced through a series of news releases by drugmaker Eli Lilly, have yet to be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. Kristen Porter Basu, a spokeswoman for the company, wrote in an email that a “more detailed analysis” would be published “very soon.”

When an emergency authorization has been released but the data have not, doctors are caught “in a difficult place,” said Dr. Manuela Cernadas, a critical care physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. “It’s not entirely clear where this drug fits in our armamentarium of drugs we’re comfortable using.”

Baricitinib is a repurposed arthritis treatment that, like a steroid, dampens inflammation, which, in severe cases of Covid-19, can spiral out of control and destroy healthy tissues. The drug acts like a molecular muffler, preventing the cells from responding to alarm signals that could make the body’s immune response spiral out of control.

The N.I.H. trial was designed to test whether baricitinib could boost the benefits of remdesivir, now the standard of care for Covid-19 patients. Remdesivir by itself speeds recovery by several days. The researchers found that the addition of baricitinib clipped an additional day off a patient’s recovery time and kept a few extra people off ventilators. But these and other results largely failed to impress experts, many of whom said the drug would need to have far bigger benefits to outweigh its price tag and potential harms.

“It seems more incremental than blockbuster,” said Dr. Taison Bell, a critical care physician at the University of Virginia, who was involved in the clinical trial. Although Dr. Bell described baricitinib as a reasonable addition to the Covid treatment toolbox, and even deserving of an emergency approval, “I don’t think it’s a game changer,” he said.

Still, the findings were enough to convince the F.D.A., which issued an emergency authorization on Nov. 19. The drug is now allowed to be paired with remdesivir, but only to hospitalized patients who need supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation or other breathing support.

The agency’s limited clearance aligns with the subset of patients in the N.I.H. trial who benefited the most from the dual drug combo, said Dr. Andre Kalil, an infectious disease physician at the University of Nebraska Medical Center and one of the lead researchers on the trial. 

But this same population of patients — people sick enough to need some form of breathing support — would also be great candidates for steroids like dexamethasone, said Dr. Phyllis Tien, an infectious disease physician at the University of California, San Francisco.

Dexamethasone, unlike baricitinib, has been shown in studies to curb mortality in severely sick Covid-19 patients. A generic drug, it’s also cheap, costing cents or dollars per day of treatment, and has for months been a part of the coronavirus treatment playbook.

“I’m asking myself, ‘Who would I think about using baricitinib in, over dexamethasone?’” Dr. Tien said.

But Dr. Boghuma Kabisen Titanji, an infectious disease physician at Emory University who pioneered early studies of baricitinib against the coronavirus, offered a more sobering perspective on dexamethasone. Steroids are “blunt knives,” she said, quashing inflammation on a broader scale than drugs like baricitinib do. That’s why steroids come with a host of unwanted side effects, including exacerbating conditions like diabetes or osteoporosis, she said.

The family of drugs that includes baricitinib, on the other hand, may offer more therapeutic precision, Dr. Titanji said. There’s also been some evidence that baricitinib might be able to block the coronavirus from entering cells.

Still, baricitinib comes with its own problems, such as raising the risk of blood clots — already an issue in many cases of Covid-19. “That does give you pause,” Dr. Cernadas said.

Both baricitinib and dexamethasone also blunt immune function, increasing the likelihood that other viruses or bacteria might infiltrate the bodies of the people they’re used in. But of the two, dexamethasone is “the devil you know,” said Dr. Lauren Henderson, a pediatric rheumatologist at Boston Children’s Hospital. “I would probably not turn to baricitinib as a first line.”

Dr. Tien and other experts echoed this sentiment, saying they would be likely to choose dexamethasone over baricitinib when treating someone with a serious case of Covid-19, unless there was an obvious reason their patient might respond poorly to steroids.

A head-to-head comparison between baricitinib and dexamethasone might clarify which patients would be better off taking one drug over another. At the end of November, the N.I.H. announced a trial that will compare outcomes between hospitalized Covid-19 patients who receive either a combination of remdesivir and dexamethasone, or a combination of remdesivir and baricitinib. But Dr. Schwartz and others raised ethical concerns about this trial, which he said would by definition deprive some patients of a lifesaving steroid therapy.

Eli Lilly is also running a trial to study the effects of baricitinib on its own in hospitalized patients. In this study, which isn’t likely to finish until next summer, all participants will receive dexamethasone.





