No.1 article:
Biden Picks Xavier Becerra to Lead Health and Human Services

The selection of Mr. Becerra, the California attorney general, is a surprise. If confirmed, he will face a daunting challenge in leading the department at a critical moment in the pandemic.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has selected Xavier Becerra, the Democratic attorney general of California, as his nominee for secretary of health and human services, tapping a former congressman who would be the first Latino to run the department as it battles the surging coronavirus pandemic.

Mr. Becerra became Mr. Biden’s clear choice only over the past few days, according to people familiar with the transition’s deliberations, and was a surprise. Mr. Becerra has carved out a profile on the issues of criminal justice and immigration, and he was long thought to be a candidate for attorney general.

But as attorney general in California, he has been at the forefront of legal efforts on health care, leading 20 states and the District of Columbia in a campaign to protect the Affordable Care Act from being dismantled by his Republican counterparts. He has also been vocal in the Democratic Party about fighting for women’s health.

If confirmed, Mr. Becerra will immediately face a daunting task in leading the department at a critical moment during a pandemic that has killed more than 281,000 people in the United States — and one that has taken a particularly devastating toll on people of color.

“The A.C.A. has been life-changing and now through this pandemic, we can all see the value in having greater access to quality health care at affordable prices,” Mr. Becerra said in June, when he filed a brief with the Supreme Court in defense of the health care law. “Now is not the time to rip away our best tool to address very real and very deadly health disparities in our communities.”

A spokesman for Mr. Biden’s transition team declined to comment. The president-elect plans to formally announce Mr. Becerra as his choice to lead the health department early this week, along with several other top health care advisers, according to people familiar with the rollout.

Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, will be selected to lead the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, according to a person familiar with Mr. Biden’s deliberations. Dr. Walensky, whose selection was reported earlier by Politico, will replace Dr. Robert R. Redfield as the leader of the scientific agency at the forefront of the nation’s pandemic response.

Dr. Vivek Murthy, who served as surgeon general under President Barack Obama, will reprise that role for Mr. Biden. A telegenic confidant of the president-elect, Mr. Murthy will become one of Mr. Biden’s closest advisers on medical issues and will lead much of the public outreach on the pandemic.

Jeffrey D. Zients, an entrepreneur and management consultant who served as the head of Mr. Obama’s National Economic Council and fixed the bungled rollout of the health law’s online insurance marketplace, will become a coronavirus czar in the White House, leading efforts to coordinate the fight against the coronavirus pandemic among the government’s sprawling agencies.

Some medical experts, who have been pushing the Biden team to name people with medical or public health expertise to serve in health leadership positions, were caught off guard — and unhappily so — by the news of Mr. Becerra’s selection.

In a letter sent last week to Mr. Biden, five leading medical groups — the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of Physicians among them — called on the president-elect to appoint “qualified physicians to serve in key positions critical to advancing the health of our nation.”

One person familiar with that effort said people involved were “astounded” by the selection of Mr. Becerra, and suggested that Mr. Biden elevate Dr. Murthy to a cabinet-level position.

But in an interview on Sunday night, Dr. Ada D. Stewart, the president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, one of the groups that sent the letter, described Mr. Becerra as “a good choice” and “an experienced legislator and executive” — even as she conceded that her group would “prefer, of course, to have a physician in this position.”

“We’ve already seen his commitment to health and equity, and those things can’t be overlooked,” she said.

Mr. Becerra’s experience in Washington may also help Mr. Biden secure legislative changes to bolster the Affordable Care Act, a central promise that the president-elect made during the 2020 campaign.

Mr. Becerra, 62, served 12 terms in Congress, representing Los Angeles, before becoming the attorney general of his home state in 2017. He is the first Latino to hold that office, and while in Congress he was the first Latino to serve as a member of the Ways and Means Committee, where he worked on health care as a senior member of the health subcommittee. He also led the House Democratic Caucus, which gave him a powerful leadership post.

An outspoken advocate of improved health care access, Mr. Becerra said in 2017 that he would “absolutely” support Medicare for all, a proposal for government-run health care that Mr. Biden has explicitly rejected. A source familiar with the selection said Mr. Becerra would support the president-elect’s call for strengthening and preserving the A.C.A. and would not be pushing Medicare for all while in office.

As California’s top law enforcement official, Mr. Becerra helped lead legal fights across the nation for access to health care, focusing in particular on dismantling barriers for women struggling to get medical services.

In April, Mr. Becerra led a coalition of 22 state attorneys general in challenging a Mississippi law that prohibited doctors from providing abortion services past 15 weeks. In a statement at the time, Mr. Becerra called the ban “unjust, unlawful, and unfair.”

“Laws like Mississippi’s are a systematic attempt to undo a woman’s constitutional rights under Roe v. Wade,” he said. “I will continue to stand up for safe access to reproductive care and defend these rights for all women.”

Mr. Becerra’s office boasted frequently of the many lawsuits he had filed against the Trump administration, including suits challenging the president’s immigration and environmental policies. His activism in fighting the Trump agenda in court earned him praise from leading progressives in the Democratic Party.

In September, Mr. Becerra said the tally of his anti-Trump lawsuits had grown to 100.

But Mr. Becerra also partnered with Republican counterparts at times, joining a bipartisan group of attorneys general in August to urge the Department of Health and Human Services and other agencies to increase access to remdesivir, a drug that has shown promise in treating Covid-19. He also worked with Republicans to prevent student vaping.

Born in Sacramento, Mr. Becerra grew up in a working-class family; his mother emigrated from Mexico, and he was the first in his family to graduate from college. He attended Stanford as an undergraduate and received his law degree there in 1984.

Mr. Biden was impressed by Mr. Becerra’s personal story, according to a person familiar with his thinking. In particular, the president-elect liked the fact that Mr. Becerra served clients with mental health needs shortly after graduating from law school, the person said.

While in Congress, Mr. Becerra was a fierce advocate of the Latino community and became deeply involved in efforts to overhaul the nation’s immigration system. He also promoted plans to build a national museum devoted to exploring the culture and history of American Latinos. The House voted this year to create such a museum.

Representative Filemon Vela, Democrat of Texas, praised Mr. Biden’s choice of Mr. Becerra, calling it “historic” and saying the California attorney general was the right person to lead the sprawling agency during the worst public health crisis in 100 years.

“Becerra will lead an agency that will play a crucial role in overseeing a massive immunization effort and help manage a bolstered federal response to tackle the worsening Covid-19 crisis,” Mr. Vela said. “He will also help shape the Biden administration’s efforts to build on the Affordable Care Act.”

In the late 1990s, Mr. Becerra traveled to Cuba and visited with its leader, Fidel Castro, which infuriated Republican members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. They resigned, saying they were “personally insulted” by the visit.

Mr. Biden’s selection of Mr. Becerra to replace the current secretary, Alex M. Azar II, comes as the president-elect is under increasing pressure from the Latino community and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to diversify his cabinet. Mr. Becerra is the second Latino Mr. Biden has chosen for his cabinet after the selection last month of Alejandro N. Mayorkas, a Cuban immigrant, as secretary of homeland security.

Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico had been thought to be in line for the health secretary’s job, but she apparently fell out of the running. Instead, news leaked last week that Ms. Lujan Grisham had been offered, and turned down, the position of interior secretary.

The leak prompted Senator-elect Ben Ray Luján of New Mexico to use a private meeting with top Biden advisers to rebuke the incoming White House chief of staff, Ron Klain, and other senior Biden officials for their treatment of Ms. Lujan Grisham, according to a Democrat familiar with the discussion.

If approved, Mr. Becerra’s nomination would create yet another statewide office in California to be filled by Gov. Gavin Newsom, who was already considering candidates, including Mr. Becerra, for the Senate seat being vacated by Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

Mr. Becerra has been California’s attorney general since 2017, when Ms. Harris was elected to the Senate and Gov. Jerry Brown appointed him to fill her seat. His term would expire in 2022.





No.2 article:
Trump Officials Push Ambitious Vaccine Timeline as California Locks Down

As cases surge and hospital beds fill up, federal officials said a vaccine could be distributed to as many as 24 million people by mid-January.

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s top health officials outlined an ambitious timetable on Sunday for distributing the first coronavirus vaccinations to as many as 24 million people by mid-January, even as the accelerating toll of the pandemic filled more hospital beds across the United States and prompted new shutdown orders in much of California.

After criticism from President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. that the administration had “no detailed” vaccine distribution plan, Moncef Slaoui, the chief science adviser of Operation Warp Speed, the Trump administration’s vaccine development program, said all residents of long-term care facilities and health workers could receive the first round of vaccinations by mid-January.

A vaccine manufactured by Pfizer could be available by the end of the week, after anticipated approval by the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Slaoui said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday. Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, was just as optimistic.

“Really within days,” Mr. Azar said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Within 24 hours of F.D.A. green lighting with authorization, we’ll ship to all of the states and territories that we work with. And within hours, they can be vaccinating.”

But the hopeful comments were met with some skepticism as they played out against an increasingly desperate backdrop, with the virus surging across the country and packing hospitals to near capacity with critically ill patients. On Friday, more than 229,000 new cases were reported in the United States, a record, and several states hit new daily highs over the weekend. More than 101,000 Covid-19 patients are in hospitals now, double the number from just a month ago.

Health experts said the timeline sketched out by Dr. Slaoui and Mr. Azar was uncompromising and did not account for the possibility of delay during the many steps from vaccine manufacture to distribution at state and local levels, not to mention the hesitancy that many people might feel about taking a newly approved vaccine.

“To meet those kinds of aggressive timelines, all the stars would have to align,” said Dr. Peter J. Hotez, the dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine.

Dr. Slaoui said his team charged with distributing the vaccine was scheduled on Monday to brief advisers to Mr. Biden, who complained last week that there was “no detailed plan that we’ve seen, anyway, as to how you get the vaccine out of a container, into an injection syringe, into somebody’s arm.”

Mr. Azar disputed Mr. Biden’s remarks.

“With all respect, that’s just nonsense,” he said. “We have comprehensive plans from the C.D.C., working with 64 public health jurisdictions across the country, as our governors have laid out very detailed plans that we’ve worked with them on.”

At a rally in Georgia on Saturday night, President Trump once again claimed that the country was “rounding the corner” in dealing with the pandemic, a statement at odds with scenes in communities across the country, where doctors and nurses are struggling to cope with more cases of the virus than ever before.

On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Trump announced on Twitter that his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has led the president’s efforts to overturn the results of the election, had tested positive for the virus.

In California, under orders issued on Thursday by Gov. Gavin Newsom, residents across the southern and central parts of the state were directed not to leave their homes for three weeks starting at 11:59 p.m. Sunday, joining parts of the San Francisco Bay Area in shuttering outdoor dining and bars and roping off playgrounds.

Daily case reports have tripled in the last month in California, where more than 25,000 new infections were reported on Saturday. Los Angeles County, with more than 8,900 new cases, broke its record for the third straight day.

At the U.C. San Diego Medical Center, just six of 112 intensive care beds were unoccupied on Sunday, and doctors expressed concern that an extended crisis would put extreme pressure on nurses and doctors.

“It’s more about the duration,” said Dr. Chris Longhurst, the hospital’s associate chief medical officer. “If the surge were 48 hours, it would be all hands on deck and we’d all be there to take care of them, and then we could get through it. What you can’t manage is a sustained surge.”

Before Sunday, much of California was already under a curfew prohibiting residents from leaving their homes to do nonessential work or to gather from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. The governor’s order required regions in the state to be placed under new restrictions once their intensive care unit availability fell below 15 percent.

With capacity at 6.6 percent in the San Joaquin Valley and 10.3 percent in Southern California on Sunday, shops there must operate at limited capacity, and private gatherings are prohibited. Any open businesses must require everyone inside to wear masks and distance themselves. Among the facilities that must close: hair salons and barbershops; museums, zoos and aquariums; indoor movie theaters; and wineries and breweries.

“I haven’t heard of anybody panicking,” said Rachel Heimann, 25, who lives in San Francisco. “We all want things to go back to normal, and we want people to stop getting sick. This is just a really concrete reminder that things are getting worse.”

California’s new measures are its strictest since the beginning of the pandemic, when it became the first state to issue a stay-at-home order, helping to control an early outbreak. But many residents are weary after nine months of shifting rules about where they can go, whether they can eat indoors or outdoors and whether their children can go to school. In some cases, the restrictions run counter to moves in other places: New York City, for example, will reopen some public schools on Monday, reflecting changing public health thinking about the importance of children being in the classroom, while schools in Los Angeles and some other large districts in California remain closed.

So this time, California’s restrictions have been met with more skepticism and outright defiance in some areas, even though state and local health officials have described the spread of the virus as much more dangerous now than in the spring.

Over the weekend, Los Angeles streets that had until recently been alive with diners sitting on sidewalks or in parking lots were quieter, but shoppers still streamed into grocery stores and clustered outside restaurants waiting for takeout. Inside a dim post office in the Echo Park neighborhood, a queue of customers — spaced as best they could — snaked around the small, enclosed room lined with mailboxes.

Mr. Newsom has emphasized that California will withhold funding from counties that refuse to enforce the stay-at-home order. After some counties pushed back on prevention measures during a summer surge, an enforcement task force levied more than $2 million in fines against businesses, issued 179 citations and revoked three business licenses.

There is also resistance from government leaders, parents and public health experts to playground closings.

Being outside at playgrounds makes it harder for the virus to spread, and the risk of transmission through contaminated services is minimal — particularly when using hand sanitizer and masks and engaging in social distancing, said Joseph Allen, an associate professor of exposure assessment science at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.

“When you step back and look at this from a real exposure risk standpoint, these are the exact kind of activities we should be encouraging,” he said.

Ana Padilla, the executive director of the Community and Labor Center at the University of California, Merced, said in an email that the new order was likely to be effective at controlling the virus in communities where many middle-class workers work remotely and order takeout.

“It will do less for workers who have no choice but to work in low-wage, essential jobs, in which they frequently come into contact with others,” she said.

Delaware, Michigan, Oregon, Washington State and cities such as Philadelphia and Los Angeles have also reimposed restrictions aimed at slowing the spread of the virus.

In Washington, a bipartisan group of senators on Sunday urged passage of a $908 billion stimulus proposal to break the stalemate in Congress over delivering additional economic relief to Americans battered by shutdowns and restrictions like those in California and elsewhere.

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and one of the lawmakers who drafted the plan, said on “State of the Union” that “it would be stupidity on steroids if Congress doesn’t act.” But he predicted a few more “days of drama” before the deal gained enough support to pass both chambers.

Intended as a stopgap measure to last until March, the plan would restore federal unemployment benefits that lapsed over the summer, but at half the rate, providing $300 a week for 18 weeks. It would give $160 billion to state, local and tribal governments facing fiscal ruin, a fraction of what Democrats had sought. Also included is $288 billion to help small businesses and a short-term federal liability shield from coronavirus-related lawsuits.

In Britain, 800,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine were being transported to government warehouses on Sunday after the country’s regulators became the first in the world to authorize a fully tested vaccine last week. The country’s National Health Service was set to begin vaccinating doctors, nurses, pharmacists, nursing home workers and some people over 80 on Tuesday.

American and European regulators have questioned Britain’s hasty authorization process, but British lawmakers have largely brushed off those concerns, forging ahead with an aggressive strategy of fast-track reviews that could result in a second vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, also being authorized for emergency use within weeks.

In the United States, an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration will meet on Thursday to review safety and efficacy data on Pfizer’s vaccine. A second vaccine, made by Moderna, has also been submitted for emergency authorization. And two other candidates, made by AstraZeneca and Johnson &amp; Johnson, are not far behind, if their development does not hit unexpected snags.

Operation Warp Speed’s timeline has shifted more than once already. The project was initially expected to produce 300 million doses by the end of the year. And Pfizer said this summer that it would have 100 million doses by year’s end. But the companies have hit manufacturing and supply chain problems.

Together, Pfizer and Moderna now might produce 45 million doses by January. The vaccines were not likely to be available to everyone until the end of the summer, experts said.

Dr. Slaoui acknowledged the possibility of delays. “This is not an engineering problem. These are biological problems. They’re extremely complex,” he said. “There will be small glitches.”

Dr. Ashish K. Jha, the dean of the School of Public Health at Brown University, expressed concern about a lack of clarity at the state level on how vaccines would be distributed to medical centers, nursing homes or pharmacies. And because fewer than half of several high-risk groups — Black people, firefighters, health care workers — have said they would take a vaccine, persuading them to do so will require careful planning and communication to build confidence.

“We have not been doing any of that,” Dr. Jha said, “and that’s not something you turn on overnight.”





No.3 article:
Bergamo’s Pandemic Survivors Carry Scars Unseen and Incalculable

Plagued by guilt, anger and regrets, those still alive in the hardest hit place in Italy, and perhaps the world, grapple to understand how the virus has changed them.

NEMBRO, Italy — Every Monday night in the northern Italian town that had perhaps the highest coronavirus death rate in all of Europe, a psychologist specializing in post-traumatic stress leads group therapy sessions in the local church.

“She has treated survivors of war,” the Rev. Matteo Cella, the parish priest of the town, Nembro, in Bergamo province, said of the psychologist. “She says the dynamic is the same.”

First the virus exploded in Bergamo. Then came the shell shock. The province that first gave the West a preview of the horrors to come — oxygen-starved grandparents, teeming hospitals and convoys of coffins rolling down sealed-off streets — now serves as a disturbing postcard from the post-traumatic aftermath.

In small towns where many know one another, there is apprehension about other people, but also survivor’s guilt, anger, second thoughts about fateful decisions and nightmares about dying wishes unfulfilled. There is a pervasive anxiety that, with the virus surging anew, Bergamo’s enormous sacrifice will soon recede into history, that its towns will be forgotten battlefields from the great first wave, that its dead will become engraved names on another rusted plaque.

And most of all there is a collective grappling to understand how the virus has changed people. Not just their antibodies, but their selves.

“It has closed me more,” Monia Cagnoni, 41, who lost her mother to the virus and then developed pneumonia, said as she sat apart from her father and sister on the stairs of their family home. “I want to be more alone.”

Her sister, Cinzia, 44, who prepared coffee and cake in the kitchen, had the opposite impulse.

“I need people more than ever,” she said. “I don’t like to be alone.”

Bergamo, like everywhere, now confronts a second wave of the virus. But its sacrifice has left it better prepared than most places, as the widespread infection rate of the first wave has conferred a measure of immunity for many, doctors say. And its medical staff, by now drilled in the virus’s awful protocols, are taking in patients from outside the province to alleviate the burdens on overwhelmed hospitals nearby.

But even as contagion still threatens them from without, the wounds of the first wave gnaw at them from within.

Talking about these things does not come easily to people in Italy’s industrial heartland, jammed with metal-mechanic and textile factories, paper mills, billowing smokestacks and gaping warehouses. They prefer to talk about how much they work. Almost apologetically they reveal that they are hurting.

In the town of Osio Sopra, Sara Cagliani, 30, can’t get over her failure to fulfill her father’s dying wish.

A sign on her home’s gate reads, “Here lives an Alpine soldier.” When the coronavirus crisis began, her father, Alberto Cagliani, 67, offered his help, telling his daughter, “‘Remember, I’m an Alpine soldier, and we show up in an emergency.’”

After retiring as a truck driver, he had volunteered for a funeral home, driving around the province, retrieving the bodies of men killed in auto accidents and dressing them in suits given by their families. In February, he volunteered again, but this time the body count was overwhelming.

He became taciturn and stopped coming home to eat. “A slaughter without end,” he told his daughter. On March 13, after tending to another victim, he felt a pain in his right shoulder that spread to his lower back. His voice weakened. The sound of the television bothered him. On March 21, his wife saw him touching the bathroom towels just to see if he could feel them. His fingertips had gone numb. His legs followed. He died of Covid the next day with water in his lungs.

His last wish was to be buried in his Alpine soldier’s uniform, and his daughter sought to honor that, sending the green jacket and pants to the funeral home. The morticians sent them back, explaining that the fear of contagion made dressing bodies impossible.

“To put him in a sack, this is my greatest regret,” Ms. Cagliani said through tears, adding that she had started seeing a psychologist and that the tragedy had changed many in her close-knit town.

“People are scared to see one another,” she said. “There is a lack of affection, of touching and holding.”

Others are haunted by the horrible choices the virus forced them to make.

In the middle of March, Laura Soliveri began taking care of her mother who had developed Covid symptoms in the Bergamo town of Brignano Gera d’Adda. The doctors told her they didn’t have masks and would not come check on her. Her brother, a pharmacist, warned her not to allow their mother to be taken by an ambulance or be brought to a hospital, because the family would never see her again.

Ms. Soliveri, a 58-year-old grade-school teacher,  scoured the area for available oxygen tanks to slake her gasping mother’s thirst for air. Finally they found her one. Her mother improved.

Then Ms. Soliveri’s husband, Gianni Pala, got the virus, too.

She and her family scrambled to find more oxygen, this time for him. They couldn’t take it away from her mother. His condition deteriorated and he required hospitalization. He died, age 64, on April 5. Her mother, 85, survived.

“My mother had the oxygen but we couldn’t take it from her to give to him,” said Ms. Soliveri, who has also started seeing a therapist and taking antidepressants and fiddling with her husband’s wedding ring, which she now wears on her middle finger. “I would have done it.”

The virus has tested some people’s faith — Ms. Soliveri has said she had lost her ability to pray — and fortified it in others.

Over the summer, Raffaella Mezzetti, 48, a volunteer for the Catholic charity Caritas, said the church had become a balm for the traumatized. But she said she still got chills when she heard the jingles of the ads that were on TV at the time. The sirens of ambulances, which she said were maybe bringing women to the hospital to give birth, made her nervous. “It sticks with you,” she said.

On the Day of the Dead in Nembro, a volunteer pressed sanitizer onto the hands of hundreds of bereaved entering the cemetery to listen to Father Cella.

Delia Morotti, 57, who contracted the virus herself, left the Mass early. She said hearing the names of all the dead infuriated her. Both her parents were among them.

“They didn’t deserve this. First my father died. And then my mother,” she said. “I’ve been seeing a psychologist for months.”

Others have found more self-destructive ways to cope.

Doctors at the Pesenti Fenaroli hospital, which served as a critical incubator for the contagion, said they had seen a spike in patients for substance abuse issues. Around the province, psychologists have reported a rise in anxiety and depression.

The nurses taking care of those patients and the province’s other sick are no longer the objects of outpourings of affection.

“It’s not like it used to be,” said Katia Marcassoli, a nurse at Pesenti Fenaroli. People had stopped calling the nurses to express solidarity and to ask how they were coping. Instead patients called with anger about their appointments canceled for other procedures. “There’s a lot of anger.”

The medical crisis delayed Giovanni Cagnoni from getting his stomach pains checked out. When doctors properly examined him, they discovered he had a rare cancer, liposarcoma, concentrated around his kidneys. By the time he got a surgery date, in August, it had metastasized and was no longer operable.

“The hospitals weren’t taking anyone,” he said in his home in Gazzaniga, where he sat in front of a fire with his two daughters.

The Cagnoni family had already been through an inferno, the minutiae of which the 76-year-old former military police commander punctiliously noted in a green notebook titled “Chronicle of Covid-19.”

On March 8, his wife, Maddalena Peracchi, felt a chill on a walk. Over the next 11 days, he registered her fevers (99.32, 97.7, 100.4) and then on March 19 her condition plummeted and a team of ambulance workers in hazmat suits entered their home and took her away.

On March 20, her brother called to encourage them “and died that evening.”

On March 29, Mr. Cagnoni noted “Daylight Saving Time” and that doctors had called to tell him his wife’s time had all but expired. March 30 was “interminable,” he wrote, and he received no news. On March 31, he called the hospital and learned his wife had died the night before.

“They forgot to call us,” the blue script reads. On April 11, as his daughter Monia recovered from the virus, Mr. Cagnoni’s diary noted his first stomachache.

So many families had lost relatives that when Bergamo came out of the monthslong lockdown in the summer, many people discovered that their friends and neighbors had vanished. But there was also a palpable desire to move on.

Father Cella ran a summer camp. Children played in front of the sprinklers at Nembro’s town hall. And even as fear lurked in the air like poisonous droplets, people in the capital city of Bergamo tentatively ventured out.

In July in Piazza Pontida, where “We Are Bergamo” signs hung defiantly from the buildings, Roberta Pedretti, 52, went out for an aperitif with other nurses with whom she had become close during the trench warfare of the crisis. 

She looked around at the people filling the bars and restaurants.

“Bergamo is trying to come back but it’s full of fear,” she said then. “It saw too many cadavers. It can’t be like before.”

In the autumn, cases exploded again, and in November a curfew snuffed out Bergamo’s flickers of social life.

The funicular railway and the winding staircase that led up to the medieval hilltop town were both deserted. The restaurants were closed. Patrol cars threw blue siren light on the stone walls as they monitored the streets for gatherings.

The “We Are Bergamo” signs had turned weather-beaten and torn.





No.4 article:
‘Existential Peril’: Mass Transit Faces Huge Service Cuts Across U.S.

Reeling from the pandemic, transit agencies are grappling with drastic reductions in ridership and pleading for help from Washington.

In Boston, transit officials warned of ending weekend service on the commuter rail and shutting down the city’s ferries. In Washington, weekend and late-night metro service would be eliminated and 19 of the system’s 91 stations would close. In Atlanta, 70 of the city’s 110 bus routes have already been suspended, a move that could become permanent.

And in New York City, home to the largest mass transportation system in North America, transit officials have unveiled a plan that could slash subway service by 40 percent and cut commuter rail service in half.

Across the United States, public transportation systems are confronting an extraordinary financial crisis set off by the pandemic, which has starved transit agencies of huge amounts of revenue and threatens to cripple service for years.

The profound cuts agencies are contemplating could hobble the recoveries of major cities from New York to Los Angeles and San Francisco, where reliable transit is a lifeblood of the local economies.

Trains and buses carry the office workers, shoppers and tourists who will help revive stores, restaurants, cultural attractions, hotels and other key businesses that have been battered by the outbreak.

The financial collapse of transportation agencies would especially hurt minority and low-income riders who tend to be among the biggest users of subways and buses.

For months, transit officials around the country have pleaded for help from the federal government, but with no new lifeline forthcoming and many systems facing December deadlines to balance their budgets, agencies have started to outline doomsday service plans that would take effect next year.

A glimmer of hope emerged in recent days, when a bipartisan group of lawmakers in Congress proposed $15 billion for public transit agencies as part of a $908 billion framework for a pandemic-relief package.

The plan, which President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has said he supports, would provide nearly half of the $32 billion that transit leaders have lobbied for in recent months and that is intended to provide short-term relief.

But it has yet to be endorsed by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, who has proposed a smaller stimulus plan that contains no financing for public transit. On Friday, Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker and a Democrat, expressed optimism that a compromise deal could be achieved before the end of the year.

Even if they receive some aid, transit agencies in some large cities have experienced such severe financial losses that officials say they will be forced to pare back service to save operating funds while serving riderships that are far below normal levels.

It is unclear whether ridership will ever fully return to pre-pandemic levels even after effective vaccines become widely available. Some commuters may end up working from home permanently; others may abandon public transit if cuts cause service to deteriorate.

“This is existential peril,” said Ben Fried, a spokesman for TransitCenter, an advocacy group.

“The economic rationale for cities is that people are in close proximity and can do a lot of things without spending a lot of time traveling from place to place,” Mr. Fried said. “If the transit network is seriously diminished in a dozen or so cities that are a focal point for a large share of the nation’s economic output, then that’s going to have severe impacts on the national economy.”

Since the pandemic swept across America in the spring, bringing urban life to a standstill and ushering in new work-from-home norms, nearly all of the sources of money that public transit relies on have been pummeled.

Ridership, and fare revenue along with it, vanished practically overnight after lockdown orders were enacted. As the economy slid into recession, the sales and income tax revenue used to finance many transit networks plunged. And cities and states sunk into their own financial crises, threatening government subsidies for public transit systems.

New York City’s transit agency, which is grappling with the biggest losses of any system in the country, forecasts a $6.1 billion deficit next year. Officials in Boston are dealing with a $600 million budget hole, and Chicago’s agency anticipates a $500 million shortfall.

By September, nationwide ridership on mass transit had crept back to nearly 40 percent of its pre-pandemic levels from a low of 19 percent in April, according to the American Public Transportation Association, a lobbying group.

But the numbers have plateaued in recent weeks as the virus surges throughout the country, making this the longest and most severe period of suppressed ridership for any of the nation’s public transit systems.

In New York, ridership is at 30 percent of pre-pandemic levels, while on rail lines in Washington and San Francisco, it is below 15 percent of its usual levels.

“The effect on ridership in each of our agencies — subway, buses, Metro-North, Long Island Railroad — is dramatically worse than even in the Great Depression,” said Patrick J. Foye, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs New York City’s subway and buses and two commuter railroads. 

Many big city systems rely on fare revenue more heavily than their counterparts in smaller cities and rural areas and have tended to get a smaller share of federal support relative to their size.

Fares contribute 70 percent of the operating budget in San Francisco, 40 percent in New York and Washington and about 33 percent in Boston.

There is no legislative text yet for the bipartisan proposal that Republican and Democratic Senators are now negotiating, nor are there specifics for how the transit aid would be divided among agencies.

“This is not limited to big, urban cities and states — lots of rural areas depend on buses that also get federal funding — so it has some degree of bipartisan support,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, said in an interview. “But there are some who have never wanted any federal help for mass transit and that’s who we are up against.”

The stimulus package that is being negotiated is likely to face opposition from some liberal lawmakers who consider it insufficient and some conservatives who are unwilling to add to the national debt.

“The real answer to the economic problems is to get rid of what causes the economic problems and they’re caused by economic dictates from governors that forbid commercial activity,” Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, told reporters on Tuesday. “I’m not for borrowing any more money.”

When transit agencies have faced financial shortfalls in the past, they have typically turned to city and state governments or they have lobbied elected officials for new sources of revenue like dedicated taxes.

But many municipal and state governments are grappling with their own financial problems, forcing transit agencies to look to Washington.

“Unlike some other transit properties, we don’t have our own revenue source, we have two sources of revenue, it’s either the farebox or the subsidies from our local and state government,” said Paul J. Wiedefeld, the general manager of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. “They are both under tremendous financial distress right now, so where do we turn?”

Many urban transit systems have exhausted the money they got from an earlier federal stimulus bill and have also imposed service cuts.

In New York, overnight subway service has been suspended since May. In Los Angeles, bus service has been slashed nearly 30 percent and rail service has also been cut. And the Bay Area Rapid Transit rail system in San Francisco has ended late night service and pushed wait times for trains from 15 to 30 minutes.

The cuts have helped stabilize operations and allowed them to continue providing at least limited service. But officials warn that the cutbacks could become permanent and that more could be added at the beginning of next year, a devastating prospect for the essential workers and low-wage riders who continue to rely on public transit.

Around 2.8 million American workers in essential industries like health care, grocery stores and pharmacies used public transit to get to work in 2018, according to an analysis of census data by the TransitCenter. That was 36 percent of all transit commuters in the U.S. work force that year, the group said.

“We have been the ones that have kept the economy of this country afloat because we do not have the luxury to work from home,” said Mayra Romero, 43, a restaurant worker in Boston who travels by bus from her home in nearby Chelsea, Mass. “We have been the ones who have been risking our lives and exposing ourselves.”

Margaret Dunn, who lives in Clinton, Md. and works at a hotel in Washington, used to work until midnight before she was laid off in March. Now, as she waits for a call to return to her job, she worries that service cuts could leave her with few travel options once her shift ends.

“We direly need some help.” she said, adding that she may have to rely on Uber or her husband to drive her.

In Washington, transit officials say that if the system receives sufficient federal assistance they will revive service as much as possible to help coax riders back as vaccines are distributed and the cadence of normal life begins to return.

But in other cities, additional federal aid may not guarantee the return of service. In Boston, New York and San Francisco, transit officials have said they plan to recalibrate service to match what they expect to be long-lasting, depressed levels of ridership.

“With the first tranche of money we got, we immediately put it in place to plug the budget gap because there was so much uncertainty, but as a consequence that money will run out this fiscal year,” said Steve Poftak, the general manager of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, which serves the Boston area. “We want to do as much as we can in this period of low ridership so we have a reserve in place that we can apply to fiscal year 2022.”

“That’s been our approach,” he added. “Preserve our service now, but also keep an eye toward the future.”

Transit experts worry that with more cuts public transportation agencies could plunge into a “death spiral,” where increasingly unreliable service keeps riders away, pushing systems deeper into financial distress.

With public health officials expecting the distribution of vaccines to begin early next year, agencies could wind up cutting service just as riders return to their commutes.

“Transit is not going to be there for people at the exact moment they are ready for transit again,” said Nick Sifuentes, executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, an advocacy group. “We are looking at millions of people getting ready to head back to their workplaces and the thing they relied on to get there won’t be reliable anymore.”





No.5 article:
Europe’s Deadly Second Wave: How Did It Happen Again?





No.6 article:
In Georgia Debate, Kelly Loeffler Won’t Say Trump Lost

Republicans fear that President Trump’s grievances about the results might persuade his supporters to sit out Georgia’s two runoff elections, including Ms. Loeffler’s race, that will determine control of the Senate.

ATLANTA — In a televised debate on Sunday night, Senator Kelly Loeffler, a Georgia Republican, declined to say that President Trump had lost the election, arguing instead that the president had “every legal recourse available” to pursue his baseless assertion that the vote in Georgia was rigged against him.

Ms. Loeffler, whose runoff race is one of two in Georgia that will determine control of the Senate on Jan. 5, has emerged as a staunch defender of Mr. Trump. She used the debate to label her Democratic opponent, the Rev. Raphael Warnock, as a “radical liberal” more than a dozen times over the course of an hour.

Mr. Warnock criticized Ms. Loeffler, one of the richest members of the Senate, for making a large number of stock trades after she attended a briefing on the coronavirus in January. Ms. Loeffler did not answer directly when asked whether members of Congress should be barred from trading stocks.

“Look, what’s at stake here in this election is the American dream,” Ms. Loeffler said, calling the question of her stock trades “a left-wing media lie.” She added, “This is an attack on every single Georgian who gets up every day to work hard to provide a better life for their family.”

Ms. Loeffler’s trades and those of two other senators were investigated by the Justice Department, but the department announced in May that it would not pursue insider trading charges against them. A Senate Ethics Committee investigation also found no evidence of violations.

The debate came one day after Mr. Trump held a rally in Georgia in which he falsely claimed that he had won the state — and after he made a phone call to Gov. Brian Kemp, asking him to call a special session of the Republican-controlled legislature so that lawmakers could appoint new electors who would subvert the will of the state’s voters when the Electoral College meets on Dec. 14.

In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Kemp and Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan, both Republicans, said that a special session would not be called in Georgia, reiterating a position they had taken previously. “Doing this in order to select a separate slate of presidential electors is not an option that is allowed under state or federal law,” they said.

Mr. Kemp and Mr. Duncan added that state law allows the legislature only to “direct an alternative method for choosing presidential electors if the election was not able to be held on the date set by federal law.”

Ms. Loeffler and Georgia’s other Republican senator, David Perdue, have both stuck by the president, attending the rally with him in Valdosta, Ga., on Saturday. But prominent Republicans are worried that Mr. Trump’s airing of his grievances about his loss in the state might convince his supporters that Georgia’s voting system is indeed rigged and that they should sit out the crucially important runoff elections.

Losses by both Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue would hand control of the Senate to the Democrats.

At the debate, Ms. Loeffler hammered repeatedly on her theme that Mr. Warnock — the pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once preached — was dangerously out of step with Georgia values. She said that he had criticized the police from the pulpit and advocated “socialism” and abortion rights.

Mr. Warnock also portrayed Ms. Loeffler as being out of touch, bringing up her stock trades and criticizing her initial opposition to Congress’s relief package for people and businesses affected by the coronavirus pandemic. (Ms. Loeffler eventually voted for the $2 trillion package in March.)

Mr. Warnock also sought to make the case, late in the debate, that Ms. Loeffler was a radical in her own right, noting that she “welcomed the support of a QAnon conspiracy theorist,” a likely reference to Representative-elect Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, who has espoused the movement’s pro-Trump conspiracy theories in the past.

The debate came at the end of a day made particularly tense by Mr. Trump’s assertion, at his Saturday night rally, that the presidential election had been “rigged” in Georgia, a state that two recounts have shown he lost. The latest tally has Joseph R. Biden Jr. winning by about 12,000 votes.

Georgia has already seen remarkable Republican infighting over Mr. Trump’s push to reverse the results of the race. Violent threats against elections workers have grown so problematic that a top state elections official, Gabriel Sterling, a Republican, last week asked the president to check his inflammatory language.

On Sunday morning, high-ranking Georgia officials from Mr. Trump’s own party pushed back, yet again, against the president’s bogus assertions of widespread electoral fraud.

Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican who has become one of the chief targets of Mr. Trump’s wrath in recent days, went on the ABC program “This Week” and addressed the president’s phone call to Mr. Kemp.

Mr. Raffensperger, who, like Mr. Kemp, supported Mr. Trump in the election, said that holding a special session would amount to “nullifying the will of the people.”

“At the end of the day, the voice of the people were spoken,” he said. “I’m disappointed as a conservative Republican also.”

The other runoff race in Georgia pits Mr. Perdue, a former corporate executive, against Jon Ossoff, a 33-year-old Democrat and documentary filmmaker. Mr. Perdue declined to attend a debate with Mr. Ossoff on Sunday, which resulted in a strange 30-minute session in which Mr. Ossoff faced off against an empty lectern.

Mr. Ossoff called Mr. Perdue a “coward” for not debating and criticized what he described as the senator’s early understatement of the threat posed by the coronavirus. “The reason that we are losing thousands of people per day to this virus is because of the arrogance of politicians like David Perdue,” Mr. Ossoff said. “So arrogant that he disregarded public health expertise, and so arrogant that he’s not with us here today to answer questions.”

He added, “He believes the Senate seat belongs to him.”

Standing alone on the debate stage, Mr. Ossoff took aim, as he has in the past, at Mr. Perdue’s own controversial stock trades, which prompted Mr. Ossoff in a previous debate to call Mr. Perdue a “crook.” The New York Times has reported that the Justice Department investigated but declined to charge Mr. Perdue for possible insider trading over his sale of more than $1 million worth of stock in a financial-analysis firm. The Times and other outlets have also documented numerous instances in which Mr. Perdue traded stocks in companies that stood to benefit from policies before committees and subcommittees on which he serves.

“His blatant abuse of his power and privilege to enrich himself is disgraceful,” Mr. Ossoff said.

Mr. Perdue has previously said he has done nothing wrong.

At one point in Ms. Loeffler’s debate with Mr. Warnock, she asked him about his arrest in 2002 for obstructing law enforcement officials who were conducting a child abuse investigation at a summer camp in Maryland that was affiliated with Mr. Warnock’s church at the time.

Mr. Warnock responded that he was “working at trying to make sure that young people, who were being questioned by law enforcement, had the benefit of counsel, a lawyer or a parent.” He added, “The law enforcement officers actually later thanked me for my cooperation and for helping them.”

The website PolitiFact and others have noted that the charges were dismissed by a judge after a prosecutor said there had been a “miscommunication” with Mr. Warnock, who had been “very helpful” with the investigation.

Mr. Biden’s victory in Georgia was a remarkable upset for Democrats in a state that has been reliably Republican for years. The result sent a shock wave through the state’s conservative establishment. Last week, a group of prominent Georgia Republicans, including former Gov. Nathan Deal, released an open letter arguing that Republicans need to heal their divisions, unify their party and focus on the runoffs if they are to maintain control of the Senate.

Mr. Trump’s war with Georgia’s Republican leadership over the state’s election results continues to put Republicans who oversaw the election in the position of defending the integrity of the voting system.

“The president’s statements are false,” Mr. Sterling, the elections official, said in an appearance on the NBC program “Meet the Press” on Sunday. “They are misinformation. They are stoking anger and fear among his supporters — and hell, I voted for him.”

Mr. Trump has raised a flurry of claims to try to undermine the results, railing against vote-counting machines and falsely asserting that mail-in ballots are rife with fraud.

Mr. Sterling gained widespread attention last week for directly calling out Mr. Trump at an emotional news conference, during which he condemned the spread of spurious claims surrounding the election and the silence of Republicans who were refusing to challenge it.

On Sunday, Mr. Sterling reiterated his outrage and his disappointment, particularly in Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler, who for the most part have stood by Mr. Trump.

“I’m a Republican,” Mr. Sterling said. “We need to hold on to the Senate, so I’m still going to vote for them. But I’m not happy with how they’ve conducted themselves in this particular situation.”





No.7 article:
Park With Covid Memorial Is Rising on Site of Former Toxic Dump

Hundreds of trees will be planted in a grove at the new Skyway Park — one for every resident of Jersey City who has died of the virus.

JERSEY CITY, N.J. — Of all the toxic dumps in New Jersey, perhaps none was more infamous than PJP Landfill.

It was here, at the edges of the Hackensack River in Jersey City, that underground fires erupted spontaneously for more than a decade, belching acrid smoke so thick it could snarl traffic on an adjacent bridge, the Pulaski Skyway, a key link for commuters to New York City.

Firefighters tried dousing the smoldering land in the mid-1980s with 300,000 gallons of water a day, but residents complained that the spraying did not help. 

A reputed mobster who had used the property when it was owned by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark even claimed that it was the final resting place of the world’s most notorious Teamster: Jimmy Hoffa.

That was then.

Now, 30 years after the dump was held up as the poster child for toxic nightmares by the New Jersey congressman who wrote the Superfund law, plans for a phoenixlike rebirth await.

It is about to be added to the ranks of wastelands reinvented as wonderlands, joining Fresh Kills on Staten Island, Mount Trashmore in Virginia and Sai Tso Wan Recreation Ground in Hong Kong.

The site, which was designated a Superfund priority in 1983, is being converted into a public park with one of the nation’s first memorials to victims of Covid-19.

As part of a $10 million makeover, more than 500 trees will be planted in a grove of the newly named Skyway Park — one for every Jersey City resident who has died of the coronavirus, the mayor, Steven M. Fulop, announced on Thursday.

Each person’s name will also be included on a memorial wall, giving relatives of the dead a place to mourn. Many families were unable to observe traditional funeral rituals as the pandemic ravaged the Northeast.

“We wanted to do something significant for those families that didn’t get to grieve properly, and we’re taking a step forward in that direction,” Mr. Fulop said. “It has been a tough year for the city.”

For Mr. Fulop, the pain is personal. His grandmother died of Covid-19, and the City Council lost one of its members to the virus in April, Michael Yun.

Vernon Richardson, who was an aide to Mr. Yun, said the park would “represent the resiliency of the city — everyone from those who died to those who loved them to those who just had a bad 2020.”

The site, polluted by hazardous chemicals when it was used as an industrial landfill in the 1970s, has been remediated and capped to make it safe for visitors, but extra soil will be brought in for planting.

Once the park is complete — likely next summer or fall — walkways will wend along the river, through a pollinator garden and beside green spaces lined with flowers and reedy grasses native to the low-lying wetland area. A pedestrian bridge designed in the image of the Pulaski will connect two sides of the 32-acre site, which is bisected by a stream known as the Sip Avenue Ditch.

A formal Covid-19 memorial installation will be erected beneath the bridge; visitors will be able to walk between the rows of trees on paths that run perpendicular to the main promenade.

“To come into Jersey City from this west side, and to see a grove of trees, is going to be a beautiful thing,” said Mira Prinz-Arey, a Jersey City councilwoman. “It will be improving the quality of life for our residents in the area who have basically no green space at all.”

The idea for the park was planted more than 12 years ago when Bill Matsikoudis, the city’s former top lawyer, proposed buying the property. The $12.7 million purchase was finalized in 2012.

“To see a place that constituted one of the most polluted parcels in the United States of America be returned to nature — a place where trees and wetlands and egrets can make a home — is extraordinary,” said Mr. Matsikoudis, who ran for mayor against Mr. Fulop, a fellow Democrat, in 2017.

The memorial grove of trees, Mr. Matsikoudis added, is “fitting in so many ways.”

“They’re a sign of life,” he said. “They’ll bring oxygen into a community that was choked for so long.”

A public housing complex sits across a four-lane highway from the landfill, at the edge of the Marion neighborhood, an historically Italian enclave.

Decades ago, neighbors held community meetings and demonstrations, demanding action that eventually paved the way for emergency funds that were used to put out the fires for good.

On Thursday, as politicians and environmentalists gathered next to the river, they invoked that past and noted that the wheels of environmental justice often turn slowly.

“In a sad way,” said Bill O’Dea, a Hudson County commissioner who was on the Jersey City City Council in the 1980s, “you have to wait 35 years to see the end of that process.”

The park is a key element of a longer-term goal: creating a walkway along the Hackensack River that would stretch more than 10 miles from Bayonne north to Secaucus. A similar planned walkway, the Hudson Essex Greenway, would connect Jersey City, Secaucus, Kearny, Newark, Belleville, Bloomfield, Glen Ridge and Montclair.

Bill Sheehan, who leads the Hackensack Riverkeeper, a nonprofit environmental group, noted the importance of creating open vistas in communities crowded with tall buildings. Eagles, he said, now nest in nearby Kearny.

“When I was a little boy living in Jersey City, the idea of an eagle anywhere near Jersey City was totally off the rails,” Mr. Sheehan said. “Today we’ve got eagles, we’ve got plenty of fish in the river.”

Still, the site’s industrial past is never far from mind.

The Pulaski’s 3.5-mile black-steel span and smokestacks from a power plant across the river dominate the horizon. Planes headed to and from nearby Newark Liberty International Airport leave streaks of smoky white contrails in the sky. The adjacent lots hold an imposing distribution warehouse and an e-commerce company.

And, just maybe, Hoffa’s grave.

Phillip (Brother) Moscato, a reputed member of the Genovese crime family who grew up in Jersey City’s Marion section and died in 2014, reportedly said in interviews that Hoffa was buried in a plot under the Skyway, inside a 55-gallon drum. The body of the Teamsters union boss, who disappeared in 1975 near Detroit, has never been found.

A half-mile away, a large sculpture of a man holding a rolled-up green carpet stands in the shadow of the Skyway’s on-ramp, an image made famous by its appearance in the opening credits of the HBO Mafia hit “The Sopranos.”

Steve Krinsky, chairman of the Skyway Park Conservancy, said it was time to bury that sordid chapter for good.

“Someday soon, Skyway Park will be an open, natural area along the shores of this awesome and cleaner-than-ever river, a part of the rebirth of the green coast of Jersey City, a stop along the Hackensack River Walkway and a world-class park,” Mr. Krinsky said.

“Today is only the first step.”





No.8 article:
How ‘Wolves’ and ‘Heroes’ Are Saving Pandemic Theater

Serious new plays are always in danger of disappearing — never more so than now. But inventive virtual productions, such as “The Wolves” and “Heroes of the Fourth Turning,” offer hope.

It’s all well and good that some theaters are making money during the pandemic by producing what can only be called quasi-theater: magic shows, murder mysteries, a hundred variations on “A Christmas Carol.” I won’t congratulate them here; let their income be its own reward. With luck, they may keep the spark of performance alive to light another night.

The theaters I want to acknowledge now are those that are producing plays of artistic merit in an environment even more hostile to them than usual. That’s a tougher job, but it’s the one that will make the eventual reopening of our stages worth the effort.

These are companies that have doubled down on meaty classics and serious new work, reconfiguring whole seasons for socially distanced delivery systems. Look at the of-the-minute short films from the Steppenwolf Theater Company, the updated verse comedies from Molière in the Park and the all-audio lineup of seven productions from the Williamstown Theater Festival and Audible.

Between new work and classics, though, lies an especially endangered category: recent plays that were emerging into the wider culture after successful New York debuts when the pandemic curtailed their options for production. Lacking familiar titles, and demanding the most thoughtful attention to language and ideas, these plays do not immediately suggest themselves as quick profit centers in an industry trying to pivot on a dime.

So it was heartening, earlier this fall, to see the Maryland-based Olney Theater Center present such an inventive Zoom version of “The Humans,” Stephen Karam’s 2015 play about a family’s economic and spiritual upheaval. Also heartening: Early next year, Dominique Morisseau’s “Paradise Blue,” a jazz noir drama seen at the Signature Theater in New York in 2018, will get the Williamstown-Audible treatment for which it seems, in its intense musicality, even better suited.

Right now, though, I’m floating on the high of seeing, in new formats, two plays I loved the first time around. One is Sarah DeLappe’s “The Wolves,” a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2017 that the Philadelphia Theater Company is offering in an exhilarating Zoom staging through Dec. 20. The other, Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning,” a Pulitzer finalist earlier this year, can be seen through Dec. 13 in a devastating film-theater hybrid from the Wilma Theater, also in Philadelphia.

These are not just dramas; they were considerable dramas to produce. To begin with, “The Wolves” has a big cast; it follows nine teenage girls on an indoor soccer team for several months as they stretch, literally and figuratively. Expectations for it were big as well. Paige Price, the company’s producing artistic director, said “The Wolves” had already been breaking advance sale records when local Covid-19 regulations forced her to shut down production two days before rehearsals were to begin in March.

As Price describes it, there immediately began a hectic process of figuring out what to do besides “trashing the set.” With all that ticket income wiped out, she and the director, Nell Bang-Jensen, had to start from scratch. “Nobody wants to do taped Zoom readings,” Price explained — and “The Wolves” especially, with its blizzard of crosscutting conversation, would probably fall fatally flat in that format.

But as the summer progressed, so did the flexibility of the technology. By sending each actor not only her costumes and props (crutches from Amazon!) but also her own sound equipment and green screen kit, the production team was able to vary the framing in each Zoom box, a huge improvement on early pandemic experiments that were basically neck-up and as visually interesting as tic-tac-toe.

On the other hand, because the theater couldn’t afford to send high-resolution cameras — the budget for the show was $55,000 instead of the $350,000 that might have been spent onstage — the production had to make do with smartphone footage that rendered full-screen close-ups unusable.

In the end, the tech restrictions and handmade quality of the images do not detract from the story. With nine players, the 3-by-3 Zoom grid turns out to be a powerfully expressive element. This is, after all, a play that consists almost entirely of girls caught in the act of growing up, using their pack identity — the team is called the Wolves — as a kind of privacy screen behind which they become individuals. What at first appears to be a single organ, like an insect’s compound eye, turns out, upon Zoom inspection, to be many.

The cast is excellent, landing the jokes no less than the pathos. But what really stands out in this virtual production is the way DeLappe had already shaped the audience’s experience to parallel the girls’. We only slowly discern specific lives within the undifferentiated mass of faces and jerseys. (Amusingly, for Zoom purposes, the jerseys have their numbers facing front instead of back.) As we are discovering them, they are discovering themselves.

“Heroes of the Fourth Turning” is a much more despairing play, less about discovery than about deepening confusion. In a series of painful confrontations, it tests the moral clarity of its main characters: four young adults associated with a deeply conservative Catholic college in Wyoming. What it finds, over the course of a night, soon after a protester was killed at a white nationalist demonstration in Charlottesville, Va., is that they all struggle with beliefs they can no longer make sense of.

To pack so much pain and intensity into a Zoom grid would have been an aesthetic monstrosity, a Greek drama on the set of “The Hollywood Squares.” So when the Wilma’s planned stage production was, like “The Wolves,” shut down, its director, Blanka Zizka, who is also one of the company’s four co-artistic directors, decided instead to recreate “Heroes” as a digital, site-specific production. For two and a half weeks, the actors and crew quarantined together in five Airbnb rentals in the Pocono Mountains. The backyard of one of the Airbnbs was their set; the night was their soundscape, complete with dying crickets that ruined takes.

The play is so tightly written and so specific about its characters that I was not surprised to find the finished production, at least at first, closely mirroring Danya Taymor’s superb original staging for Playwrights Horizons.

But very soon, when the camera panned up from the scene of the four young people drinking and jawing and wrangling over faith to a shot of Orion in a massively starry sky, Zizka’s version, the first since Taymor’s, took on a completely different aspect, more cosmic if perhaps less personal than the original. The virtual experience of a real place — as opposed to what live theater gives you: a real experience of a virtual place — bends the mind toward abstractions.

The play works beautifully that way too, and Zizka clearly relished the new opportunities that filming offered. Reverse angles and close-ups vary the composition and also provide the chance, unavailable in theater, to tell a story partly by showing how characters are listening. “Theater audiences will only look at who’s speaking,” Zizka said.

The downside? “The theater is not a building, it’s people — actors and audiences confronting each other,” she continued. “But now that the play is running, it’s lonely. I have no idea what anyone is feeling.”

Well, I know what I was feeling: once again shattered. And the good news for “Heroes,” as for “The Wolves,” is that pandemic productions as fine as these will keep shattering audiences until they can reassemble to confront live theater again.





No.9 article:
Corrections: Dec. 7, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Monday, Dec. 7, 2020.

A refer on Sunday to the Book Review misstated that the 100 Notable Books of 2020 were selected by Times critics. They were selected by Times editors.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.10 article:
Who Wrote ‘Citizen Kane’? It’s No Mystery

The Netflix drama “Mank” suggests that Herman J. Mankiewicz, credited along with Orson Welles, primarily wrote the script. But that has long been debunked by scholars.

“Mank,” the new drama from David Fincher, revives an old charge against Orson Welles. Was Welles, who with “Citizen Kane” (1941) created what is often cited as the greatest movie ever made on his first try, actually standing on the shoulders of another genius?

The movie, which began streaming on Netflix on Friday, dramatizes the writing of “Citizen Kane” through the eyes of Herman J. Mankiewicz, who received top billing on the shared screenplay credit with Welles. The film focuses on the period when Mankiewicz wrote what became a 300-page doorstop called “American,” partly drawing on his own experiences as a dinner guest of the newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst, the inspiration for the character of Charles Foster Kane.

Fincher’s movie, using a screenplay by his father, Jack Fincher, implies that Mankiewicz was the principal author of the script. When “Citizen Kane” won the Oscar for best original screenplay, neither Welles nor Mankiewicz attended the ceremony, but “Mank” concludes with its title character (Gary Oldman) telling reporters the acceptance speech he would have delivered: “I am very happy to accept this award in the manner in which the screenplay was written, which is to say, in the absence of Orson Welles.” (As recounted in Richard Meryman’s 1978 biography of Mankiewicz, he really did devise an after-the-fact acceptance speech close to those words, although he also enjoyed a teasing correspondence with Welles at that time.)

For Welles scholars, the idea that Mankiewicz alone wrote “Citizen Kane” is an old falsehood, and its continued repetition may testify to the staying power of “Citizen Kane.”

“It’s the greatest film ever made, it has the longest track record of representing what cinema can be, and who’s responsible for making it that way is a continuing story,” Harlan Lebo, the author of “Citizen Kane: A Filmmaker’s Journey,” an exhaustive account of the movie’s making, said.

Any controversy began in 1940, Lebo said. Welles, known for his spellbinding stage and radio productions with the Mercury Theater in New York, was making a much-watched arrival in Hollywood, having signed at age 24 to direct his first picture. He told the gossip columnist Louella Parsons that he had written the forthcoming “Kane.”

“Herman immediately flips, is threatening to sue, wants to make sure he maintains credit,” Lebo said.

Mercury Theater’s radio writers typically didn’t get credit, and Mankiewicz had waived his claim to authorship of “Kane” in a contract with the company. Welles could have pressed for full credit, Lebo writes, but his lawyer advised against the publicity of a dispute, and a shared credit was ultimately agreed to by both writers.

The “Mank” producer Douglas Urbanski said that Welles’s lawyer, L. Arnold Weissberger, had left credit contractually vague. “If they got Herman the drunk who didn’t deliver,” Urbanski said, “there was no way they were going to give it, quite rightly, and if he earned it, Orson was going to do what he ultimately did.” (He acknowledged that some of Weissberger’s communications cut against this theory.)

The question of who wrote what has surfaced periodically over the years, but it lives on mainly because of the New Yorker critic Pauline Kael. In 1971, she wrote a two-part essay in which she asserted, quoting Mankiewicz’s secretary Rita Alexander (Lily Collins in “Mank”), that “Welles didn’t write (or dictate) one line of the shooting script.” Fincher told The New York Times Magazine that the essay, “Raising Kane,” provided the germ of an idea for the screenplay.

The 50,000-word essay is widely regarded as a misstep in Kael’s work as a journalist. She was accused of not having spoken to Welles or Kathryn Trosper, his assistant when “Kane” was written, and of ignoring archival material that might have complicated the article’s contentions. She was even accused of using, without credit, the research of Howard Suber, a young professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, whose interviews with Mankiewicz’s wife, Sara, and others can be found on file with Kael’s papers at Indiana University.

Peter Bogdanovich raised all these charges in 1972 in an Esquire essay, which itself has an air of mystique surrounding its authorship. “I did all the legwork, research and interviews, and the byline carried only my name, but Orson had taken a strong hand in revising and rewriting,” Bogdanovich wrote in 1997. Brian Kellow’s biography of Kael suggests that the critic, who died in 2001, chose not to respond to Bogdanovich’s charges.

For all this, today there is relatively little argument over who wrote what in “Citizen Kane.” In research published in 1978, Robert L. Carringer examined seven drafts of the screenplay in great detail and concluded that the writing Mankiewicz had done in Victorville, Calif., during the period depicted in the film “elaborated the plot logic and laid down the overall story contours,” but that Welles, principally, transformed the script “from a solid basis for a story into an authentic plan for a masterpiece.”

Carringer, who in a recent phone interview professed no interest in seeing “Mank,” described the differences between the two writers’ perspectives. Mankiewicz, he said, was a narrator. “You have a character — well, you have to say his age, family situation, economics,” he said. Welles, on the other hand, “hated that. So at every point possible, he created alternative ways of doing things.”

Mankiewicz’s contributions were essential and in some cases drew on his own experiences. Kael and Meryman both note that as a drama critic at The New York Times in 1925, Mankiewicz passed out drunk while writing a review, just as Jed Leland (Joseph Cotten) does in “Kane.” (The Times ran a notice indicating the review’s absence.)

But Lebo, who has done his own analysis of the scripts and posted various versions of the screenplay online for easy comparison, noted that even the closest thing we have to a final script — the Museum of Modern Art, which holds one of two known copies of that draft, calls it the “Correction Script” — is still filled with strange things that didn’t end up in the movie.

“The final film is not really at all like the final script,” he said. “Every script goes through revisions during production, but this one much more than most, and what Orson Welles did to it, probably literally at the last second during production — just as he did with his theater productions — that’s what made the movie the movie we remember today.”

Even at the time, some cinephiles perceived Kael’s essay as an effort to discredit the auteur theory, the then-ascendant notion that the best directors were responsible for the stylistic imprints of their films.

“She picks the guy who is the epitome of the auteur in America and tears down his one great achievement that everybody can agree on,” said Joseph McBride, who wrote three books on Welles and acted for him in “The Other Side of the Wind,” a film belatedly completed in 2018. “But there’s a misunderstanding about the auteur theory, too.” The French critics who devised it “were accounting mostly for directors who didn’t write scripts, like Raoul Walsh, and how they could put their imprint on films that they hadn’t written.”

That point is made in “Mank,” when Welles (Tom Burke) angrily responds to Mankiewicz’s demand for credit by saying, “Ask yourself, who’s producing this picture, directing it, starring in it?” The critic Andrew Sarris, in an April 1971 retort to Kael’s essay, noted that even if Mankiewicz had written every word, Welles was no less the auteur of “Citizen Kane” than he was of his 1942 adaptation of “The Magnificent Ambersons,” whose “best lines and scenes were written by Booth Tarkington.”

While Urbanski said that Kael’s argument had been discredited by historians, he added: “You could equally say that our film is 100 percent accurate if, and here’s the if, you accept that you’re looking at it through Herman Mankiewicz’s alcoholic perspective, because that changes everything.” Mankiewicz, he said, was the “motor” of a movie that functions on several layers. 

McBride, who defended moviemakers’ right to dramatic leeway, nevertheless views “Mank” as a gross distortion and a missed opportunity to capture what was already an interesting relationship between Mankiewicz and Welles.

“They both worked on it, they both contributed their talents and they were better working together than they were alone,” he said. “You could show that. It wouldn’t detract from Mankiewicz’s genius and Welles’s genius.”

To Fincher, the point of “Mank” isn’t who wrote what. He said through a representative: “It was not my interest to make a movie about a posthumous credit arbitration. I was interested in making a movie about a man who agreed not to take any credit. And who then changed his mind. That was interesting to me.”

Suber, now a professor emeritus, spoke almost nostalgically of how this debate has endured. When he began his “Kane” research for a seminar in 1969, he said, “I was simply interested in how a great screenplay — I’ve never questioned whether it was a great screenplay — how it came into existence.”

In retrospect, he said, the debate over the authorship of “Citizen Kane” belongs “in the same category as debates over who wrote Shakespeare’s plays or did Homer exist?”





No.11 article:
Studying ‘The Nutcracker,’ Students Listen, Touch, Move Like Snow

Music students who are blind and visually impaired are offered a five-week course. “For me this class is about being dance,” its teacher says.

On a November afternoon, seven young students twirled, hopped and lifted their chests to the sky, as Waltz of the Snowflakes from “The Nutcracker” played through their computer speakers. Gathered for a weekly Zoom class, they had arrived at a part of the lesson that one of their teachers, Jenny Seham, called “freestyle snow dancing”: a moment to channel, through improvised movement, the wonder of Tchaikovsky’s music and the freedom of swirling snow.

“You guys really captured the feel for me,” Ms. Seham said when they had finished. “The important thing is that you’re listening to the music.”

Listening is a fundamental skill for anyone learning to dance, but especially so for Ms. Seham’s students. As a longtime teaching artist with National Dance Institute, which brings dance education to New York City children, Ms. Seham has worked for over a decade with students who are blind and visually impaired, in partnership with the Filomen M. D’Agostino Greenberg (F.M.D.G.) Music School.

This year, for the first time, the music school — which serves students of all ages with vision loss — is offering a five-week “Nutcracker” appreciation course to bring to life the holiday classic in a multisensory way. Led by Ms. Seham and Dalia Sakas, the music school’s director of music studies, the course provides background in the story, history and cultural context of “The Nutcracker” (presented a bit differently for children, teens and adults).

Each student also receives a package of “Nutcracker” artifacts: a pointe shoe, a candy cane, a long stretch of tulle (from which tutus are made), a story synopsis and glossary in large print or Braille, sheet music with sections of Tchaikovsky’s score, and, of course, a nutcracker.

Perhaps most importantly, the class allows students to imagine the ballet through movement — to experience aspects of the work through their own bodies.

“They can’t sit in the audience and see the snow, but they can be the snow,” Ms. Seham said in a phone interview. “For me this class is about being dance.”

While the course is new territory for the music school — a “beta tester” for teaching ballet appreciation, Ms. Sakas said — it also builds on existing programs. Founded in 1913 (and formerly part of the larger organization Lighthouse Guild), the school has a history of illuminating visual art through music. Since 1997, it has held an annual concert at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, pairing pieces from the museum’s collection with “music that enhances the spirit of the artwork,” Ms. Sakas said. In recent years, students have written poetry that informs the selection of music and art.

The “Nutcracker” course extends this idea to dance, opening up a fantastical world that students may know only by name. “Even though they can’t see, they’re aware that there is a ‘Mona Lisa,’ they’re aware that these paintings exist,” Ms. Sakas said, “so why shouldn’t they be aware of dance as well?”

Because of the coronavirus pandemic, the music school moved its classes online, a shift that has been limiting in some ways but also “allowed us to dream a little bit” and try new things, Ms. Sakas said. Before the pandemic, children and teens from the school met for weekly in-person classes with Ms. Seham and volunteer alumni from National Dance Institute, who served as movement partners, guiding and collaborating with the students through physical touch. (The program is one of many facilitated by the dance institute, which was founded by the New York City Ballet star Jacques d’Amboise in 1976 to make dance more widely accessible to children.)

“When we were able to meet in person, tactile teaching was a really important element,” Ms. Seham said. “Obviously online we can’t do that, so we’re left with audio description” — describing the steps in clear, direct detail — “and finding that we can do it, it’s just a little bit slower.”

To acquaint students with the traditional music and story of “The Nutcracker,” Ms. Sakas and Ms. Seham have been sharing excerpts from a 1993 video recording of the standard-bearer: George Balanchine’s 1954 version for New York City Ballet, in which a young girl, Marie, journeys with the Nutcracker Prince to the Kingdom of the Sugarplum Fairy (the Land of Sweets).

But Ms. Seham said she also wants students to know about more contemporary takes on the classic — with varied characters, settings, music and styles of dance — and to envision their own. She has introduced them, for instance, to Donald Byrd’s 1996 “Harlem Nutcracker,” featuring jazz arrangements of Tchaikovsky by Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn. Students are asked to consider: “What would your ‘Nutcracker’ be? What would your magical journey be?” she said. “And how would that encompass what’s happening now and who you are?”

Those questions reflect Ms. Seham’s general approach to teaching at the music school, where she often connects dance with themes of social justice. Many of her students, she said, are children of color who confront multiple forms of discrimination in their daily lives. “When we talk about systemic racism and lack of access and lack of inclusion, they’re in the middle of it,” she said. “And so I want through the arts for them to be able to express themselves and show themselves.”

For the “Nutcracker” course, Ms. Seham has been teaching some basic ballet steps, while also leaving room for personal interpretation. “How you interpret it, how you feel the rise and fall of it, that’s up to you,” she told a group of students, ages 12 to 17, referring to the back-side-side footwork of a pas de bourrée, a structured preface to “freestyle snow.” “You can’t really mess up,” she added.

In the absence of physical touch as a teaching tool, the items in the “Nutcracker” package offer a different kind of tactile experience. Daniel Gillen, 26, a pianist and longtime student at the music school, said the texture of the tulle surprised him. During the adult class, he danced with the wafting fabric wrapped around his waist. “I didn’t think that it would be so porous,” he said in a phone interview. “Because all the air gets through, it almost becomes lighter than air.”

Opening the package, some students encountered a pointe shoe for the first time. (The shoes were collected by Daniel Ulbricht, a New York City Ballet principal, and are signed by members of the company who wore them.)

“Honestly, I’d never seen or heard of one,” Matthew Herrera, 12, said by phone. “It’s cool to see what real professionals wear.”

Matthew, who is visually impaired and has taken Ms. Seham’s classes for six years, said that as a musician who studies piano and voice, improvising is one of his strengths — and the same goes for dance. While dancing like snow, he said, he tried to think “about how it moves in the wind.”

“I feel like everyone, once in a while at least, should kind of just let themselves go, especially through art, dance included,” he said. “It’s fun to do it. It’s a beautiful thing.”





No.12 article:
Do We Need Help Brokering a Trump-Biden Unity Government?

An absurd political moment calls for an absurd political solution.

It’s been four weeks since Joe Biden was declared the winner of a hard-fought election. The votes have been counted in Georgia. Three times. Yet the incumbent refuses to admit defeat and released a 46-minute video alleging “massive fraud.” He’s made it clear that he’s not going to go quietly. So I’m sure you’re all wondering what I’ve been wondering: When is the international community going to step in and resolve this crisis?

Sure, Joe Biden won both the Electoral College and the popular vote. But the president refuses to give up. He’s got some militias in the north and the south solidly behind him, along with large sections of the country. You know what that means. Conditions are ripe for the secretary of state of some foreign country to parachute in and broker a power-sharing deal, as John Kerry did in Afghanistan in 2014. Maybe Trump could serve as chief executive officer of a unity government. Or he could be put in charge of national reconciliation. If that doesn’t work, maybe it’s time for a loya jirga.

Perhaps some Middle Eastern lawmaker out there is already hard at work on a proposal for our political salvation, based on partitioning our country into semiautonomous ethno-states, just like Mr. Biden’s plan for Iraq. But I don’t think so. Aside from a few individual foreign officials expressing sadness or scorn, there’s been mostly a deafening (and awkward) silence from the rest of the world in our hour of need.

Where are the threats of sanctions unless the president respects the results of the election? Where are the stern warnings that the recommendations of international election observers must be implemented? If Mr. Trump barricades himself in the White House, like the Philippine leader Ferdinand Marcos did in 1986, who is going to play the role of Paul Laxalt and advise him that “the time has come”?

“If the United States were a regular country, Joe Biden would be getting massive pressure right now from major powers to update and upgrade the antiquated American electoral system,” Dov H. Levin, assistant professor of international relations at the University of Hong Kong, told me. “There would be hundreds of electoral experts descending to tell the U.S. how to do this. They could require, for example, that the U.S. set up an independent election committee to be in charge of determining who won instead of Fox News and CNN.”

We are not a regular country. We are an exceptional one, so much so that we participate regularly in everybody else’s elections. One out of every 11 elections around the world between 1946 and 2000 featured some sort of U.S. intervention, according to Dr. Levin’s new book, “Meddling in the Ballot Box.” That made me feel all the more neglected. We invaded Iraq to free them from a despot. We helped redesign Kenya’s entire electoral system after its disputed election. Isn’t it time they returned the favor? After all we have done for democracy everywhere, how could the world abandon us now?

Caroline Hartzell, chairwoman of political science department of Gettysburg College, who is an expert on power-sharing agreements, said Americans could take some pointers from other countries that managed to evict unwanted leaders. Some countries entice them into stepping down by promising them fancy titles or symbolic cabinet posts. Others let them leave family members in positions of power. In Nicaragua in 1990, President Daniel Ortega left power after defeat at the ballot box — and after a deal left his brother in charge of the military. That’s a little bit like Trump vacating the White House but leaving Javanka in charge of the State Department or Rudy Giuliani responsible for mowing the grass.

Dr. Hartzell convinced me that we might get by without the African Union or the Organization of American States swooping in to rescue us.

“Thus far, with no thanks to the Republicans in Congress, at the state level, the system is working,” she said. “Even [Attorney General William] Barr finally said there’s no evidence of things going awry.”

But she admitted that it might be a little awkward in the future when, say, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tries to chide another country’s leaders for “election irregularities” (as he did to Tanzania last month) after working for a man who declared himself the winner of the election with millions of votes left uncounted.

What if the ranks of our local election officials looked more like Monica Palmer and William Hartmann, the G.O.P. canvassers who tried to stop the certification of votes from Detroit, than like Gabriel Sterling, the G.O.P. official in Georgia who passionately demanded that the president “stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence”? What then?

Could the world dislodge an American dictator, if it ever came to that? Would France swoop in and spirit him away, as they helped send Laurent Gbagbo to face criminal charges outside of Ivory Coast? Would Spain or the Seychelles make a tempting offer of luxurious exile, like American officials offered Haiti’s leaders in 1994? Would Sudan-born telecommunications billionaire Mo Ibrahim set up a prestigious fellowship for American presidents who peacefully give up power? Would someone just offer Mr. Trump a pile of money to leave? Bill Maher already tried that. It didn’t work.

The reality is that if Donald Trump really did refuse to leave power, there isn’t a whole lot the world could do about it. And Mr. Trump knows that.

“The realist in me says there are no tools that could be used in the U.S.” to pressure an American president to abide by the results of an election, said Daniela Donno, the author of “Defending Democratic Norms: International Actors and the Politics Of Electoral Misconduct.”

Most countries that get rescued from their aspiring despots are poor and weak, easily swayed by the threat of withholding aid or loan guarantees or foreign investment.

“The reason it works in other countries has to do with economic vulnerability that’s just not present in this instance,” Dr. Donno told me. “If the election had been closer than it was, Trump might be making a play for this. There would be a lot of diplomatic pressure and symbolic moves. But I don’t see the E.U. or France or Germany wielding any kind of major economic stick or carrots.”

In other words: The world’s not going to save us, America. So we damn well better save ourselves.





No.13 article:
How Black People Learned Not to Trust

Concerns about vaccination are unfortunate, but they have historical roots.

It would appear that the people in America hit hardest by Covid-19 — Black people — are also the group most leery about the prospects of a vaccine.

As a Pew Research report published last week pointed out: “Black Americans are especially likely to say they know someone who has been hospitalized or died as a result of having the coronavirus: 71 percent say this, compared with smaller shares of Hispanic (61 percent), White (49 percent) and Asian-American (48 percent) adults.”

But that same report contained the following: “Black Americans continue to stand out as less inclined to get vaccinated than other racial and ethnic groups: 42 percent would do so, compared with 63 percent of Hispanic and 61 percent of white adults.”

The unfortunate American fact is that Black people in this country have been well-trained, over centuries, to distrust both the government and the medical establishment on the issue of health care.

In the mid-1800s a man in Alabama named James Marion Sims gained national renown as a doctor after performing medical experiments on enslaved women, who by definition of their position in society could not provide informed consent.

He performed scores of experimental operations on one woman alone, an enslaved woman named Anarcha, before perfecting his technique.

Not only that, he operated on these women without anesthesia, in part because he didn’t believe that Black women experienced pain in the same way that white women did, a dangerous and false sensibility whose remnants linger to this day.

When he finally got his experiments to be successful, he began to use them on white women, but he would begin to use anesthesia for those women.

As medical writer Durrenda Ojanuga wrote in the Journal of Medical Ethics in 1993: “Many white women came to Sims for treatment of vesicovaginal fistula after the successful operation on Anarcha. However, none of them, due to the pain, were able to endure a single operation.”

Sims would go on to become known as the Father of Gynecology, even though, as one researcher put it:

“Sims failed utterly to recognize his patients as autonomous persons and his own personal drive for success cannot be minimized, especially as a balance to the enormous amount of praise accorded Sims for his work and for subsequent applications of the technique developed in Montgomery and elsewhere.”

After the Civil War and the freeing of the enslaved, the limited and fragile infrastructure for Black people in this country collapsed and an epidemic of disease flourished.

Many formerly enslaved people were estranged from the small gardens they used to grow things for home remedies. The larger plantation that had sick houses saw operations cease.

White doctors refused to see Black people and white hospitals refused to admit them. Furthermore, federal, state and local governments squabbled over whose responsibility it was to provide health care for the newly freed men and women, with no entity truly wanting to assume that responsibility.

Because of all of this, Jim Downs, a professor at Gettysburg College, estimates that at least one quarter of all former slaves got sick or died between 1862 and 1870.

For nearly half of the 20th century, women — often Black — were forcibly sterilized, often without their knowledge. As The Intercept reported in September, “Between 1930 to 1970, 65 percent of the 7,600-plus sterilizations ordered by the state of North Carolina were carried out on Black women.”

As Ms. Magazine pointed out in 2011:

“Some women were sterilized during cesarean sections and never told; others were threatened with termination of welfare benefits or denial of medical care if they didn’t ‘consent’ to the procedure; others received unnecessary hysterectomies at teaching hospitals as practice for medical residents. In the South it was such a widespread practice that it had a euphemism: a ‘Mississippi appendectomy.’”

Even famed Mississippi civil rights heroine Fannie Lou Hamer was a victim of forced sterilization. As PBS has pointed out, “Hamer’s own pregnancies had all failed, and she was sterilized without her knowledge or consent in 1961. She was given a hysterectomy while in the hospital for minor surgery.” Hamer would later say, “[In] the North Sunflower County Hospital, I would say about six out of the 10 Negro women that go to the hospital are sterilized with the tubes tied.”

Furthermore, as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention explains: “In 1932, the Public Health Service, working with the Tuskegee Institute, began a study to record the natural history of syphilis in hopes of justifying treatment programs for blacks. It was called the ‘Tuskegee Study of Untreated Syphilis in the Negro Male.’ ”

Hundreds of Black men were told they were being treated for syphilis, but they were not. They were being observed to see how the disease would progress. The men suffered under this experiment for 40 years.

I hope that America can overcome Black people’s trepidations about this vaccine, but it is impossible to say that that trepidation doesn’t have historical merit.





No.14 article:
Pamela Tiffin, Movie Star Who Shone Brightly but Briefly, Dies at 78

Billy Wilder called her “the greatest film discovery since Audrey Hepburn,” and she made an immediate splash in two 1961 movies, when she was only 19.

Pamela Tiffin, the bouffant-haired brunette model turned actress who leapt to movie stardom at 19 in a Tennessee Williams drama and a Billy Wilder comedy, then ran away to make Italian movies and retired from acting before her 32nd birthday, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 78.

The death was announced in a family statement to The Hollywood Reporter.

Ms. Tiffin began her Hollywood movie career in two very different films. In “Summer and Smoke” (1961), based on the Williams play about a spinster (Geraldine Page) and her love for a local doctor (Laurence Harvey), she played the innocent and much younger woman who steals him away.

That same year she starred as  the perky daughter of a Coca-Cola executive in Mr. Wilder’s political comedy “One, Two, Three.” Her character travels to Berlin and marries a sexy young Communist (Horst Buchholz) — very much against the wishes of her corporate watchdog (James Cagney).

But not long after making a 1965 film with Marcello Mastroianni, she largely abandoned Hollywood to star in Italian films. And in 1974, when she was barely in her 30s, she retired from acting altogether. That was not what movie-industry experts had predicted.

Interviewed by The Daily News of New York in December 1961, Mr. Wilder called her “the greatest film discovery since Audrey Hepburn.” In the same article, Ms. Tiffin told the journalist Joe Hyams why she was beginning to prefer acting to her old career.

“A model sells herself, but an actress sells the characters she plays,” she said. “I was pretty bored with myself and my face and body.”

Pamela Tiffin Wonso was born on Oct. 13, 1942, in Oklahoma City, the daughter of Stanley Wonso, an architect, and Grace Irene (Tiffin) Wonso. She grew up in Oak Lawn, Ill., a Chicago suburb, and began modeling — mostly in print advertisements and runway shows — when she was 13.

Three years later, she and her mother moved to New York City, where Pamela attended Hunter College between modeling assignments. There are two versions of her discovery by Hollywood, and both appear to be true.

On a vacation trip to Los Angeles, she was spotted having lunch with a friend in the Paramount Studios commissary and was soon meeting with the producer Hal Wallis. Mr. Wallis was almost finished casting his newest project, “Summer and Smoke.”

But Mr. Wilder, with “One, Two, Three” coming up on his calendar, was already searching for her. He’d seen a lingerie ad in The New York Times Magazine; the photographer was Bert Stern, and the model, wearing only a slip, turned out to be Ms. Tiffin. In a 1962 photo essay in Esquire magazine, Mr. Stern recalled the shoot and called her “the movies’ hottest new female star.”

After her two star-making film roles, Ms. Tiffin’s third film was “State Fair” (1962), a remake of the 1945 Rodgers and Hammerstein movie musical (her singing voice was dubbed), as a farmer’s enthusiastic teenage daughter looking for romance between the pie-baking contests and the livestock shows.

Ms. Tiffin made two dozen films in the 1960s and the first half of the ’70s. She remained visible and marketable — playing a novice flight attendant in the romantic comedy “Come Fly With Me” (1963) and a rich man’s flirtatious daughter in “Harper” (1966), a mystery starring Paul Newman.

At the same time, she was becoming known for movies aimed at teenage audiences, including “For Those Who Think Young” and “The Lively Set,” both released in 1964. James Darren was her co-star in both.

Her sole appearance on Broadway was in a revival of the Kaufman and Ferber comedy “Dinner at Eight” (1966). She played Kitty Packard, the flashy and most obviously out-of-place dinner guest, played by Jean Harlow in the 1933 film.

The year before, she had been cast as Mastroianni’s wife in “Oggi, Domani, Dopodomani” (1965), a comedy about a man trying to sell his wife to a harem. After great reluctance and considerable argument, she agreed to become blond for the role.

She found that she liked the new look, and she kept it as she began making films in Italy. She appeared in at least a dozen, including “The Archangel” (1969), a crime comedy with Vittorio Gassman, and “The Fifth Cord” (1971), a crime thriller with Franco Nero. After a decade and a half in retirement she made her final screen appearance in “Quattro Storie di Donne” (1989), an Italian mini-series.

The official story was that she gave up acting to raise a family, but Ms. Tiffin told Tullio Kezich, the author of “Cinema Dolce,” that she really made the decision because Italian films were becoming so erotic. Every job interview, she said, seemed to degenerate into a discussion of whether she would appear nude or at least partly nude onscreen. Luckily, she had saved her money and knew she could survive.

Her last American film had been “Viva Max” (1969), a comedy about a 20th-century Mexican general who wants to recapture the Alamo. Parts of it were filmed in Rome, for her convenience.

In 1962, Ms. Tiffin married Clay Felker, then an editor at Esquire magazine. A year later he became the founding editor of New York, The Herald Tribune’s Sunday supplement, which later became New York magazine. He edited the magazine until 1977, while the marriage, not as long-lived, ended in divorce in 1969, after a long separation.

“We still love each other,” Ms. Tiffin told Earl Wilson, the syndicated columnist. “We still have dinner. But life, it seems, is not a Doris Day movie.”

In her memoir, “Daring: My Passages” (2014), the author Gail Sheehy, who became Mr. Felker’s next wife, reprinted a particularly civilized post-separation note from Ms. Tiffin.

“I hear that you have stopped seeing Gail Sheehy,” she wrote. “Don’t be foolish. She is a woman of fine character and great talent. Be good to her.”

In 1974, Ms. Tiffin married Edmondo Danon, an Italian philosopher and professor who is the son of the film producer and screenwriter Marcello Danon. He survives her, as do two daughters, Echo Danon and Aurora Danon.

Ms. Tiffin insisted that she had never been interested in an acting career. It took an East Coast filmmaker multiple tries to persuade her to play a miller’s daughter in a 1960 short about Colonial Williamsburg — her real screen debut. She did study acting, with Stella Adler, but only after her film career had begun.

There was one aversion she never got over, though. Acting for the small screen was not for her, according to Tom Lisanti’s book “Pamela Tiffin: Hollywood to Rome, 1961-1974” (2015). After filming an episode of “The Fugitive” in 1963, she said: “I’m slow in life. I take time to read. I love long lunches” — which led her to conclude, “I think I’m too slow for television.”





No.15 article:
5 Highlights of New York Mayor’s Race, as Spike Lee Weighs In

Ray McGuire grabbed attention with a campaign launch video, as New Yorkers get to know the candidates who have not run for office before.

With more than a dozen candidates running for mayor of New York City, it can be difficult to stand out. A powerful ad can help — especially if it features Spike Lee.

Raymond J. McGuire, a Black business executive who is trying to position himself as the best candidate to help the city recover from the pandemic, released a campaign video last week that introduced him and his life story to voters.

Mr. McGuire’s campaign launch also included his first extended interviews as a candidate, a rite of passage that can be difficult for those who have never run for office. Another first-time candidate, Maya Wiley, a former MSNBC analyst, grappled with the thorny issue of “defunding the police” in an interview last week.

All the candidates are trying to find ways to grab voters’ attention and to raise money ahead of the June 22 primary. Dianne Morales, a former nonprofit executive who is also making her first run for office, has been raising money over criticism of an article by The New York Times that mentioned her comments about enjoying edible marijuana.

Here are five highlights from last week:

The 2020 documentary, “Yusuf Hawkins: Storm Over Brooklyn,” about the racially motivated murder of a Black teenager in 1989, has placed Muta’Ali Muhammad on many lists of up-and-coming filmmakers.

Mr. Muhammad was enlisted to direct Mr. McGuire’s campaign launch video, and he approached it as a mini-documentary. Mr. McGuire and his wife, Crystal McCrary McGuire, a lawyer and filmmaker who is the executive producer of the ad, reached out to Mr. Lee and the jazz musician Wynton Marsalis for help.

The video shows Mr. McGuire, who is wearing a pair of black and red Air Jordan 11 Retro sneakers and exercise gear, jogging through an empty Times Square. Mr. Lee narrates over Mr. Marsalis’s jazz compositions as the toll of the coronavirus pandemic unfolds — a row of refrigerated morgues and shuttered businesses.

“It’s crazy out here. Bananas,” Mr. Lee said in one of the ad-libs he added to the script. “People are asking, ‘Is this it? Is New York over?’”

Mr. McGuire is introduced as the man who can fix it before the video delves into his upbringing in Dayton, Ohio, by a single mother who emphasized the importance of education.

“I approached it directing-wise from a documentary standpoint, a short-form documentary,” Mr. Muhammad said in an interview. “We have a lot of family photos. It gives people a chance to see him out and about, his style and approach for taking care of us New Yorkers.”

Mark Skidmore, chief executive of Assemble the Agency, wrote the jogging script after rejecting the idea of showing him on a basketball court, one of his favorite activities. The crew estimated that Mr. McGuire ran four or five miles during one day of shooting.

“He’s 63, but he’s in far better shape than I am,” Mr. Skidmore said. “We wanted to highlight and show that this is a guy who has the energy to run the city.”

Hours after releasing the video, Mr. McGuire stepped into the rugged New York City media landscape with interviews on WNYC radio with Brian Lehrer and on NY1 with Errol Louis.

Mr. Lehrer asked whether his Wall Street background could alienate voters.

“I would encourage people to look at the totality of my lived experiences,” said Mr. McGuire, who cited his rise from humble beginnings.

A caller asked how Mr. McGuire would address climate change, and he talked about the paper mill that he said spewed fumes near the home he grew up in.

Mr. McGuire took centrist positions on taxing the wealthy and whether landlords should forgive or reduce rent for small businesses. Mr. McGuire said that while wealthy people like him should pay more in taxes, that would not be enough to solve the city’s financial crisis.

“We simply can’t tax our way out of this,” he told Mr. Louis. “We need to grow our way out of this.”

Mr. McGuire did not answer a question about whether he would keep Dermot F. Shea, the city’s police commissioner, and he blamed being busy with family and work for his failure to vote in both the primary and general elections during the last three mayoral contests.

Ms. Wiley has made a name for herself as a progressive expert on criminal justice issues and served from 2016 to 2017 as the chairwoman of the city’s police oversight agency.

But she has been careful not to fully embrace the phrase “defund the police.” The movement is popular among protesters, but could be viewed as too liberal among moderate voters.

In an interview on MSNBC, Ms. Wiley was asked about President Obama’s recent comments that “defund the police” was a “snappy slogan” that could alienate “a big audience.” She said Democrats should focus on specific policies to improve policing and public safety.

“We should not get caught up in slogans — we should get caught up in solutions,” she said last week.

When Ms. Wiley was asked directly if she wants to “defund the police” in an interview with Mr. Lehrer, she was cautious with her words.

“I subscribe to the principles of what so many demonstrators, me among them, were marching for this summer,” she said. “And that is that we have to invest in our communities that are being over-policed.”

When Ms. Morales professed her love for edible marijuana at the first candidate forum in October, it was one of the most memorable quotes of the night.

All of the candidates were asked if they smoked marijuana, and few admitted to using it. Ms. Morales’s answer — “I prefer edibles.” — seemed human and refreshingly candid.

The answers were also illuminating because New York State is likely to legalize marijuana soon, and the next mayor could shape the city’s approach.

But Ms. Morales said that the Times’ decision to include her comment about edible marijuana in an interactive slide show about the candidates was racist and an “attempt to summarily dismiss me.”

There is more to her story, she said in a series of Twitter messages and an email urging her supporters to donate money. She is an Afro-Latina single mother who led an anti-poverty nonprofit. She earned graduate degrees from Harvard University and Columbia University. She is running on progressive policies like defunding the police, desegregating schools and providing New Yorkers a guaranteed minimum income.

Her campaign launch video focused on the obstacles she faced as a woman of color. “When I think back to the moments in my lifetime that may have led me here, I think of the city systems that failed my family,” she said.

Another candidate jumped in the race last week: Isaac Wright Jr., a lawyer who was wrongfully convicted decades ago, and helped other inmates with their cases.

The television show “For Life” on ABC is based on Mr. Wright’s story, and he is a producer on the show, along with the rapper 50 Cent.

His Hollywood connections landed him a feature on People magazine’s website about his bid for mayor. Mr. Wright said he wants to “address the racial, economic, environmental, and educational injustices that plague our city’s institutions.”

The field of candidates could continue to grow. Others who are rumored to be considering a run: Andrew Yang, the former tech executive and presidential candidate; Christine Quinn, the former City Council speaker; and Representative Max Rose from Staten Island, who lost his seat in November’s election.





No.16 article:
Romania’s Leader Is Tested by a Close Election

Prime Minister Ludovic Orban will need to maintain his alliance with a smaller party to stay in power after a surprisingly tight race.

BUCHAREST, Romania — Amid record low turnout, voters in Romania on Sunday dealt a setback to the country’s prime minister, Ludovic Orban, in a surprisingly tight race that threatened his grip on power.

Mr. Orban claimed victory Sunday evening, even though his center-left National Liberal Party was running a close second to its main rival, the Social Democratic Party, in early results.

Mr. Orban’s party is expecting that an alliance with a smaller party will help keep it in power. Mr. Orban has pledged to continue efforts to modernize the country, one of the European Union’s poorest member states, while also keeping Romania on a pro-European path.

But a strong showing by the Social Democratic Party, which has been accused of a host of political scandals in recent years, and the potential arrival in Parliament of a new nationalist party soured the mood for many Romanians. They had been hoping for a clearer sign that the country was putting the past behind it.

The elections were never likely to give a strong majority to any single party.

But the outcome appears to allow a working coalition between two center-right parties: Mr. Orban’s National Liberal Party and an alliance known as U.S.R.-PLUS, which appeared set to come in a strong third. Still, they will most likely need to bring in additional coalition partners to stay in power.

Hours before polls closed, Mr. Orban urged Romanians to go out to vote.

“Four years ago, low turnout led to a Parliament lacking legitimacy, a Parliament which undermined the rule of law and democratic institutions,” he wrote on his Facebook page.

But his appeals appeared to fall flat. Turnout was less than 32 percent of eligible voters, the lowest in the country since the fall of Communism over three decades ago.

Four years ago, after the Social Democrats took office, Romania was convulsed by a series of political scandals.

Vast protests erupted in February 2017 over an emergency decree that effectively decriminalized low-level corruption, and demonstrators denounced longstanding graft in the country. The firing of Laura Codruta Kovesi, the head of Romania’s anticorruption agency, spurred more protests a year later.

For a while, it had looked as if Romania was following the path of Poland and Hungary and pursuing a more illiberal form of democracy. But in 2019, the Social Democrats’ powerful leader, Liviu Dragnea, was jailed for abuse of office, and the government was toppled after a no-confidence vote in October that year.

In November 2019, President Klaus Iohannis, previously the leader of the National Liberal Party, won a handy victory in his re-election campaign, a further repudiation of the deposed Social Democrats .

In the months leading up to the current election, polls had tightened, with the National Liberal Party experiencing a fall in support amid criticism of its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Romania, which has imposed relatively strict lockdown measures, has registered more than 500,000 confirmed cases of the virus, with more than 12,000 deaths.

Sorin Ionita, a political analyst at the Bucharest-based research group Expert Forum, said that the Social Democrats’ approach under Mr. Dragnea had an obvious impact on last year’s presidential election but that “low turnout and the party getting rid of the toxic team around Dragnea” gave the party a stronger public image.

In a statement after polls had closed, Mr. Orban said that his party considered itself to be “both the moral winner and the winner at the end of the counting process,” and that it would be able to quickly form a parliamentary majority.

Romania has experienced a conveyor belt of governments and cabinets in recent years, with five prime ministers in five years. Mr. Orban’s minority administration lost a no-confidence vote this year, but ultimately remained in power to avoid political uncertainty in the face of the pandemic.

While the closeness of the election could have an impact on the next government, experts predict that the race might be quickly forgotten.

“Once they are in and form a coalition, it will be very stable for the next four years,” said Mr. Ionita.





No.17 article:
After Centuries of Obscurity, Wilmington Is Having a Moment

Joe Biden’s hometown, known chiefly for its dull, corporate vibe, has become the center of the political universe. Residents are thrilled.

WILMINGTON, Del. — The hometown of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has long wrestled with its image problem. Namely, it does not have one.

If people could find Wilmington on a map — and many couldn’t — they thought of it as a convenient pit stop along the Northeast Corridor, which was dominated by far larger, more important, more colorful places. It is a city lacking a well-known culinary dish, historical event, professional sports team or even a particular catchphrase.  

And yet, against dubious odds not unlike those that Mr. Biden overcame in reaching the presidency after three tries, Wilmington appears determined to ride the Biden wave to long-elusive glory.

“Usually, nobody pays attention to us, and now we are on the news every night!” exclaimed Karen Kegelman of the Delaware Historical Society, whose first memorable encounter with Mr. Biden dates back to when he spoke at her high school graduation. She is 53.

The president-elect has transformed the city into a federal-government-in-waiting. He delivers speeches and television interviews from the Queen, a restored theater downtown. His motorcade, 20 vehicles long, regularly brings traffic to a screeching halt, and gawking drivers appear delighted. Cabinet nominees swan through the opulent lobby of the Hotel Du Pont. Suddenly, all of Wilmington is bathing in the dizzying warmth of an unexpected spotlight.

“It creates a little mystique about the city,” Mayor Michael S. Purzycki said. “It creates great curiosity about the city — people coming by all the time wanting to know what is going on, tell me about your city.”

Mr. Purzycki harbors no illusions regarding the colorless reputation of his town: “Wilmington has always been on I-95 between Washington, Philly and New York, you know.” He compared its famously dull, corporate vibe to the unvarying “Mad Men” uniform worn by the legions of lawyers and chemical engineers who once populated its downtown: “a white shirt, a sincere tie and 12-pound wingtips.”

“It was not a creative culture,” he said. “It was pretty predictable, stay within the guard rails.”

The main mystery about the place seems to be identifying something, anything, that distinctly says “Wilmington.”

Ask residents to name a unique feature and the universal response is a long pause.

“It’s intimate,” some will eventually say. That’s a euphemism for small. The population hit a high mark of almost 90,000 circa 1940 and is now at around 72,000.

Others will point you to the Court of Chancery. It is not quite the Statue of Liberty or the Grand Canyon, but it is a singular institution in the United States.

Corporate titans use the specialized court to wage legal Armageddon to control stock shares, but companies must be registered in Delaware to present a case. Nearly 1.5 million are, including household names like Coca-Cola and Geico.

When Walt Disney Co. shareholders balked at the $140 million severance package paid mostly in stock options to Michael Ovitz in 1996 after he was dismissed as president of the company, for example, they tried to claw them back in chancery court and lost.

The court has been around since 1792, but try finding it. There is not even a sign for it outside the 12-story, steel and glass tower on North King Street that it shares with other courts.

The low profile belies the riches it generates. Last year, taxes and fees for corporate registrations amounted to $1.45 billion, roughly 30 percent of the state’s operating budget, said Jonathan Starkey, spokesman for Gov. John Carney.

There is a dark side, too. Secrecy laws allow foreign kleptocrats and other nefarious types to stash ill-gotten gains anonymously, though reform efforts are underway.

Weighty matters, but not the stuff of tourist stampedes. People thinking of tax or financial havens tend to picture Monaco or Panama, while Wilmington lacks either super yachts or a signature hat.

Still, residents point to places like the booming Riverfront neighborhood, reclaimed from industrial wasteland, as well as new restaurants and galleries downtown to indicate that Wilmington is trying to change. “I wanted to bring some light and energy to Wilmington,” said Nataki Oliver, who opened a small gallery called The Sold Firm to feature Black artists and to offer painting classes for children.

Aside from corporations, two of the three “Cs” that constitute the city’s holy trinity — credit cards and chemicals — have faded somewhat.

Credit card companies rushed in, starting in the 1980s, after Delaware removed all caps on interest rates, as long as the firms based their operations locally. The volume of credit card bills means they have their own ZIP code, but mergers have diminished the number of institutions.

The third C is chemicals. E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, usually known as DuPont, began in 1802 by manufacturing gunpowder. DuPont and its fabulously wealthy owners dominated Wilmington for the next 200 years, creating products like nylon, Teflon and Kevlar.

Its 2017 merger with Dow Chemical Company largely ended that reign, even if the family and the company left traces everywhere. There is a duPont hospital, a du Pont high school, a Dupont street and a DuPont country club. The main area attractions include three former du Pont estates. (There are nearly as many spellings as there are du Pont institutions.) 

Mr. Biden announced that he would appoint a climate change “czar” in a speech delivered at the Delaware Museum of Natural History. It, too, was founded by a du Pont heir, an expert ornithologist who collected 66,000 birds and two million seashells. The founder does not get mentioned so much because in 1996 he shot dead an Olympic wrestling champion at a training camp that he had established on his estate. When the convicted murderer died in prison in 2010, he left the bulk of his estimated $200 million fortune to a Bulgarian wrestler.

There are other intriguing bits of Wilmington lore. Swedes founded the city in 1638, and they managed to invent the log cabin before the Dutch ran them off after 17 years. Bob Marley worked in a car plant and as a janitor in the Hotel Du Pont in the early 1970s.

Something grander or more famous always seems to overshadow hallmark Wilmington moments, however.

Rodney Square, the heart of downtown Wilmington, was named after a founding father who rode overnight to Philadelphia to cast a deciding vote for the Declaration of Independence. Yet the midnight ride of that founding father, Caesar Rodney, never got the same press as Paul Revere’s journey. (Wilmington also cannot decide when it happened. The plinth for the statue of the galloping Mr. Rodney bears two different dates: July 1-2, 1776, and July 3-4, 1776.)

Mr. Rodney also owned slaves, and during the protests that erupted last summer after the killing of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis, city officials whisked the statue off to New Jersey for safekeeping.

There has long been a thorny relationship between Wilmington’s mostly Black, impoverished center and its largely white, wealthy suburbs. Riots that erupted after the 1968 assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. devastated the downtown, and the nervous governor at the time set a nationwide record by deploying National Guard troops for nine months.

The scattered pieces of Wilmington’s past have never quite coalesced into a narrative whole, said David Walter, a freelance journalist who grew up here, missing “whatever that glue is.”

City officials make periodic stabs at creating the glue by rolling out new slogans. “A Place to Be Somebody” was around for years, replaced by “Wilmington, in the middle of it all.” The latest is “It’s Time,” but that tends to provoke the question “Time for what?” and the mood is more “It’s Biden.”

He is not exactly new. On the night that Mr. Biden won the presidency, people from Wilmington inundated their Facebook profiles with their Biden selfies.

“My friends not from Delaware were like ‘Oh my God! You met him?!” said Dr. Jennifer Horney, who arrived two years ago to establish the epidemiology program at the University of Delaware. “Everybody has met him.”

The inevitable flood tide of gimcrack Biden souvenirs has yet to start in earnest, but there are some. Scented candles named after Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris cost $22 apiece at a gift shop abutting the Queen theater. Hers smells like lotus blossoms, inspired by her name, whereas his exudes the aroma of one of his favorite beverages: orange Gatorade.

Mr. Biden trails only the du Ponts in getting his moniker slapped on things. The Amtrak station was named for him because he commuted by train to the U.S. Senate from Wilmington starting in 1973. The pool where he worked as a teenager bears his name.

The Biden Welcome Center is the highway rest stop located along the roughly 30 miles that Interstate 95 slices through Delaware, between Pennsylvania and Maryland.

William A. Sullivan, the chairman of the Greater Wilmington Convention and Visitors Bureau, dreams of installing a selfie-friendly Biden statue there to help entice more tourists off the freeway. “Maybe that will come next,” he said.





No.18 article:
They Offered Us Comfort and Normalcy. Now They Need Our Help.

The city’s mom-and-pop establishments need help now.

It’s never been easy to run a small business in New York City. The city’s entrepreneurs have long faced dizzying odds: high rents and high taxes, byzantine restrictions from City Hall and fierce competition from corporate big-box stores as well as the bodega next door.

And that was without the coronavirus pandemic.

Between March and July alone, more than 2,800 small businesses in New York permanently closed. By November, revenue from small business in the city had fallen by more than half since January. The Partnership for New York City, a business group, said New York’s 236,000 small businesses employ roughly 1.3 million people. The group has estimated that one-third of small businesses might never reopen. Though it’s a grim figure, roughly 20 percent of small businesses fail in their first year, even in a healthy economy, suggesting that a decline in new business creation may also be playing a role this year.

Across New York, the landscape of shuttered storefronts is gutting. Thousands of jobs have been lost, adding to the collective grief of a city where more than 24,000 people have died from Covid-19, and the lives of millions more have been upended.

Helping small businesses get back on their feet is essential work.

What would New York be without its bakeries and its bodegas? Its flower districts, and fish markets and shoe-repair shops? Its falafel stands and taco trucks, its tiny restaurants filling the streets with sweet aromas from every corner of the world? A recovery without small business is unimaginable.

The surest way to help these businesses survive right now is by giving them direct federal aid and access to inexpensive capital.

New York, like most state and local governments, doesn’t have those kinds of funds. But the city can step up now to help small businesses cut through onerous red tape to gain access to roughly $134 billion in untapped federal stimulus money. Ideally, that effort would begin with businesses owned by minorities, immigrants and women, which are already at a disadvantage in securing investment and are likelier to serve communities that have been hardest hit by the pandemic.

Comptroller Scott Stringer’s August report on small business recovery is filled with good ideas, like simplifying licensing requirements for such businesses by allowing owners to file paperwork with a single point of contact and making it easier to obtain liquor licenses. Mr. Stringer and others have encouraged the city to help small businesses establish an online presence to compete with large retailers like Amazon.

Some of those efforts are already underway. ShopIN.NYC, a Brooklyn start-up gaining popularity, is offering same-day delivery from scores of local retailers.

In September, the city teamed up with the Partnership for New York City, the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, borough chambers of commerce and other entities to start a support network to connect small business owners with vital resources like legal and accounting services.

To become a truly small-business-friendly city, though, New York will need to go big.

Rethinking the city’s approach to development, pandemic or not, may be a good place to begin. One way is to house small businesses alongside much larger ones, allowing the larger tenant to shoulder a greater burden of the ­­rent, much like market-rate tenants do in many affordable housing buildings. Essex Crossing, a mixed-use development on the Lower East Side, offers a glimpse at what that might look like. That development includes a Trader Joe’s grocery store, as well as a Target. But it offers lower rent to smaller businesses, and is also home to neighborhood joints like Veselka, the classic New York Ukrainian restaurant, and Tortilleria Nixtamal, a beloved Mexican restaurant originally from Queens.

But that’s just a first step to addressing New York’s notoriously high commercial rents. One thing the state can do is ban the common New York practice of requiring minimum rents for commercial mortgages, which keeps too many properties vacant even when an owner is willing to accept lower rents.

Another idea? Adopting government disincentives against keeping properties vacant for long periods of time. One bill, introduced by State Senator Brad Hoylman, would allow New York City to collect taxes on storefronts that have been vacant for at least six months. In some parts of the city, particularly outside of Manhattan, this may be more punitive than helpful. But in wealthier areas of the city where some owners are content to keep a storefront empty until they can get top dollar again, it may prove useful.

In the darkest days of the pandemic this year, it was New York’s small businesses — its coffee shops and restaurants, groceries and bakeries — that remained open, serving up comfort and normalcy to millions who sorely needed them. Now they need our help in return.





No.19 article:
A Polarizing Documentary Spurs Debate Over a Violent Time in Quebec

Fifty years after separatist violence prompted the government to send soldiers to Montreal, Quebec is grappling with how to remember the 1970 “October crisis.”

MONTREAL— Félix Rose was 7 years old when he realized that the gentle father he idolized had a secret past. “Your daddy killed someone,” his cousin told him during a family celebration, he recalled recently.

His father, Paul Rose had been a leader of a violent extremist group, the Front de Libération du Québec, or F.L.Q., that agitated for Quebec’s independence from Anglophone-dominated Canada. The elder Mr. Rose was convicted in 1971 of the group’s most notorious crime: the kidnapping and murder in October 1970 of a Quebec cabinet minister, Pierre Laporte. It was the first political assassination in Canada in more than a century.

Now, half a century later, the younger Mr. Rose, 33, has produced a documentary film about his family, “Les Rose,” that has been a surprise hit and sensation in Quebec, underlining how sensitive the events of that time remain, even decades later.

In making the film, Mr. Rose said, he was trying to understand what drove his father and uncle to violence. But some critics accused Mr. Rose of hagiography and historical revisionism, turning murderers into heroes.

“Every son wants to see their father as a hero, but ‘Les Rose’ is a whitewashing of history,” said Marc Cassivi, cultural commentator for La Presse, Canada’s leading French-language newspaper. “My fear is that young people will accept it as historic truth.”

From 1963 to 1970, the F.L.Q. unleashed more than 200 bombs and robberies, most of them in Montreal, including a bomb that tore through the Montreal Stock Exchange in 1969, injuring 27 people. At least nine people died in the group’s attacks, among them a 64-year-old secretary and a 15-year-old militant killed by his own explosive.

Violence escalated in October 1970, a period that became known as the “October crisis.” Days before it took Mr. Laporte hostage, the F.L.Q. kidnapped James Cross, a British diplomat, who was held for two months before being released.

Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau invoked the War Measures Act — the only time in Canadian history it was applied in peacetime. Armed soldiers patrolled the streets of Montreal, and hundreds of people were arrested without charges.

Le Devoir, a leading Francophone newspaper, said the film could allow “a whole generation to rediscover a part of its history,” while others lauded its lyrical evocation of a working-class Quebec family.

The debate over the film comes at a moment of cultural reckoning stirred up by the 50th anniversary of the October crisis. There are newly published memoirs by F.L.Q. militants, books, podcasts and heated television discussions.

And, at a time when Quebec’s independence movement is in abeyance, Mr. Cassivi, the cultural commentator, said some nationalists appeared drawn by the film’s romantic portrayal of the militants, eager to revive historical grievances and give their flagging cause a “spark.”

During the film’s Quebec City premiere, Catherine Dorion, a left-leaning member of Quebec’s National Assembly, raised her fist in the air in front of a poster of the film, mimicking a defiant gesture by Paul Rose in front of a Montreal courthouse in 1971.

Yves-François Blanchet, the leader of a Quebec nationalist party in Canada’s Parliament, called on Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to apologize formally for what he said was excessive use of force during the crisis by the elder Mr. Trudeau, his father.

Félix Rose said he had not wished to reopen old wounds with this film but to understand why his father, who was a teacher, and his uncle, a mechanic, were radicalized and took up arms. His father, sentenced to life in prison, served 12 years before being paroled in 1982, and his uncle Jacques, convicted of being an accomplice to the murder of Mr. Laporte, spent seven years in prison. Paul Rose died in 2013 at 69 of a stroke.

To make the movie, the filmmaker excavated old family film footage and interviewed his uncle, his aunts and his mother.

“I didn’t set out to make a film purporting to be the only truth, but to find my truth,” he said from a park near the home where he lives with his partner and young daughter. “Being the child of someone who committed a crime is like having a phantom that haunts you and I made this film to try to exorcise those demons.”

After his release from prison, the elder Mr. Rose rebuilt his life, working as a trade unionist and marrying Félix’s mother, Andrée Bergeron, a criminology student who was doing outreach at his prison. The October crisis was not brought up at family dinners.

But as the filmmaker grew older, he said, his desire for answers ate away at him. When his father fell ill, Félix, then in his 20s, finally confronted him. He said his father told him he had been a pacifist and had turned to violence after taking to the street was no longer an option.

“My father told me that kidnapping a man was a way to be heard because he no longer had a voice,” he said.

While researching his film, Mr. Rose said he had been struck by how generations of Québécois men in his family had been traumatized by their social exclusion in Ville Jacques-Cartier, a Montreal slum, while being subjugated by English-speaking bosses at work.

In one scene, Jacques Rose explains that his Anglophone manager chastised him after he hung a sign in French warning about safety hazards at his train repair plant.

But the film also glosses over the fact that by October 1970, Francophone Quebecers had attained new rights, including better access to education, during a period known as the Quiet Revolution.

“There is no statue of Paul Rose in a square in Quebec, no street or school in his name,” said Louise Harel, a former interim leader of the Parti Québécois, a pro-independence party that led Quebec from 1976 to 1985 and passed laws protecting the French language. The film ignored that hard-won rights had been achieved through the ballot box rather than by blood, she said.

“Québécois do not support violence,” she said.

Others have criticized Félix Rose as having failed to hold his father and uncle accountable for their crimes.

The film does not adequately challenge Jacques Rose’s contention that the F.L.Q. “never wanted to kill anyone,” even though the group claimed to have executed Mr. Laporte when the government refused to meet its demands.

Nor does it directly confront Jacques Rose about his role in killing Mr. Laporte, whose body was left in a car’s trunk near Montreal’s airport.

The film posits that Mr. Laporte was seriously injured when he tried to escape. A coroner’s report showed that he was strangled.

Mr. Rose said that his father and uncle had vowed a pact of collective responsibility for the killing, and that pressing his uncle could have silenced him.

He also unequivocally condemned the killing, though he said he believes it was “an accident.” He said his father was absent during the act but accepted responsibility for it.

Geoff Turner, the host of a recent podcast about the October crisis, said the memory of those events underlined the vast chasm that remained between Quebec and the rest of the country.

“My generation grew up with an ideal of a harmonious, bilingual Canada and the October crisis gets little consideration outside of Quebec,” he said. “But in Quebec the feelings about it remain raw.”





No.20 article:
Some Colleges Plan to Bring Back More Students in the Spring

College officials say they have learned important lessons about managing the pandemic on their campuses. Not everyone is so confident.

It was a tough fall semester for many American colleges and universities, with declining enrollment, canceled classes and sporting events, widespread Zoom fatigue and enough coronavirus-infected students nationwide to fill three and a half Rose Bowls.

But many university officials say that lessons from the fall will allow them to do something many experts considered unthinkable a few months ago: bring even more students back onto campus in January and February, when classes resume for the spring.

The University of California, San Diego, for instance, is making room for more than 11,000 students in campus housing — about 1,000 more than it housed in the fall. The University of Florida is planning to offer more face-to-face classes than it did before the pandemic. And Princeton University, which let only a few hundred students live on campus last semester, has offered space to thousands of undergraduates.

The determination to bring back more students, even as the pandemic is surging in many states, partly reflects the financial imperative to have more students paying room and board, as well as the desire to provide something resembling a college experience.

But there is also an emerging confidence among at least some college administrators that they have learned much about managing the pandemic on their campuses. Test aggressively. Contact trace assiduously. Maintain mask rules and social distancing. And don’t underestimate students’ willingness to obey restrictions.

“What makes me optimistic is we had the virus in our community, and each time we did, we were able to stop transmissions dead,” said David Greene, president of Colby College in Maine, which brought its whole student body back in the fall using aggressive health measures, and plans to do the same again next semester.

Experts said a major test of whether colleges learned the right lessons would come in January and February, when students travel back to school from home.

“The disease is a lot more widespread now than it was” in the fall, said Dr. Tom Frieden, who ran the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention during the Obama Administration and is now president of a global health initiative to prevent heart disease and epidemics. “When people travel, the virus travels.”

Since the start of the pandemic, campuses have weighed the financial and social benefits of business as usual against the terrifying risk of Covid-19. Young people are statistically less likely than older adults to become severely ill or die from the infection, but they have turned college towns into Covid-19 hot spots. Schools and the communities around them have also enforced public health rules inconsistently.

Many institutions are choosing not to bring back more students, planning instead to hunker down over the winter as infections mount and the nation awaits a vaccine. The University of Michigan, which spent a rocky fall trying to keep thousands of students on campus, has told most of its students to stay home and study remotely next semester. The California State University’s 23 campuses have concluded that sticking with remote classes is the safest approach for the spring.

But other schools, and some experts, are asking: Safe compared with what?

“Having students return to campus to live under the imperfect supervision of college administrators is risky,” said A. David Paltiel, a professor of health policy and management at the Yale School of Public Health. “But having students stay home to live under the imperfect supervision of their parents and families is also risky.”

That argument has been particularly compelling for schools that managed the fall with relatively minimal infections, and the schools that watched and learned from them. Cornell University expects about 19,500 students will be living on or around its Ithaca, N.Y., campus next semester, more than 80 percent of enrollment and about 1,500 more students than were there during the fall.

Brown will roughly triple, and Harvard will about double, the number of students in campus housing in the new year. Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., will add about 100 students to the approximately 1,200 who were living on campus in the fall. It also plans to re-establish its study abroad programs, according to a school spokesman.

Students have also proved more conscientious than the public may think, administrators said. The culture of fraternities, big sports and big parties remains a challenge, but at many schools, students themselves reported the majority of health violations.

“When this started the premise was that students would not and could not behave responsibly,” said Michael Kotlikoff, Cornell University’s provost. “I think we’ve proven that this is not so.”

Many university officials say they are also increasingly confident that the virus is not being transmitted in classrooms, where professors are enforcing mask wearing and social distancing rules.

“We have not had a single case that we can trace to a classroom,” said Mike Haynie, vice chancellor for strategic initiatives and innovation at Syracuse University. “It happened in communal living situations and in gatherings that took place off campus.”

Mr. Haynie cited a study of 70,000 undergraduates at Indiana University, which found that the more classes a student took in person, the lower the likelihood that student would become infected with the coronavirus.

“The spread is in teacher break rooms, in fraternities and sororities,” Dr. Frieden said. “It’s not even in organized sports but in locker rooms before and pizza parties after.”

Syracuse has seen a “significant decrease” in undergraduates signing up for remote learning in the spring, indicating that more will elect to live on campus, according to the university’s press office. The university had about 15,000 students on campus this fall and expects the number to grow in the spring.

Steven Constable, a geophysicist at U.C. San Diego’s Scripps Institution of Oceanography and chair of the school’s academic senate, said data showing negligible transmission in classrooms had helped bring skeptical university employees on board with the university’s plan to add some in-person classes.

“You could argue that our lecture halls are one of the safer places to be in San Diego right now,” he said.

Instructors at other schools have been a harder sell. At the University of Florida, faculty have filed grievances over the school’s decision to offer 5,394 sections of face-to-face classes, 72 more than were offered last January, before the pandemic hit the United States. Concerns have persisted even though the school, which offered only optional testing this fall when it invited its 50,000 students back to campus, will expand its testing regimen, requiring that all students living on campus or taking classes in person be tested every two weeks in the spring.

Some faculty are also revolting at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The university sent most students home a week after classes began in August because of an outbreak, but is now proposing to bring 2,000 students back to campus residence halls, on top of 1,500 who were allowed to stay during the fall for hardship reasons. It will also offer about one out of five classes in person in the spring semester.

This month, about 70 faculty members signed an open letter, published in the student newspaper, that predicted a repeat of the fall debacle. “We have every reason to expect that the university will — once again — be overwhelmed by infections when classes resume,” the letter said.

But the university’s president, Kevin Guskiewicz, said he was confident the university could pull it off. “We’re working from a different starting place than we were in the fall,” he said.

The value of aggressive coronavirus testing has been one of the major lessons of the fall. “We changed our testing protocols substantially over the semester,” said Michael Fitts, Tulane’s president. “At one point, we moved it up to three times a week, and we found that was very effective, and we will continue that in the spring.”

Tulane has access to two testing machines through its medical school, which can conduct 3,000 tests a day and have results back in 12 hours. “I will say our positivity rate was much lower than New Orleans,” Mr. Fitts said of the university, which calls the city home.

Syracuse learned its lesson after Halloween, when the lab it was using produced results too slowly and transmission got out of hand, Mr. Haynie said. Now the university has its own testing lab, within the biology department. For the spring, it plans to double its capacity to about 300,000 tests between January and May.

“We realized we had to have full control and autonomy,” Mr. Haynie said.

Similarly Cornell University set up a lab in its veterinary school, where it can perform 35,000 to 40,000 tests a week and get results back in as little as eight hours. U.C. San Diego is processing its own tests, too.

U.C. San Diego is doing not only standard swab testing, but also testing wastewater, expanding contact tracing with a phone app and moving instruction to outdoor classrooms. As of Saturday, the school had recorded only about 70 cases since March among the more than 9,000 students living on campus, according to the school dashboard.

“It’s like a Swiss cheese model,” said Pradeep Khosla, U.C. San Diego’s chancellor and an engineer who specializes in system building. “Every layer has its holes, but put together, it’s a solid block.”

Most college officials do not expect a vaccine to be available for students in the spring term. But many universities, like the University of Kentucky, are planning to be integrally involved in the distribution of vaccines through their health systems, which will position them for providing it on campus when the time comes.

Though a vaccine might seem the light at the end of the Covid tunnel, it will also pose a new challenge for university administrators, said Crystal Watson, senior scholar at Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security.

“Will they make it mandatory for students, staff and faculty?” she asked. “If not, will vaccination be required for some type of the population but not others? That’s a big open question.”

Dr. Watson said that however far colleges have come, there is still a large gap between the wish for normalcy and the reality. “Right now it looks so different from what a traditional campus would look like,” she said. “The students are getting such a bad deal this year. It really stinks.”





No.21 article:
Overlooked No More: Barbara Waxman Fiduccia, Reproductive Rights Advocate

A sexual health educator and counselor in Los Angeles, she challenged a dominant culture that viewed people with disabilities as asexual beings.

This article is part of Overlooked, a series of obituaries about remarkable people whose deaths, beginning in 1851, went unreported in The Times.

Barbara Waxman Fiduccia took pride in her identity as a disabled woman. Her stylish dress, whether a kimono-sleeved jacket, a leather miniskirt or leopard-print shoes, was more than an expression of personal taste. To Fiduccia, a reproductive rights activist who used a ventilator and maneuvered her wheelchair with a sort of regal command, her clothing was part of a political statement, a demand to be seen in full.

“She loved her body,” said Alice Wong, an activist and author who was a member of the National Council on Disability during the Obama administration, and who looked to Fiduccia as a role model. “She was an unapologetically sexual disabled woman — unapologetic about her politics and the way she lived her life.”

Fiduccia was among the first to campaign openly for reproductive rights for people with disabilities. In trenchant essays and policy papers, she challenged a dominant culture that viewed people with disabilities as asexual beings, with no feelings of intimacy or desire to have children.

These attitudes, she said, were translated into public policies that discouraged disabled couples from marrying and having families, and that created barriers that prevented them from enjoying sexually fulfilling lives.

In her 15 years as a sexual health educator and counselor in Los Angeles, Fiduccia regularly saw clients who experienced self-loathing and sexual loneliness — a consequence, she said, of internalized cultural notions.

She pushed to broaden the disability rights movement beyond physical access to transportation, public buildings, schools and places of employment. Disabled people, she wrote in a 1991 essay, are “concerned with being loved and finding sexual fulfillment.”

“Why hasn’t our movement politicized our sexual oppression as we do transportation and attendant services?” she wrote in the essay, which was published in The Disability Rag, a magazine devoted to disability issues. “I believe we don’t speak out because we believe we are ultimately to blame for not getting laid — that it is somehow a personal inferiority.”

Her message was empowering.

“She believed that denying your sexuality was denying your personhood,” Corbett Joan O’Toole, a disability rights activist and owner of Reclamation Press, a publisher of books by authors with disabilities, said in a phone interview. “She came from the place of a woman in an electric wheelchair, speaking for people who were taught to be ashamed of who they are.”

Fiduccia pushed for increased access to reproductive services, including mammograms and pelvic exams. She and others successfully lobbied to expand the national Hate Crime Statistics Act to include violence against people with disabilities. She also served on the California attorney general’s Civil Rights Commission on Hate Crimes.

With her future husband, Daniel Fiduccia, a legal affairs consultant she met at a 1992 training session for disability advocates, she fought to raise the income limit for federal health benefits, which stood in the way of marriage for disabled couples. Daniel Fiduccia was a survivor of childhood cancer, and his mobility was limited from radiation treatments that had weakened his bones.

Under federal health limits, Barbara Fiduccia’s salary as a single woman was low enough for Medicare and Medicaid to cover the cost of her personal attendants and ventilator. But the couple’s combined income was over the limit, forcing them to choose between marriage and the health benefits that helped keep Barbara Fiduccia alive. Her dilemma, she told The San Jose Mercury News in 1995, felt “like a dirty joke.”

“I was told in so many ways as a girl that I’d always be alone,” she told the newspaper. Instead, she said, she found “tremendous love and passion” with a man who wanted to spend his life with her.

“I got over the stigma,” she said, “and now I can’t get married.”

Her ventilator strapped to the back of her wheelchair, Barbara Fiduccia made the rounds on Capitol Hill, advocating alongside other disability activists, while Daniel Fiduccia helped map out a legal strategy. Although Congress did not eliminate the so-called marriage penalty, the rules were changed in the mid-1990s to allow states to grant waivers to individual couples.

“They wanted to be married, and this was their one shot,” Marsha Saxton, director of research and training at the World Institute on Disability in Oakland, Calif., and a friend of Barbara Fiduccia, said in a phone interview. “But they also wanted to change policy.”

The couple married in July 1996 in a small Roman Catholic service near their home in Cupertino, Calif., said Rick Santina, a family friend who attended. They were fond of children, though they had none of their own. Santina said his children came to know Barbara Fiduccia as “Aunt Beep” because she let them blast the horn on her wheelchair as she gave them rides on her lap.

Barbara Faye Waxman was born in Los Angeles on April 1, 1955, the younger of two children of Sol Waxman, owner of a commercial photography lab, and Toby (Lowsky) Waxman. She and her brother, Michael, had spinal muscular atrophy, an inherited disorder that causes progressive muscle weakness. Her parents were told she would not live past 30.

Because she could walk as a child, albeit with difficulty, her parents wrestled with whether to enroll her in special education classes, where she was more likely to make friends, or in regular public school classes, where she would receive a better education. They chose the latter, an environment Fiduccia described years later as “psychologically damaging.”

During recess in grade school, a teacher routinely admonished her to run, though young Barbara was incapable of doing so. In high school, she tripped almost daily on an uneven carpet as her math teacher walked past her, staring.

“In those 12 years, though they never spoke of it, I believe it was my disability they saw, while forgetting it was a child who possessed it,” she said.

After receiving her bachelor’s degree in psychology from California State University, Northridge, in 1978, Fiduccia went to work at Planned Parenthood in Los Angeles as a health educator and disability project coordinator. Clients told her that gynecologists, like her former teachers, often focused on their disabilities instead of on their reproductive health needs.

“I know of many times when a woman has been sent back to her orthopedist for a Pap smear,” she said in her 1985 testimony before a congressional committee exploring changes to Title IX, which bars gender discrimination at institutions receiving federal funding.

But Fiduccia eventually left Planned Parenthood, pained by what she called a “strong eugenics mentality that established disdain, discomfort and ignorance toward disabled babies.”

She cringed whenever her co-workers discussed prenatal testing and the need to abort a disabled fetus. “There was a feeling that there were bad babies,” she told The New York Times in 1991.

Fiduccia then worked at the Los Angeles Regional Family Planning Council, an umbrella organization for more than 100 clinics, where she continued her focus on reproductive health for women with disabilities. After that, she served as senior associate at the Center for Women Policy Studies, a feminist policy research organization.

Her husband, an advocate for childhood cancer survivors, died after a recurrence of cancer in 2001. Fiduccia herself died 18 days later, on April 24, when her ventilator equipment failed. She was 46.

A year after their marriage, the Fiduccias renewed their vows in a Jewish service in Los Angeles. Surrounded by hundreds of guests, the couple made their way, hand in hand, across a terrace toward a huppah, he in his scooter and she in her wheelchair, which she rode, her friend Marsha Saxton said, “like a queen on a steed.” Under the wedding canopy, in keeping with Jewish tradition, she circled the groom seven times.

Fiduccia’s dress, Saxton said, was “full of life,” a statement of triumph in bronze and teal.

After the dinner, the Fiduccias took to the dance floor, which was covered in bubble wrap that joyously popped as their wheels rolled over it. Soon guests in wheelchairs joined them on the floor; others looked on, waiving light sticks. The celebration ended with fireworks, an explosion of color against the night sky.





No.22 article:
Behind Baker Mayfield, the Browns and Their Playoff Hopes Mature

With a five-touchdown outburst against a formidable A.F.C. contender, Cleveland and its stabilizing star showed a trait the franchise had lacked for almost two decades: playoff poise.

The Cleveland Browns’ postseason drought grew from a crabby and cranky toddler into an exasperating adolescent. After its tumultuous teens, it seems ready to say goodbye.

The Browns are primed to qualify for the playoffs for the first time in 18 years after bludgeoning the Tennessee Titans on Sunday, a 41-35 victory in Nashville that improved their security in the standings to an extent largely alien in northeast Ohio since the current incarnation of the franchise returned in 1999. Only twice before in that span had Cleveland finished with even a nonlosing record, but the Browns are now 9-3 for the first time since 1994, when they won their last playoff game and Bill Belichick prowled their sideline.

It’s unclear whatever happened to that guy, but the Browns, in the meantime, endured one self-inflicted indignity after another: from a relocation to Baltimore to numerous regime changes to a 1-31 stretch that produced the draft capital that has spurred this revival. The Browns’ top offensive selections from their critical 2018 draft — quarterback Baker Mayfield, taken first over all, and running back Nick Chubb, chosen in the second round — contributed to all five touchdowns against the Titans (8-4) on Sunday, each coming in the dizzying first half, which produced a most improbable halftime score of Cleveland 38, Tennessee 7.

“I think people know that we are a good team now,” Chubb said.

This game represented a pivot point in Cleveland’s season, at once an opportunity to dismiss a perception that it had puffed its record with victories against inferior teams and to affirm it is levelheaded enough to defeat another A.F.C. contender. In a matchup of 8-3 teams with powerful rushing offenses — Cleveland ranked first in the N.F.L., Tennessee second — both strayed from type.

The Titans, who had five turnovers all season, committed three on Sunday. And the Browns, echoing the aggressive approach they deployed in scoring 49 points at Dallas earlier this season, called trick plays and passed often, sprinkling in Chubb and his dynamic backfield counterpart, Kareem Hunt, instead of relying on them. The play design and play-calling of Coach Kevin Stefanski, coupled with Mayfield’s execution, generated one touchdown pass after another — a dart to Jarvis Landry, a goal-line grab by offensive lineman Kendall Lamm, a deep ball off a nifty play fake to Donovan Peoples-Jones, a lofted toss to Rashard Higgins. At halftime, Mayfield had completed 21 of 26 passes for 296 of his 334 yards.

“He’s playing at a high level and he has to continue to do so,” Stefanski said. “We’re counting on him, and he knows that.”

In a game that featured 76 total points and 889 total yards, it was two defensive plays that truly powered the Browns. Those plays countered consecutive first-quarter carries by Derrick Henry, who seemed to embark on his annual December rampage last week when he rushed for 178 yards and three touchdowns against Indianapolis. On Sunday, Cleveland stuffed Henry, among the league’s best short-yardage backs, on fourth-and-1, then stripped him deep in Tennessee territory. The Browns’ 3-0 lead ballooned to 17-0. Had the Titans’ Mike Vrabel coached beneath a ladder while a black cat circled his feet, the first half couldn’t have gone worse for Tennessee.

The Browns’ minus-15 point differential is the worst for a team that has won at least nine of its first 12 games in N.F.L. history, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. With occasional exceptions — Houston (minus-7) last season, Buffalo (minus-57) and Tennessee (minus-22) in 2017 — teams with negative point differentials don’t reach the playoffs because teams with negative point differentials generally don’t win that often.

The Browns had won their last three games by a combined 10 points, but for them the margin was irrelevant. They are winning games by minimizing mistakes — Mayfield fumbled late Sunday, but he hasn’t thrown an interception since Oct. 25 — and recognizing their strengths.

The playoff hype that reached a zenith before the 2019 season, when an influx of talent raised expectations to an unhealthy degree, is more legitimate now that Cleveland, under Stefanski and the new general manager, Andrew Berry, is rooted in stability.

“They need to reset their expectations,” Mayfield said, referring to Browns fans. “We all need to reset the standard, and that’s what I’ve been saying. There’s a new standard, there’s a foundation we have to continue to build on and improve. That’s just the way we need to handle things.”

With four games remaining, Cleveland holds the top wild-card spot in the A.F.C., a game ahead of Miami and Indianapolis (both 8-4), which currently have the other two postseason berths, and two games ahead of Las Vegas (7-5). The division rival Baltimore (6-5), Cleveland’s opponent next Monday night, and New England (6-6) are also in the mix.

If all goes as scheduled, the Browns’ season will end at home against unbeaten Pittsburgh on Jan. 3, two days short of the 18th anniversary of their last playoff game and a fine day to bid it farewell.





No.23 article:
An N.B.A. Veteran Turns Wisdom Into Wins, On and Off the Court

At 36, Andre Iguodala is on the back end of his N.B.A. career, as an elder statesman with the Miami Heat, but he’s hitting his stride in the tech world.

Andre Iguodala’s family members were reluctant card game participants.

He is, after all, the father who used a casual family game night of Uno to invoke Sun Tzu’s military teachings in “The Art of War.”

“I know what color he has in his hand,” Iguodala, the Miami Heat veteran, said as he recalled a recent game. “I know what color she has in her hand. I know what card she’s about to throw in.”

Afterward, he told his 13-year-old son, Andre II, that his cutthroat mentality had little to do with winning.

“I’ve learned to pick up on my surroundings,” Iguodala said. “That’s something I’ve taught him and that I try to teach him. ‘When you’re watching me play, see how I’m playing, knowing your opponent.’ It’s like ‘The Art of War’ and giving him a few tactics on just seeing life a certain way, where you’re ultra alert and you try to use those things to your advantage. Data is the key.”

That philosophy has been vital for the 36-year-old Iguodala. Players his age make it this far only by countering the loss of young legs with the wisdom of miles traveled.

“There’s no such thing as having enough knowledge,” Iguodala said.

He plays as though he has already witnessed a sequence, arriving with a quick, solid poke of a ball on defense or delivering a pass before a teammate steps into the previously unoccupied space, tendencies learned through a lifetime of studying the game.

He credits that knack to playing for hours a day growing up, watching film as a young player, and witnessing up close the work of the league’s defensive stalwarts of that era, players like Scottie Pippen, Bruce Bowen and Metta World Peace.

“From there, you just store the information, learning the trends of the league,” Iguodala said. “Most teams run the same exact plays, so you know where the ball is going before it gets there.”

The mind-set extends beyond the basketball court to entrepreneurial ventures in technology and e-commerce, worlds he started exploring before his 2013 trade to the Golden State Warriors solidified his link to Silicon Valley.

“The folks that follow the tech space, they all know the data is king and we all know the importance of data,” Iguodala said. “And not just the importance of data, but how you use it and how you can use it to expand and build your company.”

When this year dawned, all data on the basketball side suggested that Iguodala would not figure in the N.B.A. postseason for the first time in a long while.

The Warriors traded him to the Memphis Grizzlies last off-season, after he had played in five consecutive N.B.A. finals, earning the finals’ Most Valuable Player Award in 2015. The trade created a standoff in which Iguodala and Memphis agreed that he would not report to the organization as the Grizzlies found a future home for him.

For a while, Iguodala appeared more often at the enterprise software company Zuora, where he serves as a board adviser, than on any N.B.A. radar.

“A lot of athletes that do this will stay on what we call the consumer side, the well-known brands, Apple, Instagram,” said Tien Tzuo, Zuora’s chief executive. “I work in more of a space of business applications, business software. It’s not as well known. And he just showed an incredibly strong interest in that. It’s not something that you might approach as a layman.”

The Heat acquired Iguodala in a three-team trade in February and, as he regained his footing, the coronavirus pandemic suspended the season indefinitely.

Iguodala, the first vice president of the National Basketball Players Association, helped coordinate the season’s restart in a bubble environment at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla., collaborating on protocols for a return and fielding phone calls from concerned players.

Some voiced hesitation, worried that resuming play would distract from calls for social justice after the police killing of George Floyd in Minnesota.

The N.B.A.’s return featured Black Lives Matter wording near center court, and many players wore league-sanctioned messaging on the back of their jerseys.

“You do see the sports leagues taking more of a stance,” said Iguodala, who chose to have “Group Economics” on the back of his jersey instead of his last name. Iguodala added that for leagues with a majority-Black work force, like the N.B.A.: “I think there’s a moral compass there. And so you have to take some type of stance. And it’s not really a political stance — it’s a human stance.”

Then, in August, Iguodala became one of the most vocal players during a series of meetings after the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wis.

The players initiated a work stoppage of playoff games until the league’s franchise owners agreed to specific commitments, including searching for ways to provide voting access to underrepresented communities.

“How you get so many African-American athletes of that wealth to be able to come out stronger as a whole, as a union, that was a beautiful thing, regardless of what people may have thought would happen,” Iguodala said. “Just seeing all of us being able to have dialogue, whether we agreed or we disagreed with one another, that was huge.”

Iguodala ended the season in his sixth consecutive finals, where Miami lost to the Lakers in six games.

“The bubble was the perfect environment for us, because of how they mentally train the guys to take on any challenge,” Iguodala said. “We were just ready for it, and we made the most of it.”

Iguodala is also making the most of his off-court pursuits. He was an early investor in Zoom, the platform he used to conduct the interview for this article. He joined Comcast Ventures’ Catalyst Fund as a venture partner.

His goal is to continue educating, creating access for and investing in minorities and marginalized communities. In other words, backing up the message he wore on the back of his jersey.

“Professional athletes have too much downtime,” Iguodala said. “That’s how they get in trouble. What I’ve been able to do is take that time and find something that’s purposeful, and it’s a passion, something I really enjoy, and not just monetize it, but also help bring my cohorts into the space with me and help them learn as well.”

Iguodala and Stephen Curry joined with Bloomberg L.P. in 2017 to create the annual Players Technology Summit, a forum to link athletes with executives in technology and venture capitalism.

“People don’t realize the potential athletes have to learn, given the fact that they’ve been professionals in this one discipline for such a long time, from basically childhood,” said Rudy-Cline Thomas, the founder of the venture capital firm Mastry and Iguodala’s longtime business partner. “The potential for learning something outside of that is extremely high.”

As Iguodala’s basketball career winds down — “sooner rather than later” he’ll be able to focus on other things, he said — he wants to make sure other players recognize their value on and off the court.

“We always talk about player health physically and mentally, but ultimately that No. 1 agenda is the dollars and how much can we bring in,” Iguodala said.

Iguodala pointed to the recent sale of the Utah Jazz to Ryan Smith, the chief executive of Qualtrics, for $1.66 billion. The franchise’s previous sale was for $8 million in 1985, when the auto dealer Larry H. Miller bought 50 percent. He later bought the rest of the franchise for $14 million.

“Any player in the history of playing for the Jazz organization — John Stockton, Karl Malone — did any of them benefit from that value increase?” Iguodala said. “Did any of them have skin in the game? No.”

Just 50 days separated the end of the N.B.A. finals from the start of training camp last week. The N.B.A. faced a significant financial loss if it waited until the next calendar year.

“I think players are realizing that we have to stand a little bit more firm with our negotiations, in terms of who’s bearing the brunt of the risk when we’re put in these tough situations,” Iguodala said. “You’re asking us to put our bodies on the line and take more of a financial risk.”

Iguodala hopes that players collectively and individually realize their worth.

Careers don’t last forever.

For now, Iguodala’s continues, the data stored from last season’s winding road taken into a new one.





No.24 article:
China Peddles Falsehoods to Obscure Origin of Covid Pandemic

To push the idea that the virus didn’t come from China, the government has misrepresented experts’ remarks and given dubious theories the veneer of science.

The mild-mannered German scientist never anticipated becoming a Chinese propaganda star.

But Alexander Kekulé, the director of the Institute for Biosecurity Research in Halle, Germany, has been all over the state-run media in China in recent days. News outlets have taken Dr. Kekulé’s research out of context to suggest that Italy, not China, is where the coronavirus pandemic began. Photos of him have appeared on Chinese news sites under headlines reading, “China is innocent!”

Dr. Kekulé, who has repeatedly said that he believes the virus first emerged in China, was startled. “This is pure propaganda,” he said in an interview.

Facing global anger over their initial mishandling of the outbreak, the Chinese authorities are now trying to rewrite the narrative of the pandemic by pushing theories that the virus originated outside China.

In recent days, Chinese officials have said that packaged food from overseas might have initially brought the virus to China. Scientists have released a paper positing that the pandemic could have started in India. The state news media has published false stories misrepresenting foreign experts, including Dr. Kekulé and officials at the World Health Organization, as having said the coronavirus came from elsewhere.

The campaign seems to reflect anxiety within the ruling Communist Party about the continuing damage to China’s international reputation brought by the pandemic. Western officials have criticized Beijing for trying to conceal the outbreak when it first erupted.

The party also appears eager to muddy the waters as the World Health Organization begins an investigation into the question of how the virus jumped from animals to humans, a critical inquiry that experts say is the best hope to avoid another pandemic. China, which has greatly expanded its influence in the W.H.O. in recent years, has tightly controlled the effort by designating Chinese scientists to lead key parts of the investigation.

By spreading theories that foreigners are responsible for the pandemic, the party is deploying a well-worn playbook. The Chinese government is rarely willing to publicly address its own shortcomings, often preferring to redirect attention elsewhere and rally the country against a common enemy.

China’s leader, Xi Jinping, has led a vigorous effort this year to play down his government’s early failures in the crisis, instead arguing that the party’s success in containing the virus shows the superiority of its authoritarian system.

The latest propaganda push gives Mr. Xi a fresh chance to stoke nationalist sentiment and distract from festering problems, including a lingering wealth gap. The government seems wary of inviting renewed scrutiny of its actions as the pandemic began to unfold, analysts say.

Mr. Xi most likely sees the party’s missteps as a vulnerability and is eager to avoid potential challenges to his authority at home, said Erin Baggott Carter, an assistant professor of political science at the University of Southern California. “If Xi is able to escape blame for the coronavirus, that reduces one major source of discontent with his rule,” she said.

In some ways, China’s strategy resembles efforts by American lawmakers to distract from missteps in that country by spreading fringe theories, including the unsubstantiated notion that the Chinese government manufactured the virus as a biological weapon.

For months, Chinese officials openly spread conspiracy theories of their own, implying at one point that the United States military could have brought the virus to the city of Wuhan. Experts and officials are now going further, trying to give falsehoods about the origins of the virus the veneer of scientific fact.

A recent paper by a group of scientists affiliated with the state-run Chinese Academy of Sciences indicated that the virus could have broken out in India before spreading to China. “Wuhan is not the place where human-to-human SARS-CoV-2 transmission first happened,” said the paper, which appeared last month on SSRN, an online scholarly repository. The paper, which was not peer-reviewed, had been submitted to The Lancet, a medical journal, for publication.

After drawing wide attention in the Chinese news media and in overseas outlets, the 22-page article vanished from online sites. A spokeswoman for The Lancet said it had been removed from SSRN at the request of the paper’s authors. The scientists did not respond to requests for comment.

The article was the latest in a series of comments and articles by Chinese scientists arguing that the virus had first surfaced in Italy, Spain or elsewhere before spreading to China.

While recent studies have indicated that the coronavirus may have infected people in the United States and elsewhere earlier than previously thought, researchers still believe the most likely explanation is that it started circulating in China.

Edward Holmes, a professor at the University of Sydney who has studied the coronavirus, said the idea that the virus originated outside China seemed to be gaining traction for political purposes. “It lacks scientific credibility and will only further fuel the conspiracy theories,” he said.

As part of their efforts to redirect attention toward other countries, Chinese scholars and officials have in recent weeks revived another unproven theory: that frozen food packages from abroad brought the virus to China. Chinese officials say they have detected the virus on pork from Germany, shrimp from Ecuador, salmon from Norway and other products.

While the World Health Organization says the probability of becoming infected from coming into contact with food and food packaging is low, Chinese officials have doubled down on the theory.

“More and more evidence suggests that the frozen seafood or meat products probably spread the virus from countries with the epidemic into our country,” Wu Zunyou, the chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said in a recent interview posted on a government website.

Even if the virus could spread through frozen goods, experts say packaged food alone cannot explain why the first major outbreak took place in Wuhan.

As it seeks to push its theories on the global stage, the Chinese government has distorted comments from foreign experts to falsely suggest that there is broad consensus that the virus first surfaced outside China.

Michael Ryan, the World Health Organization’s emergency director, spoke recently about the need for a rigorous investigation into how the virus spread from animals to humans. “We need to start where we found the first cases and that is in Wuhan in China,” Dr. Ryan said at a news conference late last month in Geneva.

But in China, the government framed Dr. Ryan’s remarks differently. The news media falsely claimed that he had said the virus existed around the world but happened to be discovered in Wuhan.

Dr. Ryan was more explicit a few days later, saying the idea that the virus originated outside China was “highly speculative.” Official news outlets in China did not report that remark.

When Dr. Kekulé, the German scientist, appeared on a television news show last month to discuss the pandemic, he made a point of saying that it was clear the virus had first emerged in China. During the interview, he also criticized European officials for taking too long to detect the virus, saying it enabled Covid-19 to spread across the globe.

Chinese news outlets seized on the latter remarks. “He noted that for a global pandemic, the starting shot was fired in northern Italy,” said a report by China Global Television Network, an international arm of the official Chinese state broadcaster.

Dr. Kekulé, who has written a book about the pandemic, was distraught and set out to correct the record, going on German television again to say he had been misquoted.

“China uses everything for propaganda,” Dr. Kekulé said in an interview. “I started to realize that I had to do something about it.”

But Dr. Kekulé’s efforts were largely in vain. Video clips of his remarks about Europe had already spread widely on the Chinese internet. Thousands of people were sharing state media articles about his research, leaving comments such as, “A billion people in China thank you!” and “There are not many scientists who dare tell the truth.”

A simple phrase appeared in red writing above Dr. Kekulé’s face in a meme that circulated online: “Not Wuhan.”





No.25 article:
Quotation of the Day: In Debate, Loeffler Won’t Acknowledge Trump Lost Election

“The president’s statements are false. They are misinformation. They are stoking anger and fear among his supporters — and hell, I voted for him.”

GABRIEL STERLING, a top state elections official in Georgia and a Republican, on the NBC program “Meet the Press” on Sunday, responding to President Trump’s baseless claims that the presidential election in Georgia was rigged.





No.26 article:
Why ‘Wonder Woman’ at Home Matters

The Netflix model is winning, and the entertainment industry may be changed forever.

This article is part of the On Tech newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it weekdays.

If this is the moment when entertainment changes forever, it won’t only be because streaming won. It will also be because total control is irresistible.

Warner Bros., the Hollywood powerhouse whose films include the “Wonder Woman” and “Harry Potter” series and “Casablanca,” said on Thursday that all of its new films in 2021 would come out at the same time in movie theaters and on its sibling streaming service, HBO Max, my colleagues Brooks Barnes and Nicole Sperling wrote.

Before now, some new movies in the United States have been available for us to watch at home on the day they debuted in theaters. But never at this scale.

Warner Bros. said that its movies-plus-streaming approach was a temporary measure while the pandemic made some people wary of movie theaters. But don’t be fooled. It will be almost impossible to go back to the old ways of doing things, as Brooks and Nicole wrote.

You and your binges of “The Great British Baking Show” know why. “This is about turning HBO Max into a Netflix,” Brooks told me.

Conventional entertainment companies like AT&amp;T, which owns Warner Bros., Walt Disney and basically anyone who ever made a TV show are trying to become Netflix, and fast. (The media writer Peter Kafka of Recode, who has said another factor of Warner Bros.’ online film releases was the weaknesses of movie theater chains, wrote about the urge to catch up to Netflix several weeks ago.)

But it’s also important to understand an underappreciated motivation behind the Netflix envy. This isn’t only about streaming beating cable television companies and movie theaters. The Netflix model represents a complete reordering of entertainment into self-contained empires that control as much as possible from the first frame of a film shoot to the last pixel of a movie you watch on your phone.

The old model of entertainment involves constant handoffs of control. A company that makes a movie relies on a cineplex to release it and then turns over its product again to video rental stores (remember them?), movie download services, TV channels and other outsiders to make sure it gets seen.

This new approach dispenses with a bunch of that. Instead, Netflix tries to control almost everything from beginning to end. It’s not there yet, and AT&amp;T isn’t going that far with HBO Max — yet — but that’s the direction everyone is headed.

It’s as if Ford aspired to make every part that went into its cars, assemble the vehicles and sell them instead of buying parts from a bunch of different suppliers and going through car dealerships.

There has been almost nothing like this before, and that’s why this reordering of the entertainment industry is different from the history of big changes that has made Hollywood predict its own demise many times before.

To be frank, I don’t know if the self-contained empire model that Netflix inspired will last. Even Netflix has to constantly borrow money because it typically spends more cash each year than it takes in from our subscriptions. But as every major company in entertainment tries to control its own destiny, don’t underestimate how big a deal this is.

A well-respected Google researcher, Timnit Gebru, said she was fired by the company after criticizing its approach to minority hiring and the biases built into artificial intelligence systems, my colleagues Cade Metz and Daisuke Wakabayashi reported.

(You can read here the email that Dr. Gebru wrote to a group including Google employees, and one that Jeff Dean, who oversees Google’s A.I. work, wrote to the company.)

We’re seeing clashes between technology company workers and their employers spill out into the open more and more, over issues including workplace safety, diversity and the ethics of technology.

This is probably not because Google, Facebook or Amazon have more disagreements between management and workers than a restaurant chain or an accounting firm. It’s that Big Tech companies are not ordinary employers. The outside world pays more attention to what they do, and we should.

These gigantic companies set trends for everything from how offices are designed to what workers are paid, and they should be held to a higher standard. The companies often say they want the extra attention and deserve it, but I’m not sure they mean it.

When Dai wrote an article in 2017 about an analysis that found that Google paid male employees more than women at most job levels, the company’s head of human resources at the time told him: “I do believe Google, because of its size and perhaps our size or our prominence in people’s everyday lives, I think we’re in the spotlight. It feels a little unfair.”

I have not forgotten this quote. I think this executive was expressing out loud something that most of her peers believe but keep to themselves. She was right that Google is in the spotlight. She was wrong that it’s unfair.

Google’s parent company has a stock market value nearly equivalent to the gross domestic product of Spain. It is therefore completely fair for it to get the same attention as a large country.

A couple in Australia returned home after an outing and found this koala clinging to their plastic Christmas tree. The koala was VERY GRUMPY about being pulled from its perch by wildlife rescuers, but she was relocated to a real tree outside.

We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think of this newsletter and what else you’d like us to explore. You can reach us at ontech@nytimes.com. 

If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, please sign up here.





No.27 article:
Police Drones Are Starting to Think for Themselves

CHULA VISTA, Calif. — When the Chula Vista police receive a 911 call, they can dispatch a flying drone with the press of a button.

On a recent afternoon, from a launchpad on the roof of the Chula Vista Police Department, they sent a drone across the city to a crowded parking lot where a young man was asleep in the front seat of a stolen car with drug paraphernalia on his lap.

When the man left the car, carrying a gun and a bag of heroin, a nearby police car had trouble following as he sprinted across the street and ducked behind a wall. But as he threw the gun into a dumpster and hid the bag of heroin, the drone, hovering above him, caught everything on camera. When he slipped through the back door of a strip mall, exited through the front door and ran down the sidewalk, it caught that, too.

Watching the live video feed, an officer back at headquarters relayed the details to the police on the scene, who soon caught the man and took him into custody. Later, they retrieved the gun and the heroin. And after another press of the button, the drone returned, on its own, to the roof.

Each day, the Chula Vista police respond to as many as 15 emergency calls with a drone, launching more than 4,100 flights since the program began two years ago. Chula Vista, a Southern California city with a population of 270,000, is the first in the country to adopt such a program, called Drone as First Responder.

Over the last several months, three other cities — two in California and one in Georgia — have followed suit. Police agencies from Hawaii to New York have used drones for years, but mostly in simple, manually flown ways. Officers would carry a drone in the trunk of a car on patrol or drive it to a crime scene before launching it over a park or flying it inside a building.

But the latest drone technology — mirroring technology that powers self-driving cars — has the power to transform everyday policing, just as it can transform package delivery, building inspections and military reconnaissance. Rather than spending tens of millions of dollars on large helicopters and pilots, even small police forces could operate tiny autonomous drones for a relative pittance.

That newfound automation, however, raises civil liberties concerns, especially as drones gain the power to track vehicles and people automatically. As the police use more drones, they could collect and store more video of life in the city, which could remove any expectation of privacy once you leave the home.

“Communities should ask hard questions about these programs. As the power and scope of this technology expands, so does the need for privacy protection,” said Jay Stanley, a senior policy analyst with the American Civil Liberties Union’s Project on Speech, Privacy and Technology. “Drones can be used to investigate known crimes. But they are also sensors that can generate offenses.”

With the pandemic still worsening, drones are a way of policing at a distance, said Rahul Sidhu, an officer in Redondo Beach, near Los Angeles, which started a program similar to the one in Chula Vista just after the virus reached the United States.

“We’re just trying to limit our exposure to other people,” he said. “Sometimes, you can send a drone without sending an officer.”

But down the road, he said, as these small unmanned helicopters become cheaper and more powerful, they will provide more efficient ways of policing urban areas. That could aid police departments at a time when the number of recruits is on the wane across the country and many voices are calling for funding cuts after months of protests against police violence.

In Chula Vista, drones are already an integral part of the way the police respond to emergencies. After an emergency call comes in, officers give the drone a location, and it flies to that point on its own — before returning on its own, too.

The department’s drones can cover about one-third of the city from two launch sites, responding to roughly 70 percent of all emergency calls. After asking the Federal Aviation Administration to approve a third launch site, the local police hope to cover the entire city, about 52 square miles between San Diego and the Mexican border.

Government regulations require that a certified pilot remain on the roof of the Police Department, overseeing the launch and, together with a police officer at a command station inside the building, handling most of the flying once the drone reaches its destination.

F.A.A. regulations aimed at protecting the flights of commercial planes and other aircraft prevent drones from being flown beyond the line of sight of their operators. But Chula Vista obtained a waiver from the F.A.A., so the pilot and officer can fly the drone as much as three miles from its launch site.

Each drone — including long-distance cameras, other sensors and software — costs the department about $35,000. But the overriding cost of the program lies in the many officers needed to operate the drones.

On another recent afternoon, when the Chula Vista police were alerted to a car turned upside down in an empty riverbed, they sent a new kind of drone into the ravine. Built by Skydio, a Silicon Valley company, it could avoid obstacles on its own thanks to many of the same technologies used by self-driving cars.

“An ordinary drone would have crashed by now, guaranteed,” Sgt. James Horst said as he watched a video of the drone swooping down into the riverbed and inspecting the inside of the car at close quarters.

Later, in the courtyard outside the Police Department, he showed how, with another press of the button, he could instruct an automated drone to follow a particular person or vehicle on its own. Skydio has long offered a consumer drone that can follow you from place to place, even as you weave between obstacles, like trees in a forest. Now the company, which recently hired Fritz Reber, the former head of the Chula Vista police drone program, is selling to the police and other businesses.

Shield AI, a start-up in San Diego that has worked with police departments, has developed a drone that can fly into a building and inspect the length and breadth of the premises on its own, with no pilot, in the dark as well as in daylight. Others, including Skydio and DJI, a company in China that makes the drones launched from the roof of the Chula Vista Police Department, are building similar technology.

The Chula Vista department treats drone video much as it does video from police body cams, storing footage as evidence and publicly releasing it only with approval, Capt. Don Redmond said. The department does not use drones for routine patrols.

For privacy advocates like Mr. Stanley of the A.C.L.U., the concern is that increasingly powerful technology will be used to target parts of the community — or strictly enforce laws that are out of step with social norms.

“It could allow law enforcement to enforce any area of the law against anyone they want,” Mr. Stanley said.

Drones, for instance, could easily be used to identify people and restrict activity during protests like those that have been so prevalent across the country in recent months. Captain Redmond said the Chula Vista department did not deploy drones over Black Lives Matter protests because its policies forbade it.

The Chula Vista police do not require the approval of city officials to expand drone use, but, according to Captain Redmond, they have publicly notified the community about the continued progress of the program.

Drone as First Responder programs in places like Redondo Beach and Clovis, Calif., are seeking waivers that would allow them to fly beyond the operators’ line of sight.

In Clovis, near the middle of the state, the Police Department has found that its drones tend to overheat at the height of summer. “We were flying them four days a week until it got too hot,” Lt. James Munro said. “Then we had to ground them.”

But he thinks these and other technical obstacles will soon be overcome. “Drones are like iPhones,” he said. “As soon as you get one, a new one arrives with new technology.”





No.28 article:
The Suburbs Helped Elect Biden. Can They Give Democrats the Senate, Too?

Some Atlanta suburbs that used to be “blood red” went blue in November. But Democrats need strong turnout in January, not just disaffected Republicans seeking to give Trump one final defeat.

DECATUR, Ga. — President Trump bet his re-election on a very specific vision of the American suburb: a 2020 edition of Mayfield from “Leave It to Beaver” in which residents are white, resent minorities, and prioritize their economic well-being over all other concerns.

The bet fell far short. Mr. Trump lost ground with suburban voters across the country. And particularly in Georgia, where rapidly changing demographics have made it the most racially diverse political battleground in the country, his pitch has been at odds with reality.

From the inner suburbs surrounding Atlanta and extending to the traditionally conservative exurbs, Democrats benefited from two big changes: Black, Latino and Asian residents moving into formerly white communities and an increase in the number of white, college-educated moderates and conservatives who have soured on Mr. Trump.

Those factors helped President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. become the first Democrat to win Georgia since 1992. And Senate runoff elections in January will test whether those Biden voters backed his agenda or simply sought to remove a uniquely divisive incumbent.

Though Mr. Trump is not on the ballot next month, he is very much involved in the race, and has not moderated his message despite his chastening at the ballot box. The hope is, to some degree, that the pitch that fell short with suburban voters last month will work when Democratic control of the Senate is at stake.

“Very simply, you will decide whether your children will grow up in a socialist country or whether they will grow up in a free country,” Mr. Trump told the crowd at a rally on Saturday in Valdosta, Ga. “And I will tell you this, socialist is just the beginning for these people. These people want to go further than socialism. They want to go into a communistic form of government.”

Mr. Trump was campaigning on behalf of Republican Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, who each have distinct political brands that could pose a challenge for Democrats. It’s a challenge Democrats are seeking to overcome, especially among suburban voters, by keeping Mr. Trump front and center.

Jon Ossoff, the Democratic candidate who finished about two percentage points behind Mr. Perdue, which sent their race to a runoff, makes this case at almost every campaign stop: If the Senate stays in Republican hands, it will block the change Georgia voted for when it elected Mr. Biden.

Carolyn Bourdeaux is the only Democrat to flip a House district this year. She won in Atlanta’s northeast suburbs and, like Mr. Biden, embraced her background as an ideological moderate and bipartisan deal maker.

“The Biden effect was probably split ticket voters,&quot; she said. 

Runoffs, she said, are about turnout, not party-crossing voters throwing a president out.

“You get your people to vote,” she said. “So one of the things you need to have is a real, robust grass-roots field operation.”

Ms. Bourdeaux’s win — and Mr. Biden’s — cracked a code for Democrats in the South, and highlights the changing nature of Atlanta’s suburban electorate, which has helped the party succeed. It was an effort ignited by neighborhood-level organizers, accelerated by an unpopular president, and carried over the finish line because of changes in Atlanta’s inner suburbs and throughout the state’s smaller cities, which showed significant swings toward Mr. Biden.

In Atlanta, long known colloquially as the “Black Mecca” for its concentration of Black wealth and political power, the proportion of white residents has steadily grown. In the suburbs, Black residents who have moved outward and a diverse collection of new arrivals have fueled Democratic change. That includes a growing Latino population, an influx of Asian-Americans, and college-educated white voters who may have supported Mr. Trump in 2016 but turned against him.

The result is a swing state where the “typical” suburban voter can take many forms. There’s Kim Hall, a 56-year-old woman who moved to suburban Cobb County eight years ago from Texas and attended a rally for Mr. Ossoff in Kennesaw. And Ali Hossain, a 63-year-old doctor who brags about his kids and cares about the economy; he attended an event for Mr. Ossoff in Decatur. He’s also an immigrant from Bangladesh who has begun organizing for state and national candidates.

“Asian and South Asian — we’re becoming big here,” Mr. Hossain said. “This time was history. When I went to early vote I saw thousands of people in line. People were fed up with Trump.”

In Henry County, about 30 miles southeast of Atlanta, Mr. Biden improved on his party’s performance in 2016 by nearly five times. Four years ago, Hillary Clinton bested Mr. Trump by four percentage points. In 2020, Mr. Biden won by more than 20 points.

Michael Burns, chair of the Henry County Democratic Party, said he expected some drop off in interest from general election to runoff. Instead, he’s been overwhelmed with investment from national groups and more local organizers than he knows what to do with.

For the runoff, “we’ve had to turn volunteers away,” Mr. Burns said. 

This is part of a larger shift, said Robert Silverstein, a Democratic political strategist who has worked on several Georgia races. Some assume suburban voters are universally moderate and white, not members of the party’s diverse base or progressives. Mr. Silverstein said for Democrats to win the runoffs in January and keep winning in places like Georgia, they have to both energize and persuade.

He noted that in 1992, when Bill Clinton carried the state, more affluent suburbs in Atlanta were “blood red.” Today, he said, the coalitions are vastly different.

Still, the patchwork that made the 2020 Democratic coalition possible is nascent and fragile, and could be defeated by an energized Republican electorate. Both Democratic Senate candidates will have to improve on their showings in November, when the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock beat a split Republican field and Mr. Ossoff ran firmly behind Mr. Biden.

Republicans are confident their base will turn out, and that the prospect of the unified Democratic government under Mr. Biden would put off some conservatives fearful of fiscal and cultural change.

The location of their campaign events are a tell of their priorities: Republicans have largely steered clear of the Atlanta metro region to focus on increasing turnout in more rural portions of the state. On Saturday, both candidates rallied with President Trump in Valdosta. The city, which is near Florida and has a large military and Naval community, is geographically three hours from Atlanta but even further in terms of pace and culture.

Democrats are hoping Mr. Trump’s involvement leads to a backlash that helps them consolidate the suburban vote. Last week, in a steady stream of public events, Mr. Ossoff hammered the Republican response to the coronavirus pandemic to Asian-American voters in Decatur, a city in DeKalb County, near Atlanta. During an event near a local university in Cobb County, another changing suburban region, he called Mr. Perdue a coward for refusing to debate him and has been critical of Ms. Loeffler as well.

“We’re running against like the Bonnie and Clyde of political corruption in America,” Mr. Ossoff said.

Some Georgia Republicans have privately expressed discomfort with Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue, who have hewed closely to Mr. Trump and all but abandoned outreach to the moderate center in favor of an all-base turnout strategy. 

Whit Ayres, a veteran Republican pollster in Georgia, said Republican erosion in the inner suburbs — and to a lesser degree the conservative exurbs — has blunted the advantage Republicans have enjoyed in runoff elections in the past. While white evangelicals and religious conservatives remain a core of the Republican base, and make up a portion of the suburban electorate, some Republicans worry such issue-driven voters may be put off by the Senators’ willingness to dip into Trump-induced conspiracy theories and misinformation.

Mr. Ayres said both sides have hurdles to overcome before January. Republicans have a president who is sowing discord within their party and Democrats need to mobilize communities that have typically sat out nonpresidential elections. They can’t, he said, count on the same coalition that turned out in November.

“Are these now permanent Democratic voters? No, not at all,” he said. “They’re in transition, and they were put off in large part by the conduct and behavior of the President.”

Both Democratic candidates, the state Democratic Party and outside groups have put together daily canvassing efforts to register and mobilize voters — again. Democrats have also taken notice of polling that shows Mr. Ossoff doing worse against Mr. Perdue than Dr. Warnock is faring against Ms. Loeffler.

Few expect the drop off to be so significant that the parties will split the Senate seats in the end. Much more likely is two Democratic wins or two Republican ones, a contest determined by whether liberals can match an energized conservative electorate that has often been insurmountable in lower turnout runoff elections in the state.

“Definitely demographics are changing. And the white folks, the higher educated voters in Fulton and Cobb counties, they became very anti-Trump very quickly,” said Mr. Silverstein, the Democratic strategist. “My hope, as a Democrat operative, is that they remain that way. But that’s the challenge here. There’s still a lot of Republicans in these suburbs.”

Last week in Alpharetta, just north of Atlanta, a “Stop the Steal” protest underscored the state’s messy political landscape, and sent a mixed message to suburban voters.

“We’re not going to vote on Jan. 5 on another machine made by China,” said L. Lin Wood, the attorney who has become a conservative hero in recent weeks by echoing the president’s baseless claims of voter fraud. He challenged Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler to be more vocal about overturning the election.

At Mr. Ossoff’s event in Kennesaw, several of his supporters found statements like Mr. Wood’s worrying, and a sign that each part of their state — the cities, suburbs and rural areas — is changing in ways that show Georgians are further apart than ever.

Tamekia Bell, a 39-year-old who moved back to the northwest suburb of Smyrna after years in the Washington area, said it’s up to the voters who delivered for Mr. Biden in November to deliver again.

“That hope we feel,” Ms. Bell said. “It won’t mean anything if Biden gets in there and can’t do anything.”





No.29 article:
Meryl Streep Isn’t on Our List of Greatest Actors. Here’s Why.

The Times’s co-chief film critics explain their rationale for some surprising inclusions, and exclusions, on their list of the greatest actors of the 21st century (so far).

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

There are few better ways to court the internet’s ire than to publish a list ranking the 25 greatest actors of the 21st century that does not include the words “Meryl” or “Streep.”

But Manohla Dargis and A.O. Scott, The Times’s co-chief film critics who over the past six months compiled the nearly 12,000-word list of standout performers, have no regrets. “Just because you haven’t seen a film or aren’t familiar with an actor doesn’t mean they aren’t great,” Ms. Dargis said. “I hope people use this list as an opportunity to expand their horizons.”

She and Mr. Scott embarked on the list — an effort to not just identify, but also rank, the best actors of the past two decades — in May at the urging of Stephanie Goodman, The Times’s film editor. The list they did three years ago of the 25 greatest films of the century was extremely popular and spawned lots of spinoff lists, Ms. Goodman said. “So I figured it’d be fun to do something like that again.”

Late last month, after the list published online, Ms. Dargis and Mr. Scott discussed notable disagreements, that Meryl Streep exclusion and the importance of representing performances from around the globe.

What has reader reaction been like so far?

A.O. SCOTT I’ve been surprised by the intensity of the Meryl Streep loyalty. I thought people might be upset about Tom Hanks, but we haven’t heard a word about him. The male actor people are most upset that we left off is Leonardo DiCaprio.

MANOHLA DARGIS We’ve gotten some really nasty comments about the decision to include Melissa McCarthy, which I think comes not only from who she is, but also from a prejudice of viewing comedy as lesser than drama.

For the record, why is Streep not on this list?

DARGIS I’m not going to say anything bad about Meryl Streep — we love her! Maybe if we’d had 26 slots, she’d be on it.

SCOTT Meryl Streep has given some very fine performances in the past 20 years, but she’s also given some not very good ones that are showy and overdone. I’m thinking of her portrayal of Violet Weston in “August: Osage County” or even as Margaret Thatcher in “The Iron Lady,” which she won an Oscar for in 2012. Those didn’t knock her out of contention, but they show she has more of a mixed record than her fans might acknowledge.

DARGIS Similar situation with Daniel Day-Lewis, who was amazing in “There Will Be Blood” but terrible — or not very good, at least — in “Nine.”

This list is nearly 12,000 words long. When did you start working on it?

SCOTT We started brainstorming in May. We were originally going to do the 25 best performances of the century, but that was just too titanic — conservatively, there have probably been between 15,000 and 20,000 movies released in the past 20 years — so we instead chose to focus on people’s bodies of work. Our initial lists had hundreds of names — we wanted to make sure we didn’t overlook anyone — and then we each made a list of 25 names and switched to see where we overlapped.

DARGIS We would get on the phone and go through the list, sometimes talking for hours at a time, weighing each actor one by one.

Were there any fisticuffs?

SCOTT One of my first lists had Will Ferrell, and I got a one-word response from Manohla: “No.”

DARGIS It wasn’t quite “Over my dead body,” but I was emphatic that it wasn’t going to happen.

SCOTT The hardest one for me to give up was this Romanian actor Vlad Ivanov — he stayed in there until the very end, but there just wasn’t room.

DARGIS I had a few square-jawed men like Viggo Mortensen, but I just had the feeling I was going to have to let them go. Maybe we should have done 50, but I don’t know that anyone wanted to read 25,000 words from us.

Anyone you didn’t debate?

DARGIS Denzel Washington was always No. 1 on both of our lists. [Ms. Goodman didn’t tell his representative before he was asked to talk about Viola Davis.] We didn’t want it to seem like there was a quid pro quo.

SCOTT Keanu Reeves has been a controversial pick, but he was on the list from the beginning. Then we decided we were going to make a statement by putting him up there on the list [at No. 4]. The John Wick movies aren’t masterpieces of cinema, but the way Reeves embodies this slightly ridiculous action hero in those movies is just beautiful to watch.

DARGIS And Rob Morgan. He just makes us happy every time he shows up in a movie.

What do you hope people take away from the list?

SCOTT Just because you haven’t seen a film doesn’t mean it isn’t worthy of inclusion. We didn’t just want this to be famous movie stars. There are lots of wonderful character actors who are consistently outstanding in smaller roles.

DARGIS Some people have said, ‘I don’t recognize any of these people” or “These are all foreign people.” Well, they aren’t foreign in their country! Expand your horizons and get beyond Joaquin Phoenix in “Joker.”

Any final thoughts?

DARGIS People keep yelling at us about how many Oscar nominations Streep has, as if that’s a metric Tony and I ever paid attention to. This is not a list of people who have been nominated for Oscars; this is our list of people we really, really respect and love. But we will be doing a 25,000-word ode to Meryl Streep at the end of the year, just so everyone knows.





No.30 article:
How Joe Biden’s Digital Team Tamed the MAGA Internet

The campaign’s empathetic digital strategy held up surprisingly well against President Trump’s passionate digital following.

Last April, when Rob Flaherty, the digital director for Joe Biden’s presidential campaign, told me that the former vice president’s team planned to use feel-good videos and inspirational memes to beat President Trump in a “battle for the soul of the internet,” my first thought was: Good luck with that.

After all, we were talking about the internet, which doesn’t seem to reward anything uplifting or nuanced these days. In addition, Mr. Trump is a digital powerhouse, with an enormous and passionate following, a coalition of popular right-wing media outlets boosting his signal, and a flair for saying the kinds of outrageous, attention-grabbing things that are catnip to the algorithms of Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. And after I wrote about Mr. Biden’s comparatively tiny internet presence last spring, I heard from legions of nervous Democratic strategists who worried that using “heal the nation” messaging against the MAGA meme army was like bringing a pinwheel to a prizefight.

But in the end, the bed-wetters were wrong. Mr. Biden won, and despite having many fewer followers and much less engagement on social media than Mr. Trump, his campaign raised record amounts of money and ultimately neutralized Mr. Trump’s vaunted “Death Star” — the name his erstwhile campaign manager, Brad Parscale, gave to the campaign’s digital operation.

Figuring out whether any particular online strategy decisively moved the needle for Mr. Biden is probably impossible. Offline factors, such as Mr. Trump’s mishandling of the pandemic and the economic devastation it has caused, undoubtedly played a major role. But since successful campaigns breed imitators, it’s worth looking under the hood of the Biden digital strategy to see what future campaigns might learn from it.

After the election, I spoke with Mr. Flaherty, along with more than a dozen other people who worked on the Biden digital team. They told me that while the internet alone didn’t get Mr. Biden elected, a few key decisions helped his chances.

In the early days of his campaign, Mr. Biden’s team envisioned setting up its own digital media empire. It posted videos to his official YouTube channel, conducted virtual forums and even set up a podcast hosted by Mr. Biden, “Here’s the Deal.” But those efforts were marred by technical glitches and lukewarm receptions, and they never came close to rivaling the reach of Mr. Trump’s social media machine.

So the campaign pivoted to a different strategy, which involved expanding Mr. Biden’s reach by working with social media influencers and “validators,” people who were trusted by the kinds of voters the campaign hoped to reach.

“We were not the biggest megaphone compared to Trump, so we had to help arm any who were,” said Andrew Bleeker, the president of Bully Pulpit Interactive, a Democratic strategy firm that worked with the Biden campaign.

One validator at the top of the team’s list was Brené Brown, a research professor and popular author and podcast host who speaks and writes about topics like courage and vulnerability. Dr. Brown has a devoted following among suburban women — a critical demographic for Mr. Biden’s campaign — and when Mr. Biden appeared as a guest on her podcast to talk about his own stories of grief and empathy, the campaign viewed it as a coup.

Also high on the list was the actor Dwayne (The Rock) Johnson, whose following skews center-right and male. Mr. Johnson’s endorsement this fall of Mr. Biden and his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, created a so-called permission structure for his followers — including some who may have voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 — to support Mr. Biden, members of the campaign staff told me.

Celebrity endorsements aren’t a new campaign strategy. But Mr. Biden’s team also worked with lesser-known influencers, including YouTubers like Liza Koshy, and struck a partnership with a group of creators known as TikTok for Biden, which the campaign paid to promote pro-Biden content on the teen-dominated video app TikTok.

Perhaps the campaign’s most unlikely validator was Fox News. Headlines from the outlet that reflected well on Mr. Biden were relatively rare, but the campaign’s tests showed that they were more persuasive to on-the-fence voters than headlines from other outlets. So when they appeared — as they did in October when Fox News covered an endorsement that Mr. Biden received from more than 120 Republican former national security and military officials — the campaign paid to promote them on Facebook and other platforms.

“The headlines from the sources that were the most surprising were the ones that had the most impact,” said Rebecca Rinkevich, Mr. Biden’s digital rapid response director. “When people saw a Fox News headline endorsing Joe Biden, it made them stop scrolling and think.”

A frequent criticism of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign was that it was too focused on appealing to the elite, high-information crowd on Twitter, instead of paying attention to the much larger group of voters who get their news and information on Facebook. In 2020, Mr. Biden’s digital team was committed to avoiding a repeat.

“The whole Biden campaign ethos was ‘Twitter isn’t real life,’” Mr. Flaherty said. “There are risks of running a campaign that is too hyper-aware of your own ideological corner.”

As it focused on Facebook, the Biden campaign paid extra attention to “Facebook moms” — women who spend a lot of time sharing cute and uplifting content, and who the campaign believed could be persuaded to vote for Mr. Biden with positive messages about his character. Its target audience, Mr. Flaherty said, was women “who would go out and share a video of troops coming home, or who would follow The Dodo,” a website known for heartwarming animal videos.

One successful clip aimed at this group showed Mr. Biden giving his American flag lapel pin to a young boy at a campaign stop. Another video showed Mr. Biden, who has talked about overcoming a stutter in his youth, meeting Brayden Harrington, a 13-year-old boy with one. Both were viewed millions of times.

Voters also responded positively to videos in which Mr. Biden showed his command of foreign policy. In January, after a U.S. drone strike killed the Iranian general Qassim Suleimani, the campaign posted a three-minute Facebook video of Mr. Biden explaining the situation. Despite the snoozy title — “Joe Biden Discusses Donald Trump’s Recent Actions in the Middle East” — the video became one of the campaign’s earliest viral successes.

The campaign also experimented with lighter fare, putting virtual Biden for President lawn signs in Animal Crossing, the hit Nintendo game, and setting up a custom “Build Back Better” map in Fortnite, the popular battle royale game, in hopes of reaching younger voters. Some of these efforts were more gimmicky than others. But they all reflected the campaign’s decision to take a pro-Biden message to as many corners of the internet as possible.

“Our goal was really to meet people where they were,” said Christian Tom, the head of Mr. Biden’s digital partnerships team.

One of the campaign’s goals, Biden staff members told me, was promoting content that increased “social trust” — in other words, avoiding the kind of energizing, divisive fare that Mr. Trump has used to great effect.

But Mr. Biden’s digital strategy wasn’t all puppies and rainbows. The campaign also joined ranks with a number of popular left-wing Facebook pages, many of which are known for putting out aggressive anti-Trump content.

They called this group the “Rebel Alliance,” a jokey nod to Mr. Parscale’s “Death Star,” and it eventually grew to include the proprietors of pages like Occupy Democrats, Call to Activism, The Other 98 Percent and Being Liberal. On the messaging app Signal, the page owners formed a group text that became a kind of rapid-response brain trust for the campaign.

“I had the freedom to go for the jugular,” said Rafael Rivero, a co-founder of Occupy Democrats and Ridin’ With Biden, another big pro-Biden Facebook page.

Mr. Rivero, who was paid by the Biden campaign as a consultant, told me that in addition to cross-posting its content on Occupy Democrats, he often offered the campaign advice based on what was performing well on his pages.

During the Republican National Convention, for example, Mr. Rivero noticed that a meme posted by Ridin’ With Biden about Mr. Trump’s comments on Medicare and Social Security was going viral. He notified the rest of the Rebel Alliance group, and recommended that the campaign borrow the message for Mr. Biden’s official Twitter account.

“It was sort of a big, distributed message test,” Mr. Flaherty said of the Rebel Alliance. “If it was popping through Occupy or any of our other partners, we knew there was heat there.”

These left-wing pages gave the campaign a bigger Facebook audience than it could have reached on its own. But they also allowed Mr. Biden to keep most of his messaging positive, while still tapping into the anger and outrage many Democratic voters felt.

In its internal tests, the Biden campaign found that traditional political ads — professionally produced, slick-looking 30-second spots — were far less effective than impromptu, behind-the-scenes footage and ads that featured regular voters talking directly into their smartphones or webcams about why they were voting for Mr. Biden.

“All our testing showed that higher production value was not better,” said Nathaniel Lubin, a Biden campaign consultant. “The things that were realer, more grainy and cheaper to produce were more credible.”

So the campaign commissioned a series of simple, lo-fi ads targeted at key groups of voters, like a series of self-recorded videos by Biden supporters who didn’t vote in 2016, talking about their regrets.

In addition to hiring traditional Democratic ad firms, the campaign also teamed up with what it called “small-batch creators” — lesser-known producers and digital creators, some of whom had little experience making political ads. Among the small-batch creators it hired: Scotty Wagner, a former art school professor from California, who produced a video about young people who supported Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary sharing things they didn’t know about Mr. Biden, and Jawanza Tucker, a TikTok creator, who made a video styled after a TikTok meme about why he was voting for Mr. Biden.

One of the biggest obstacles the Biden campaign faced was a tsunami of misinformation, much of it amplified by the Trump campaign and its right-wing media allies. There were baseless rumors about Mr. Biden’s health, unfounded questions about the citizenship of Ms. Harris and spurious claims about the business dealings of Mr. Biden’s son Hunter.

The campaign formed an in-house effort to combat these rumors, known as the “Malarkey Factory.” But it picked its battles carefully, using data from voter testing to guide its responses.

When the Hunter Biden laptop story emerged, for example, some Democrats — worried that it would be 2020’s version of the Hillary Clinton email story — suggested that the Biden campaign should forcefully denounce it. But the campaign’s testing found that most voters in its key groups couldn’t follow the complexities of the allegations, and that it wasn’t changing their opinion of Mr. Biden.

“We had running surveys so we could see in real-time how people were responding,” said Caitlin Mitchell, a digital adviser for the Biden campaign. “The two big metrics were: Are you aware of this? And many people had heard of it. The secondary category was: Are you concerned by it? And the clear answer was no.”

The campaign still responded to the reports, and Mr. Biden defended his son on the debate stage. But it stopped short of mounting a full-throated counter-messaging campaign.

When it did respond to misinformation, the Biden team tried to address the root of the narrative. After right-wing influencers posted compilation videos of Mr. Biden stumbling over his words and appearing forgetful, the campaign surveyed voters to try to figure out whether the attempt to paint him as mentally unfit was resonating. It discovered that the real concern for many people wasn’t Mr. Biden’s age, or his health per se, but whether he was an easily manipulated tool of the radical left.

The Biden team identified the voters who were most likely to see those clips and ran a targeted digital ad campaign showing them videos of Mr. Biden speaking lucidly at debates and public events.

Mr. Flaherty, the campaign digital director, said the campaign’s focus on empathy had informed how it treated misinformation: not as a cynical Trump ploy that was swallowed by credulous dupes, but as something that required listening to voters to understand their concerns and worries before fighting back. Ultimately, he said, the campaign’s entire digital strategy — the Malarkey Factory, the TikTok creators and Facebook moms, the Fortnite signs and small-batch creators — was about trying to reach a kinder, gentler version of the internet that it still believed existed.

“It was about how do we throw the incentives of the internet for a bit of a loop?” he said. “We made a decision early that we were going to be authentically Joe Biden online, even when people were saying that was a trap.”





No.31 article:
In Last-Ditch Bid for Brexit Deal, Leaders’ Theatrics Show the Stakes

Boris Johnson and the European Union’s president are preparing their domestic audiences for either a landmark accord requiring compromise or a breakdown that will disrupt cross-channel trade.

LONDON — It can be hard, in the climactic days of a high-stakes negotiation, to separate theatrics from substance — and so it was on Saturday evening, when Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain and the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, hung up after an hourlong phone call.

Ms. von der Leyen said Britain and the European Union would send their negotiators back to the table in a last-ditch effort to close the gaps holding up an agreement on their post-Brexit trading relationship. Mr. Johnson’s aides released a vivid photo of him on the phone, gesturing in the glare of an old-fashioned desk lamp, like a wartime prime minister battling on behalf of his country.

On Monday, the two leaders will speak again to determine whether a deal can be struck by a Dec. 31 deadline. If not, the European Union will begin imposing tariffs on British goods. Four and a half years after Britons voted narrowly to leave the union, the final act of the long-running Brexit drama is at hand.

With the outcome so uncertain, Britain and the European Union are preparing their domestic audiences either for a landmark accord that will require compromise on both sides — or for a breakdown that will disrupt cross-channel trade, pitching both Britain and Europe into uncharted territory as the economies of both have been battered by the pandemic.

Nobody disputes that there are genuine differences between the two sides, ranging from state aid to fishing rights.

“There is still some distance to travel, and the distance has yet to be traveled, because it involves concessions that are painful,” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the political risk consultancy Eurasia Group. “That’s part of the reason both sides have a vested interest in being seen to be fighting.”

That is especially true of Mr. Johnson, who won election last year by promising to “get Brexit done.” Under the terms of the withdrawal agreement he signed with Brussels, Britain formally left the European Union last January. But it agreed to abide by the bloc’s rules and regulations for an 11-month transition period until the two hammered out more permanent trade arrangements.

Now, Mr. Johnson will have to decide whether the European Union’s demands are too much of a threat to his vision of British sovereignty. He knows that striking an accord that is seen as a betrayal of Brexit could be toxic, wrecking his relations with the faction of the Conservative Party that helped him to power. The same Brexiteers ruthlessly disposed of Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May.

After months of grinding negotiations, the two sides are wrestling over the same issues that have divided them from the start: state aid to industries — known as the “level playing field” — and European Union access to British fishing waters.

Fishing has become a charged issue as President Emmanuel Macron of France, facing his own next election in 2022, has pushed for continued access for French fishing fleets. Mr. Johnson has made big promises to his country’s fishermen, who have complained for years about sharing Britain’s waters with continental boats, which in some areas can catch much more than British ones.

Although economically insignificant — its annual contribution to Britain’s economy is less than that of the fashionable London department store Harrods — the fishing industry is politically totemic because of its importance to coastal towns, where there are few other sources of employment.

Last week, the French prime minister, Jean Castex, visited the port of Boulogne-sur-Mer, in France’s far north, to reassure fishermen. The country’s Europe minister, Clément Beaune, warned that Paris would veto any unsatisfactory trade deal. Because Britain sells much of the fish it catches inside the European Union, analysts believe a deal is in the interests of both sides and will therefore not be the cause of a collapse.

Perhaps harder to bridge is the gap over rules on fair competition, an issue where the two sides are still talking past each other.

Mr. Johnson says that since Britain wants only a basic free trade deal — similar to the one Canada struck with the European Union — Britain should not be tied to European rules. But officials in Brussels fear that Britain, as a large economy on Europe’s doorstep, could adopt lower labor or environmental standards, flood the European market and undercut continental companies.

Mr. Johnson appears willing to preserve existing standards that Britain agreed to as a member of the European Union, but not to adopt ones that Brussels might put in place in the future. For him, analysts said, this is a question of sovereignty and independence, which he views as the prime dividend of Brexit.

Yet the fear in continental Europe is that this could effectively give Britain a veto over future European policy. For ambitious leaders like Mr. Macron, that would threaten the sovereignty of the European Union at a time when he and others are seeking a more muscular role in the global economy.

“It’s about the E.U. being a geopolitical platform in the world, having a voice in the competition with China and in its relationship with the new Biden administration in the U.S.,” Mr. Rahman said.

Mr. Johnson must also consider his relations with President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who opposed Brexit.

The Johnson government recently introduced legislation giving it the power to renege on parts of its withdrawal agreement with the European Union that deal with Northern Ireland. That antagonized the Europeans, but it also ruffled Mr. Biden, because such moves could lead to the return of a hard border on the island of Ireland.

Mr. Biden warned Mr. Johnson not to do anything in his Brexit negotiations that would threaten the Good Friday Agreement, which ended decades of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. If London and Brussels strike a trade deal, Mr. Johnson would almost certainly remove the offending language from the legislation.

In the meantime, however, his ministers insist they will go ahead with the Northern Ireland bill, which is scheduled to return to the House of Commons on Monday. That could inject another combustible element into the talks. With time running out, analysts are nervous that any miscalculation could lead to a breakdown in talks with the European Union.

“If both sides were prepared to jump on an equal basis, you could see a deal,” said David Henig, director of the U.K. Trade Policy Project at the European Center for International Political Economy, a research institute.

“Any prime minister would prefer a deal,” Mr. Henig added, “but Boris Johnson has backed himself into a big corner — and while all logic runs toward an agreement, momentum and emotion are running against.”





No.32 article:
Irina Antonova, Grande Dame of Russian Museum World, Dies at 98

During her decades-long reign at Moscow’s main fine arts museum, she provided a window on the outside world for the Soviet people. She died of complications of the coronavirus.

MOSCOW — Irina A. Antonova, a commanding art historian who led the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow for more than a half-century, used it to bring outside culture to isolated Soviet citizens and turned it into a major cultural institution, died on Nov. 30 in that city. She was 98.

The cause was heart failure complicated by a coronavirus infection, the museum said.

Ms. Antonova steered the museum through the rigid and isolationist cultural policies of the Soviet Union and into the period following the fall of Communism. In recent years she expanded the museum to adjacent buildings — sometimes angering their tenants — to accommodate mushrooming exhibitions.

From early on, Ms. Antonova used her inexhaustible energy to build connections with the world’s leading museums. In 1974, she brought the Mona Lisa from the Louvre in Paris. Hundreds of thousands of people lined up to see it, the only queues the Soviet government was proud of at the time. Many knew that with the country’s borders shut, it might be the sole opportunity to see that famous Leonardo da Vinci work during their lifetimes.

She further opened the world to the Soviet people with an exhibition of 100 paintings from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the exhibition “Treasures of Tutankhamen.”

On Ms. Antonova’s watch, the Pushkin museum also exhibited abstract and avant-garde works by Russian and international artists. That was generally unimaginable in a country where an unofficial art show was once broken up with the help of a bulldozer, and whose leader at the time, Nikita S. Khrushchev, while visiting an exhibition of new Soviet art in 1962, shouted that some abstract paintings were made with a “donkey’s tail” and that even his grandson could do better.

In 1981, the museum hosted “Moscow-Paris, 1900-1930,” a landmark exhibition that mixed works by French artists like Matisse and Picasso with highlights of the Russian avant-garde of the time, including works by Chagall, Malevich and Kandinsky. The exhibition showed how well Russian artists fit in with Western European trends, and how they had sometimes helped form those trends.

Thanks to her Bolshevik father, Ms. Antonova had a pedigree that made it easier for her to negotiate with Soviet cultural bureaucrats. Using her charm and wit, she was able to transform what was still largely a collection of plaster casts of famous statues into a comprehensive museum worthy of a major capital.

“We were allowed to do things that were never allowed in other places,” Ms. Antonova said in a documentary film dedicated to the museum’s 100th anniversary. “It was very easy to ban. They didn’t even have to do much, while we were still allowed to do something.”

After the collapse of the Soviet Union, she continued her quest of bringing Russia closer to the outside world with exhibitions of works by Joseph Beuys and Alberto Giacometti, among others.

She also moved to uncover art treasures that had been seized by the Soviet Army in Germany during World War II and hidden in the museum’s depositaries. Critics faulted her for moving slowly and even for failing to acknowledge their existence. But Ms. Antonova argued that it would have been impossible to act during the Soviet period.

In a message of condolence upon her death, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said Ms. Antonova deserved professional and public acclaim, having “served Russian culture with inspiration” as a “devoted expert, enthusiast and educator.”

Irina Aleksandrovna Antonova was born in Moscow on March 20, 1922. Her father, Aleksandr A. Antonov, was an electrician who became the head of a research institute; her mother, Ida M. Heifits, worked in a printing house.

Irina moved with her family to Germany in 1929 when her father was sent to work at the Soviet Embassy. She lived there for four years, learning German and acquiring a taste for European culture.

During the war, she trained as a nurse and cared for Soviet pilots, many of them severely injured, in Moscow hospitals.

She graduated from Moscow State University and was sent to work at the Pushkin museum shortly before the war ended. The museum was founded in 1912 by wealthy merchants; when she arrived, the building had no heating, and its glass roof had collapsed during bombings.

Olga L. Sviblova, a friend and director of the Multimedia Art Museum in Moscow, said in an interview that Ms. Antonova had brought to the museum “a deep conviction that culture and art have no borders: temporary, geographical, national.”

“She defended these convictions under Stalin, Khrushchev, Brezhnev, Gorbachev, and during the 30 years that she lived and worked in new Russia,” Ms. Sviblova added.

In 1961, Ms. Antonova became the first woman appointed director of the museum. She held that post until 2013, when she was named its president and gave up day-to-day administration to concentrate on strategic development. Her overall tenure in various roles spanned 75 years.

During the Soviet era, Ms. Antonova had been lucky to be allowed to travel, but she said that she sometimes cried when leaving a culturally rich Italian city, knowing that it might be her last time there.

In those years, together with the acclaimed Soviet pianist Sviatoslav Richter, Ms. Antonova began hosting a series of concerts inside the museum’s expansive halls every December. The concerts, called December Evenings, remain some of the most sought-after performances in Moscow.

Her husband, the art historian Yevsey I. Rotenberg, died in 2011. She is survived by her son, Boris.

She was succeeded as museum director by Marina D. Loshak, who said, “It is hard to imagine the Pushkin museum without Irina Antonova.”





No.33 article:
Barr Is Said to Be Weighing Whether to Leave Before Trump’s Term Ends

The attorney general’s future came into doubt after he acknowledged that the Justice Department had not found evidence of widespread voter fraud in the president’s election loss.

WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr is considering stepping down before President Trump’s term ends next month, according to three people familiar with his thinking. One said Mr. Barr could announce his departure before the end of the year.

It was not clear whether the attorney general’s deliberations were influenced by Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede his election loss or his fury over Mr. Barr’s acknowledgment last week that the Justice Department uncovered no widespread voting fraud. In the ensuing days, the president refused to say whether he still had confidence in his attorney general.

One of the people insisted that Mr. Barr had been weighing his departure since before last week and that Mr. Trump had not affected the attorney general’s thinking. Another said Mr. Barr had concluded that he had completed the work that he set out to accomplish at the Justice Department.

But the president’s public complaints about the election, including a baseless allegation earlier last week that federal law enforcement had rigged the election against him, are certain to cast a cloud over any early departure by Mr. Barr. By leaving early, Mr. Barr could avoid a confrontation with the president over his refusal to advance Mr. Trump’s efforts to rewrite the election results.

Mr. Barr’s departure would also deprive the president of a cabinet officer who has wielded the power of the Justice Department more deeply in service of a president’s political agenda than any attorney general in a half-century. Conversely, it would please some Trump allies, who have called for Mr. Barr to step down over his refusal to wade further into Mr. Trump’s efforts to overturn the election outcome.

Mr. Barr has not made a final decision, and the prospect of him staying on through Jan. 20 remains a possibility, the people familiar with his thinking cautioned. Should Mr. Barr step down before the end of the Trump administration, the deputy attorney general, Jeffrey A. Rosen, would be expected to lead the Justice Department until President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is sworn in.

A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment. The White House had no comment.

Mr. Barr, 70, is the strongest proponent of presidential power to hold the office of attorney general since Watergate. Soon after he was confirmed in February 2019, he gained Mr. Trump’s trust and his ear. He managed to heal fissures between the White House and the Justice Department that broke open when the president learned that his campaign was under investigation related to Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.

Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr believed that the F.B.I. had abused its power in investigating the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. An independent inspector general has found that the bureau had sufficient reason to open the inquiry and that senior officials there acted without political bias in doing so.

But weeks after taking office, Mr. Barr released a summary of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, that a judge later called distorted and misleading. He presented it in the best possible light for Mr. Trump before the public could read it.

Mr. Barr soon asked John H. Durham, the U.S. attorney in Connecticut, to open an investigation into the Russia inquiry itself to seek out any wrongdoing under the Obama administration.

While that investigation has not yet produced the kind of results that Mr. Trump has explicitly said he would like to see — including criminal charges against former President Barack Obama and Mr. Biden, as well as the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey — Mr. Barr has ensured that Mr. Durham’s work will continue into the next administration. In October, he secretly appointed Mr. Durham a special counsel assigned to seek out any wrongdoing in the course of the Russia investigation.

Mr. Barr revealed that appointment last week at the same time that he said he had not seen evidence that voter fraud had affected the results of the election. Pairing the Durham announcement with that revelation was widely seen as an effort to placate Mr. Trump, who was said to be enraged that Mr. Barr had publicly contradicted him.

Throughout the presidential campaign, Mr. Barr was among the loudest voices warning that mail-in ballots would result in mass election fraud. He routinely claimed in speeches and interviews that the potential for widespread voter fraud was high and posed a grave danger. Mr. Barr’s claims were sometimes false or exaggerated and were widely refuted.

“I don’t have empirical evidence other than the fact that we’ve always had voting fraud. And there always will be people who attempt to do that,” Mr. Barr said in September. He called his conclusions “common sense.”

And after the election, Mr. Barr opened the door to politically charged election fraud investigations, authorizing federal prosecutors to investigate “specific allegations” of voter fraud before results were certified. Typically, the Justice Department waits until after vote totals are certified to investigate such suspicions in order to avoid shaking public confidence in elections.

At the same time, Mr. Barr’s public appearances dwindled, and he did not comment on the results or Mr. Trump’s attempts to overturn the outcome. But as the president’s legal challenges hit a dead end, the pressure on Mr. Barr to speak out increased when Mr. Trump suggested in an interview on Nov. 29 that the Justice Department and the F.B.I. might have been “involved” in some sort of election fraud.

“This is total fraud. And how the F.B.I. and Department of Justice — I don’t know, maybe they’re involved — but how people are allowed to get away with this stuff is unbelievable,” Mr. Trump told the Fox Business host Maria Bartiromo.

Mr. Barr broke his silence a few days later, telling The Associated Press that he had not seen evidence of election fraud on a scale that would have changed the fact that Mr. Biden won.

“To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have effected a different outcome in the election,” he said.

With Mr. Barr’s departure, Mr. Trump would lose the cabinet official who has carried out his agenda on policing, racial unrest, affirmative action and immigration. Unlike officials who have privately denigrated Mr. Trump, department officials and friends say that Mr. Barr agrees with most, if not all, of the president’s positions, as well as his view that he was wronged by the Obama administration.

Mr. Barr himself has taken umbrage at the notion that his actions that helped Mr. Trump’s allies — reducing a sentencing recommendation for the president’s longtime friend Roger J. Stone Jr. on seven felony convictions and seeking to withdraw the prosecution of Michael T. Flynn on a charge of lying to investigators — were done at the president’s behest. He has publicly and privately insisted that he would have made those moves no matter what because he felt they were right.

When Mr. Barr left the Justice Department in 1993 after serving as attorney general under President George Bush, he became the general counsel of the telecommunications company GTE Corp., which eventually became Verizon. That stint at the company ended with a $10.4 million payout and made him a millionaire many times over, making it unlikely that he will take another full-time job after he leaves the department.





No.34 article:
E.U. Privacy Rule Would Rein In the Hunt for Online Child Sexual Abuse

Regulators argue that while abuse imagery on the internet is abhorrent, unchecked scanning for it by tech companies could violate privacy rights. A showdown looms.

Privacy concerns in Europe have led to some of the world’s toughest restrictions on companies like Facebook and Google and the ways they monitor people online.

The crackdown has been widely popular, but the regulatory push is now entangled in the global fight against child exploitation, setting off a fierce debate about how far internet companies should be allowed to go when collecting evidence on their platforms of possible crimes against minors.

A rule scheduled to take effect on Dec. 20 would inhibit the monitoring of email, messaging apps and other digital services in the European Union. It would also restrict the use of software that scans for child sexual abuse imagery and so-called grooming by online predators. The practice would be banned without a court order.

European officials have spent the past several weeks trying to negotiate a deal allowing the detection to continue. But some privacy groups and lawmakers argue that while the criminal activity is abhorrent, scanning for it in personal communications risks violating the privacy rights of Europeans.

“Every time things like these unbelievable crimes are happening, or there is a terrorist attack, it’s very easy to say we have to be strong and we have to restrict rights,” said Birgit Sippel, a German member of the European Parliament. “We have to be very careful.”

Of the more than 52 million photos, videos and other materials related to online child sexual abuse reported between January and September this year, over 2.3 million came from the European Union, according to the U.S. federal clearinghouse for the imagery.

Under the new rule, part of Europe’s ePrivacy Directive, the rate of reports would drop precipitously, because automated scanning is responsible for nearly all of them. Photo- and video-scanning software uses algorithms to compare users’ content with previously identified abuse imagery. Other software targeted at grooming searches for key words and phrases known to be used by predators.

Facebook, the most prolific reporter of child sexual abuse imagery worldwide, said it would stop proactive scanning entirely in the E.U. if the regulation took effect. In an email, Antigone Davis, Facebook’s global head of safety, said the company was “concerned that the new rules as written today would limit our ability to prevent, detect and respond to harm,” but said it was “committed to complying with the updated privacy laws.”

There are also concerns among child protection groups that there could be a domino effect — that Facebook and other companies may cease scanning worldwide, because they do not currently have a legal obligation to do so.

“The issue that we’re talking about is global,” said Julie Cordua, the chief executive of Thorn, a nonprofit that develops and licenses technologies to defend children from online abuse. “What happens in the E.U. will have cascading effects around the world.”

Child protection organizations, international law enforcement agencies and U.S. lawmakers have warned that the rule would be a major setback for global efforts to combat the exploitation of children.

“It would be a total failure if during the pandemic and the lockdowns going on in many countries that we should now forbid the detection of grooming,” said Ylva Johansson, a Swedish member of the European Commission with responsibilities for security strategy and terrorism.

Ms. Johansson and other officials are pushing to find a compromise that would allow the scanning to continue for several years, but under a deadline imposed by previous privacy legislation, they would need to settle on a solution by Dec. 20.

“There is this balance between the privacy of the user and the privacy of the child victim,” she said. “The role for politicians is to find the right balance.”

The New York Times reported in 2019 that online child sexual abuse imagery had grown exponentially in recent years and was rampant across the internet, infesting nearly all major platforms. Perpetrators often leverage multiple services, including cloud storage, messaging apps and social media networks. Online video games are another frequent target, with some abusers grooming hundreds and even thousands of victims while they play.

The new restrictions in Europe can be traced to a policy change in 2018 that brought email, some direct messaging and internet services like Facebook, Gmail and Skype under regulations that would prevent companies from monitoring electronic communications. The rule was scheduled to take effect this month to give companies and governments time to prepare.

With the deadline looming, European officials are facing criticism for waiting until the last minute to resolve an issue with broad implications for privacy and child safety.

Whether a compromise can be reached may depend on the debate over grooming-detection software. Last month, Ms. Sippel proposed a competing rule that would allow scanning for photos and videos but ban the grooming software, although it was unclear if she had enough support in Parliament for that position. A committee is scheduled to consider the proposal on Monday.

Unlike imagery-scanning technology, which is almost 100 percent accurate in identifying illegal photos and videos, grooming software is right about 90 percent of the time, according to Hany Farid, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who assisted on the development of both technologies. That means about a tenth of the material flagged by the grooming software is not illicit.

Dr. Farid compared grooming software used by companies in the United States and Europe to spam-filtering software, which searches for combinations of words and phrases. Technologies that scan for spam and malware would be exempted from the new regulation.

“I don’t hear anybody complaining that my spam filter reads my email,” Dr. Farid said.

When grooming is discovered, there is a major upside compared with the detection of illegal photos and videos: A grooming report is more likely to result in the rescue of a child because the illegal activity is happening in real time.

“The grooming of children for sexual purposes is always about a child on the verge of or in the midst of abuse,” said John Shehan, a vice president at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the U.S. federal clearinghouse that works with technology companies and law enforcement agencies around the world.

As of September, according to the clearinghouse, 1,020 reports of grooming had come from the European Union. Cases of grooming were reported in all 27 E.U. countries and contained many examples of “sextortion” — when an adult poses as a minor to solicit photos or videos, then uses the imagery as blackmail to further exploit the child.

Diego Naranjo, head of policy at European Digital Rights in Brussels, an advocacy group, said the subject was fraught because anyone who questioned the tech companies’ practices was cast as “somebody who doesn’t care about the children.”

Even so, he said, the tech companies and child protection groups had not made a strong enough case for scanning to justify the intrusion on privacy.

“They haven’t given evidence needed to show this is proportionate,” he said. “We don’t open every letter in the mail to see if there is something illegal.”

The European Data Protection Supervisor, an agency that advises on privacy issues, said clearer safeguards were needed for consumers. Privacy is considered a legally protected human right in the European Union. In an opinion published last month, the agency said “confidentiality of communications is a cornerstone of the fundamental rights to respect for private and family life.”

The tech industry has largely stayed out of the public debate.

While Facebook said it would stop proactive scanning in Europe, other companies have remained quiet. In October, Microsoft filed a declaration with authorities saying that its detection software was used solely to identify child abuse and not for any commercial purpose. But a company spokesman would not indicate if it would stop scanning under the new regulations.

Google, which reported 3.6 million illegal photos and videos in 2019, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

Advocacy groups and law enforcement agencies around the world have drawn attention to the rule in recent weeks in hopes of derailing it.

In a statement last month, the European Union Cybercrime Task Force described scanning by companies as an “essential function in the fight against child sexual exploitation and child sexual abuse online,” and warned that stopping it could result in a significant reduction in criminal investigations.

On Thursday, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, announced that he would introduce a resolution urging the E.U. to let companies continue monitoring. “Closing our eyes to child exploitation doesn’t mean it stops,” Mr. Cotton said.

Twelve members of the U.S. House of Representatives, both Democrats and Republicans, made a similar case in a letter last month to the European Parliament.

Ms. Sippel said she was hopeful a compromise could be found. In the meantime, she predicted, the broader debate about how to balance privacy and security will continue.

“You can always go too far, or you cannot go far enough,” she said. “That is what we are debating.”





No.35 article:
As Pandemic Threatens Britain’s Mental Health, These ‘Fishermen’ Fight Back

GAINSBOROUGH, England — The group of seven volunteers in high-visibility vests, equipped with GPS trackers and radios, gathered in the parking lot of a nature preserve on the outskirts of town.

“We’ll take the red route,” Rick Roberts said, shining his flashlight over a map of the woodland, as his breath formed a cloud in the cold, late-November air.

The group fanned out on the trails in teams for the next hour, the beams of their high-power flashlights crisscrossing through the trees outside Gainsborough, a once bustling market town nestled along the winding River Trent in Lincolnshire, in the East Midlands of England. They were there as part of Night Watch, a suicide-prevention initiative started just a few weeks earlier  to monitor known suicide hot spots in the area, and they were looking for people in crisis.

This night was a good one: They found no one.

But the past few weeks have been busy for the Bearded Fishermen, the mental health charity behind the patrol project, and its co-founders, Mr. Roberts and Mick Leyland. With England just emerging from a second lockdown, they have seen a measurable uptick in calls for support and an increasing need for their crisis services as the community grapples with the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.

“The cold and wet weather, long nights, it does affect a lot of people,” Mr. Leyland said. “And being on lockdown as well, it’s even worse.” In one recent week alone, they had responded to a number of crisis calls, including some from people threatening to take their own lives.

With the coronavirus pandemic devastating Britain and two national lockdowns leaving many feeling isolated, experts say there are rising concerns about the mental health and well-being of people across the country. Research has shown a rise in reports of loneliness, a particular concern for young people, difficulties for those with pre-existing mental health issues and an increase in reports of suicidal ideation.

Though there is no recorded uptick in the national suicide rate yet, the risk of suicide among middle-age men remains concerning in Britain, where for decades the group has made up the highest number of suicide deaths.

The impact of the pandemic and its knock-on effects — lockdowns, an economic downturn and social isolation — on mental health have been well documented around the world. And in Britain, which is simultaneously grappling with the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in Europe and a deep recession, health experts worry that the impact could be felt for years to come.

Some neighborhoods in Gainsborough are considered the most deprived in Lincolnshire.

David, 22, who asked that his last name be omitted to protect his privacy, lives in the town and has struggled with depression and alcohol abuse for years.

“I was brought up by my granddad, so I was brought up to think, it doesn’t matter what’s going on, you have to just be strong,” he said. For David, the lockdown has posed new challenges. With his living situation growing more unstable and job opportunities dwindling, the stresses have added up.

“The pandemic has definitely made things a little bit more difficult, because there’s not as many services to access support from face-to-face,” he said, adding that the lack of human connection had been hard. He said that the Bearded Fishermen’s support provided a lifeline, but some days were better than others.

In some ways, Mr. Leyland said, the town feels “forgotten,” often overlooked in funding, even as “ homeless, jobless and low-income residents see their mental health adversely affected by the pandemic.

“There are a lot of people here who have been out of work for a while, who desperately want work,” Mr. Leyland said. “They get to that point where they think, ‘I’m better off not being here.’”

Mr. Leyland and Mr. Roberts officially registered the Bearded Fishermen charity — its name is a nod to their shared love of fishing and to the bushy facial hair they both sport — as the pandemic was just beginning in March. When England entered a second national lockdown, they began the Night Watch patrols.

The pair’s own mental health struggles and path to solace serve as powerful testimony. Both have survived suicide attempts. After being homeless for a time, Mr. Roberts moved to Gainsborough, and the two became friends during weekly fishing outings with a group of other men.

“We both suffer from depression and anxiety, and so fishing was a release for us,” Mr. Roberts said. “We used to sit there just chatting about things that we won’t chat to anyone else about.”

They thought others, particularly men who struggle to open up, could benefit from similar support. Late last year, they began a weekly community group, where men could “hash out their problems” over cups of tea at a local community center, Mr. Leyland said.

When the pandemic made gatherings impossible, they moved their meetings online. Then they set up the call center this summer, providing phone support 24/7. 

“If someone doesn’t want to ring up because they’ve got it in their head that this is what they are doing,” Mr. Leyland said of people considering suicide, the patrols were an opportunity to intervene. The group works with emergency responders and the community to identify hot spots, and also helps search for missing people when their families have nowhere else to turn.

The charity has also found itself increasingly responding to mental health calls at residents’ houses. Last week, workers were called out to the home of a 28-year-old man whose wife said he was threatening to end his life. He had already written a suicide note. They spoke with him before calling the ambulance and police services, and referred him for counseling.

The situation in the Gainsborough area reflects the larger mental health strain across Britain. A report published by the British Journal of Psychiatry in October found an increase in reports of suicidal ideation during the pandemic. Young people, individuals from more socially disadvantaged backgrounds and those with pre-existing mental health problems reported worsening conditions during the first national lockdown in the spring.

Mette Isaksen, a senior researcher and evidence manager at Samaritans, a British mental health charity that was a partner in the research, said that while the study revealed worrying trends, it did not necessarily mean suicides would rise.

“It’s just so important that people know they can get help,” she said. “Suicide is not inevitable.”

The Mental Health Foundation, which has been carrying out a nationwide study of the pandemic’s impact on mental health in Britain, found that reports of loneliness spiked during the first lockdown. The research also noted that, while some negative emotions reported early on — like anxiety, stress and panic — had dropped, feelings of loneliness and isolation had persisted.

Dr. Antonis Kousoulis, the foundation’s research director for England and Wales, said certain groups were of particular concern, including young people, who reported feelings of hopelessness at a markedly higher rate than the rest of population. Many with pre-existing mental health issues have also seen their conditions worsen, he added.

“We are seeing that we are all in the same storm, but we are not all in the same boat,” Dr. Kousoulis said of the findings. 

For Mr. Leyland and Mr. Roberts, the concerns for young people are also front of mind after a series of suicides and attempts in the nearby town of Winterton in recent weeks. With youth clubs closed and activities halted, they said many felt hopeless.

“It’s going to feel like the year that wasn’t,” Mr. Leyland said.

In response, volunteers with the Bearded Fishermen met with a group of teenagers at a makeshift memorial in Winterton for a young man who recently died by suicide, to offer their support.

“You’ve got a whole park fence just covered in flowers,” Mr. Leyland said of the tribute, his voice thick with emotion. He still feels a deep sense of regret over the young man’s death. “It’s like, maybe I could have been here two weeks earlier. But no one knew.”

If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources. If you’re in Britain, call Samaritan’s on 116 123 or visit nhs.uk/conditions/suicide.





No.36 article:
The Sadness of the Trips Not Taken

As a year of disruption closes, those with scrapped travel plans grapple with a sense of loss about places not seen, experiences not had, people not hugged and time that’s impossible to get back.

Auria Abraham is usually a Thanksgiving “nomad,” sometimes hosting friends at the home she shares with her husband and 12-year-old daughter in Brooklyn, other times visiting family.

This year, more than ever, she yearned to spend the holiday in Massachusetts, where a close family member is recovering from an illness. Although she wanted to lend her love and support in person, Ms. Abraham, 52, felt the risk of the coronavirus would have been too high.

“The first week of November, we started to see the numbers rising and I began to have an inkling that maybe this might all be ‘the best-laid plans,’” said Ms. Abraham, the founder of Auria’s Malaysian Kitchen, a manufacturer of sambals and other Malaysian foods. “The hardest part for me was for us to not be there.”

Even her daughter, she said, picked up on her sadness. “She knew that trying to be together for a few days was so necessary this year.”

It’s natural to take stock of the year-that-was when the holidays roll around. Through the lens of travel, 2020 for many has been about — well, nothing and nowhere. Ms. Abraham and other would-have-been-trip-takers are left grappling with a specific loss, not only about places not seen and experiences not had, but also milestones not celebrated, people not hugged and time that’s impossible to get back. They are also questioning whether they have any right to feel sadness, given the widespread illness, death and economic turmoil caused by the virus.

“Generally speaking, it’s not as challenging to lose some things compared to others, but it is possible to grieve the loss of our own future, our own health — anything we consider valuable,” said M. Katherine Shear, the founder and director of the Center for Complicated Grief at the Columbia School of Social Work.

Early this year, Judy Mallory, 71, bought her grandson, Max, a yellow Paddington Bear-inspired raincoat: the perfect accessory for their planned September vacation to London and Belgium.

Along came the pandemic. The trip — which would have been with Ms. Mallory’s son and daughter-in-law — unraveled: no charming Airbnb in London’s Notting Hill, no Eurostar to Brussels, no watching Max, who will turn 2 in February, absorb his first international setting.

“I am seeing my ‘travel life’ pass me by,” said Ms. Mallory, a retired elementary schoolteacher who lives in San Diego. “I’m not saying I’m going to stop traveling when I’m 80, but I do have to worry about safety because of my age, and this felt like a loss — not only the loss of time, but the loss of time with my family.”

Others have also struggled with accepting a new, uncertain future. In January, Susan Romanoff Baum found herself sitting on the beach on Española Island, in the Galápagos, newly retired from the educational resources company she co-founded in 1991.

With the majestic landscape spread out before her — the cerulean waters of Gardner Bay, the splashes of red from the Sally Lightfoot crabs — the future looked bright. “I knew that I wanted to be a citizen of the world and travel, and hopefully spread some good,” said Ms. Baum, 73, who lives in Great River, N.Y.

In February and March, Ms. Baum and her husband of 51 years were set for their third Ethiopia tour with the education nonprofit H2 Empower. There was also a European vacation with friends slated for September and October.

“We’re pretty energetic and fit people,” Ms. Baum said. “But we’re kind of running out of time to do the things we really wanted to do — we wanted to hit the ground running.”

This spring, as her plans collapsed, Ms. Baum tried to keep her sadness and disappointment in check: Infection rates in New York were peaking, hospitals were filling. “How dare I think that my travels were important?” she reminded herself.

Then, a beloved uncle died and Ms. Baum had to attend the funeral in Ohio over Zoom.

“People forget that travel isn’t just about the fun stuff,” she said. “It’s also about being able to be places where you can support one another and be around the people you love.”

That is also true for happy occasions. Emily Alvarez, 33, who lives in the Woodland Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, watched several trips fall prey to the pandemic this year, including a swing through Nice, France, to meet her best friend’s two children for the first time, and her brother and sister-in-law’s baby shower in Orlando, Fla. Most of all, though, Ms. Alvarez had been looking forward to her Cuban-American family’s annual Noche Buena, or Christmas Eve, celebration in her hometown, Miami.

“That’s when traditionally we roast a big pig and we have black beans and rice and everybody’s gathered and dancing,” said Ms. Alvarez, the co-founder of 360 PMI, a website development company.

Ms. Alvarez said she is torn between the feeling of sadness and the feeling that she “dodged a bullet.” With an underlying health condition, she didn’t want to gamble.

“I’d been really hanging onto hope for a long time,” Ms. Alvarez said. “It became real when I finally told my mom, ‘Hey, I’m not going to purchase airline tickets.’”

Janae Melvin, 40, of Kansas City, Kan., also contended with conflicting emotions this year while watching her family’s two vacations fall through.

After qualifying — and fund-raising — for the prestigious American Youth Baseball Hall of Fame Invitational Tournament, Ms. Melvin’s son’s youth baseball team was bound for Cooperstown, N.Y., in June. Ms. Melvin’s 9-year-old daughter’s dance company, meanwhile, had been selected for Dance The World Broadway, a whirlwind of theater-focused events and workshops that would have also brought the family to New York City for the first time.

“People didn’t get to go to their high school graduations,” said Ms. Melvin, a special events coordinator for Perfect Game Midwest, which organizes and promotes youth baseball and fast-pitch tournaments. “People weren’t able to see family. And here I was, worried about a baseball game.”

That sort of reasoning is a common coping mechanism, said Dr. Shear, the grief expert.

“Whenever we’re dealing with painful emotions, it’s natural to wonder whether we can do anything about it,” Dr. Shear said. “And if we can’t, we usually want to do something to help manage the pain. One way is by reminding ourselves that it could have been a lot worse.”

Although Ms. Melvin knows she’ll eventually see the Statue of Liberty, the baseball trip is another matter: Her son will turn 13 in mid-December, and the invitational is limited to 12-year-olds.

“As a parent, it’s hard on your heart,” Ms. Melvin said. “You just don’t want your babies to lose things they’ve worked so hard for.”

Earlier this year, Doreen Agboh front-loaded her courses so she could spend “senior spring” — the last semester of medical school, before residency begins — traveling to Colombia, Costa Rica and elsewhere.

“In general, as a doctor, you’re never going to have four months of time off unless you build it into your life — but then that means no salary,” said Dr. Agboh, 28, now an emergency-medicine resident physician in Chicago. “There will never be this time again where I have the freedom and the ability to do what I want whenever I want. And, for me, that ‘wanting’ was travel.”

Instead, Dr. Agboh spent much of her senior spring grounded in New Jersey, first in her medical-school apartment in Newark, then in her hometown of Westampton, N.J.

“I was grieving a lot,” she said. “I was very sad and anxious — the things that I had guaranteed myself were no longer there.”

When she finishes her residency in three years, Dr. Agboh may pursue a fellowship or start a new job. She could also be married with children. For now, she is focused on working hard and getting to know her new city.

“I’ve accepted that life may never be the same, but that doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t do things that make you happy — we have to be able to find joy,” she said.

The Baums adopted a similar mind-set, reacquainting themselves with their hamlet by bird-watching and soaking in sunrises at the local marina.

“I think there are a lot of facets to losing travel,” Ms. Baum said. “We’ve had to rethink how we’re going to do things, but it doesn’t mean you have to stop learning.”

Ms. Alvarez is wrestling with the fact that she won’t be able to attend her cousin’s wedding in January. But she acknowledged that her connection to her family has remained strong, despite the distance: “I don’t need to go home for Christmas to realize that our relationship is special,” she said.

Ms. Mallory, for her part, is eager to get to London with her grandson.

“I’m really hoping the opportunity comes around,” she said. “Max can have another raincoat if we go — it will probably just have to be a bigger size.”

And although Ms. Abraham, who wasn’t able to make it to Massachusetts for Thanksgiving, also had a family Christmas trip to Malaysia crumble, she still considers herself lucky.

“Every day we say our thank-yous for what we have, and who we have, in our lives — I’m knocking on wood,” she said.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.37 article:
Remembering Rafer Johnson in a Long Year of Lost Sports Legends

The death of the Olympic track star hit our columnist particularly hard because of the connection to him from his early years and the toll of other titans who died this year.

Death stalks us always. It is a bitter truth we tend to shove from our thoughts in typical times. But during a pandemic, we cannot. It is before our eyes daily, in the news, in our communities, sometimes in our homes.

We lose beloved public figures every year, of course. But this year we lost them with an awful and steady rhythm, often for reasons that had nothing to do with the coronavirus.

Ruth Bader Ginsburg. John Lewis. Chadwick Boseman.

Sports was not immune. Who can forget the helicopter crash in January that killed Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna and seven of their friends?

The losses continued. Tom Seaver. Bob Gibson.

Their obituaries reminded us of athletic greatness, better days and brilliance too often overlooked. Joe Morgan, Don Shula and John Thompson. But also Vicki Wood, among the first women to compete in NASCAR. And Nancy Darsch, the brilliant basketball coach. And Eva Szekely, a Jewish swimmer from Hungary who survived the Holocaust and won Olympic gold.

Our personal sports icons have a way of living alongside us, enduring and powerful in our memories. We marvel at their talent, their ability to perform during the tensest moments. Their stories become guides. Their victories and bitter losses become signposts marking the march of time.

Last week, I lost such an icon.

The great decathlete and humanitarian Rafer Johnson died at age 86.

When I read the news, I shuddered. I bowed my head and said a prayer of thanks for the way his story had shaped me — and for the one time we met.

My memories of Rafer Johnson stitch well into my childhood, my teens and beyond.

I remember 1984, sitting in front of a television with my parents as we watched the opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics. Johnson, then 49, strode the stairs of the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to light the Olympic torch.

If you want to be like someone, my father said, reiterating something he had been telling me for years, “be like Rafer Johnson.”

It made sense. Johnson and my father had a fair amount in common. They didn’t know each other, but both were proud Black men who were born during the 1930s and were teens in the dusty interior of California during the 1940s. Both competed as college athletes on the West Coast. My father became the only African-American player on the Oregon Ducks basketball team. At U.C.L.A., Johnson played basketball for John Wooden before focusing on track.

Growing up, as I did, with idealistic parents who crossed the color line to marry in 1954, athletes like Johnson, Jackie Robinson and Arthur Ashe were held up as the ideal. Such reverence was about how these sports stars carried themselves as African-Americans — and the way they blended sports with scholarship, committed to helping others and embraced all parts of humanity.

How perfect that Johnson burst onto the world stage at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. With the Cold War raging and the battle for civil rights gaining steam in the United States, Johnson became the first Black athlete to carry the U.S. flag at the Olympics. The role was a symbolic retort to the Soviet Union, which delighted in highlighting America’s segregation, and a signal that change was on the way.

“Rafer Johnson, the person and the athlete, was viewed as a powerful antidote to the otherwise irrefutable poison of American racism,” David Maraniss writes in “Rome 1960: The Olympics That Changed the World.” “No one could question his sense of purpose or his good will.”

Johnson ended up capturing the gold medal in the decathlon by fending off his close friend and U.C.L.A. training partner, C.K. Yang, who was competing for Taiwan. Their battle was among the most stirring in Olympic history and with the victory, many considered Johnson to be the greatest all-around athlete in the world.

It was Johnson’s last competition, but he hardly shrank from the stage.

After the 1960 Olympics, having met at an awards ceremony, Johnson grew close to Robert F. Kennedy, who, as it happened, was the one politician who held saint-like status in my household.

During Kennedy’s race for the White House in 1968, Johnson was a regular in the candidate’s entourage. “My old friend, if I may, Rafer Johnson, is here,” Kennedy announced to supporters during the joyous speech delivered after his victory in California’s Democratic primary.

Moments later, as the two men passed through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, gunshots flashed. Johnson, who had been just feet behind Kennedy, helped to tackle Sirhan Sirhan and wrestle the assassin’s .22-caliber revolver away.

At Kennedy’s funeral, Johnson was among the pallbearers.

In the weeks that followed, he struggled against the urge to wall himself off. But another Kennedy, Robert’s sister Eunice, drew Johnson into her effort to create the Special Olympics for people with disabilities.

It would become his calling.

“Mrs. Shriver would tell me that ‘even if people had disabilities, they could still be the best they could be,’” Johnson told a reporter. “‘Nobody should be denied that opportunity.’”

“That’s all I needed to hear. I was in.”

For the next five decades, Johnson became a leader in the Special Olympics movement. The role was a glovelike fit for a man who became known as much for helping others as for his exploits in sports.

“Everyone blessed enough to be around Rafer, their lives were improved,” said Valorie Kondos Field, the former U.C.L.A. women’s gymnastics coach and a close friend of Johnson’s. She added, when we spoke last week, that he was always there for those in need, whether on campus or in the community. “But Rafer took it a step further,” she said. “He didn’t just help make you better — he lifted you up when you needed it.”

I needed that lift once.

It was 2014, the only time I met Rafer Johnson.

We were backstage at Royce Hall on the U.C.L.A. campus. He was nearly 80, but still strong and capable of lighting up a room simply by being in it. I was on hand to moderate a panel discussion featuring Johnson that focused on race, sports and the integration of the N.F.L.

I was uneasy. The audience looked huge. And I was about to be onstage with an icon connected to some of my most powerful personal memories. Up close and in person, he even carried himself like my father, whose death a few years earlier was still a fresh wound.

Sensing my nerves, he calmed me, making a particular point to ask about my job, my life and my experience as an athlete. For a moment, he wrapped an arm around my shoulders, just as my father would have done. You’re going to do fine, he said. “This is going to be a great night.”

It was indeed.

I will never forget that evening. Nor will I ever forget Rafer Johnson.

With all that we’ve been through this year, may we hold tight to memories of those we’ve lost, in sports and beyond.





