No.1 article:
Pandemic Reaches Grim Milestone as Biden Moves to Take Charge

With average new infections totaling 111,000 per day, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is confronting a coronavirus pandemic that is surging out of control.

WILMINGTON, Del. — Coronavirus cases surged to a new record on Monday, with the United States now averaging 111,000 cases each day for the past week, a grim milestone amid rising hospitalizations and deaths that cast a shadow on positive news about the effectiveness of a potential vaccine.

As the number of infected Americans passed 10 million and governors struggled to manage the pandemic, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. tried on Monday to use his bully pulpit — the only tool at his disposal until he replaces President Trump in 72 days — to plead for Americans to set aside the bitterness of the 2020 election and wear a mask.

“It doesn’t matter who you voted for, where you stood before Election Day,” Mr. Biden said in Delaware after announcing a Covid-19 advisory board charged with preparing for quick action once he is inaugurated. “It doesn’t matter your party, your point of view. We can save tens of thousands of lives if everyone would just wear a mask for the next few months. Not Democratic or Republican lives — American lives.”

Hours before Mr. Biden’s remarks, the drug maker Pfizer announced that an early analysis of its coronavirus vaccine trial suggested the vaccine was robustly effective in preventing Covid-19, a promising development that sent stock prices soaring. The world has waited anxiously for any positive sign that there will be an end to the pandemic that has killed more than 1.2 million people worldwide.

“It’s extraordinary,” Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert, said on CNN. “It is really a big deal.”

Mr. Biden called the development “excellent news” but cautioned that the country was still “facing a very dark winter.” The average daily death toll in the United States is inching back toward 1,000, and hospitals nationwide are strained with patients. The president-elect said that Americans would need to rely on basic precautions, like wearing masks, to “get back to normal as fast as possible.”

“It’s clear that this vaccine, even if approved, will not be widely available for many months yet to come,” he said. “The challenge before us right now is still immense and growing.”

The sheer breadth of that challenge was striking on Monday: More than 784,000 cases have been announced in the United States over the past week, more than in any other week of the pandemic. The country now averages 900 deaths each day, and 28 states added more cases in the seven-day period ending Sunday than in any other weeklong stretch of the pandemic. No states are reporting sustained reductions in cases.

Coronavirus hospitalizations, perhaps the clearest measure of how many people are severely ill, are approaching record levels set during earlier surges of the pandemic, according to data collected by the Covid Tracking Project. A wave of more than 59,200 patients threatened to overwhelm hospitals in communities across the country on Monday.

The outlook is especially grim in the Midwest and Great Plains, where North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Wisconsin and Nebraska had more new cases per capita over the past week than any others. In the Iowa county that includes Des Moines, more than 400 cases are being identified on an average day. In Milwaukee County, Wis., around 900 new cases are emerging each day. The Nebraska county that includes Omaha is averaging about 460 cases daily, a roughly threefold increase in one month. In Ohio, reports of new cases have risen by 91 percent over the past two weeks.

At the White House, which has been the site of several high-profile outbreaks in recent months, Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development, tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday, according to a spokesman for the agency. He became the latest in a long list of administration officials, including Mr. Trump himself, to contract the virus.

At least three people who attended an election party at the White House last week, including Mr. Carson, have tested positive for the virus. At the event, several hundred people gathered in the East Room for several hours, many of them not wearing masks as they mingled while watching the election returns.

David Bossie, an adviser to Mr. Trump who attended the election night party, tested positive on Sunday, two people familiar with the diagnosis said. Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, tested positive for the virus the day after the election, aides said, although he tried to keep it quiet.

Mr. Carson, a neurosurgeon who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, has defended Mr. Trump’s response to the virus and is a member of the White House virus task force. An aide said he was in “good spirits” but declined to specify his treatments.

Beyond the impact of the virus itself, when Mr. Biden takes office, he will face a sobering economic reality.

Even as the Dow Jones industrial average gained nearly 3 percent on news of the vaccine, the economy remained depressed by the spread of the virus. There were 10 million fewer Americans working in October than in February, according to the Labor Department, and the pace of job growth has slowed every month since June. Airlines and other tourism-related industries are nowhere close to regaining their normal levels of customers. And several indicators suggest consumers have pulled back on dining and some other activities in recent weeks as infections have surged anew.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York raised doubts that the Trump administration could handle vaccine distribution, even if a vaccine did become available in the coming weeks, suggesting that governors would have to step in.

“The Trump administration is rolling out the vaccination plan, and I believe it’s flawed,” Mr. Cuomo said Monday on “Good Morning America” on ABC. “They’re basically going to have the private providers do it, and that’s going to leave out all sorts of communities that were left out the first time when Covid ravaged them.”

Mr. Biden, moving to signal to Americans that he is prepared to take charge after a chaotic year, named a new coronavirus task force headed by a former commissioner of food and drugs, Dr. David Kessler; a former surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy; and a Yale public health expert, Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith.

Mr. Biden will have the difficult task of governing a country that is deeply divided about how much the government should do to slow the virus at the expense of jobs, schooling, recreation, socializing and religious gatherings. The president-elect vowed to “spare no effort” in fighting the virus, with the goal of getting the economy “running at full speed again.”

His comments contrasted Mr. Trump’s. The president has spent the past eight months dismissing or playing down the need for Americans to wear masks, saying frequently — and falsely — that public health experts disagree about masks’ effectiveness.

Vice President Mike Pence, who serves as the chairman of Mr. Trump’s coronavirus task force, convened the group on Monday after meeting about once a week over the past several months. But Mr. Trump, who remains in office until January, is openly at odds with his own virus advisers, including about mask wearing.

The wave of cases sweeping through much of the country remains largely a matter for state and local officials whose citizens are divided over the need for restrictions, impatient to improve the economy and fatigued by the pandemic.

Unlike in the spring, when a vast majority of states issued stay-at-home orders for at least a few weeks, there has been no broad agreement around such sweeping measures. More than half of the states issued mask mandates at some point this year, and some officials have tried targeted shutdowns on bars and indoor dining. But public health officials acknowledge that there is little public appetite for a return to full lockdowns.

That has left governors and mayors racing to sort through new restrictions while trying not to alienate their constituents.

In Utah, Gov. Gary Herbert, a Republican, declared on Sunday that local hospitals were full and that a mask mandate and two-week state of emergency would begin immediately.

“We are in the midst of a serious pandemic,” he said in a videotaped message that was sent to residents’ cellphones. “The number of infections in our state is growing at an alarming rate.”

Mr. Herbert, who has been slow to enact restrictions aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus, announced new rules that would apply statewide, including canceling high school extracurricular activities and limiting social gatherings to within households.

But he did not close bars or restaurants and declined to impose restrictions on churches.

In Utah, the increase in coronavirus cases — more than 2,000 new infections a day — has sent ripples of alarm throughout Salt Lake City. Stores began limiting purchases of certain items like toilet paper and cleaning supplies. Shelves in a local Costco last weekend were low on staples like pasta and flour.

In Nebraska, Gov. Pete Ricketts, a Republican, announced a series of specific restrictions on Monday that stopped short of any sweeping directive. People can still eat indoors at restaurants, but dining will be limited to eight people per table. Masks will be required in some businesses — but only if there is close contact between people for 15 minutes or more. Dancing at weddings will not be allowed — unless people dance at their own tables.

Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois said on Monday that he would impose more stringent restrictions on three regions of the state, including suburbs of Chicago and Southern Illinois, that are seeing surges in coronavirus infections.

“The virus is winning the war by now,” Mr. Pritzker said, urging the public to wear masks. “The situation has worsened considerably in certain areas of the state.”

In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio warned on Monday that the city was “getting dangerously close” to a second wave and said that further lockdowns were possible if New Yorkers did not regain control of the virus. “Unfortunately, it could mean even having to shut down parts of our economy again,” he said.

At Mr. Biden’s closed-door briefing with his Covid advisory board, which took place remotely over a video conference call on Monday, three leaders of the panel provided updates on the pandemic while others members of the group introduced themselves, according to a person familiar with the discussion.

One member, Dr. Rick Bright, is a former top vaccine official in the Trump administration who was ousted as the head of the Department of Health and Human Services’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority. He told lawmakers that officials in the government had failed to heed his warnings about acquiring masks and other supplies.

“Lives were endangered, and I believe lives were lost,” Dr. Bright told a House subcommittee in May.





No.2 article:
Pfizer’s Early Data Shows Vaccine Is More Than 90% Effective

[Here’s what you need to know about Pfizer’s Covid-19 Vaccine.]

The drug maker Pfizer announced on Monday that an early analysis of its coronavirus vaccine trial suggested the vaccine was robustly effective in preventing Covid-19, a promising development as the world has waited anxiously for any positive news about a pandemic that has killed more than 1.2 million people.

Pfizer, which developed the vaccine with the German drugmaker BioNTech, released only sparse details from its clinical trial, based on the first formal review of the data by an outside panel of experts.

The company said that the analysis found that the vaccine was more than 90 percent effective in preventing the disease among trial volunteers who had no evidence of prior coronavirus infection. If the results hold up, that level of protection would put it on par with highly effective childhood vaccines for diseases such as measles. No serious safety concerns have been observed, the company said.

Pfizer plans to ask the Food and Drug Administration for emergency authorization of the two-dose vaccine later this month, after it has collected the recommended two months of safety data. By the end of the year it will have manufactured enough doses to immunize 15 million to 20 million people, company executives have said.

“This is a historical moment,” said Kathrin Jansen, a senior vice president and the head of vaccine research and development at Pfizer. “This was a devastating situation, a pandemic, and we have embarked on a path and a goal that nobody ever has achieved — to come up with a vaccine within a year.”

The news comes just days after Joseph R. Biden Jr. clinched a victory over President Trump in the presidential election. Mr. Trump had repeatedly hinted a vaccine would be ready before Election Day, Nov. 3. This fall, Pfizer’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Bourla, frequently claimed that the company could have some indication of whether the vaccine worked by October, something that did not come to pass.

Stocks surged on the news. The S&amp;P 500 gained 1.2 percent Monday, ending the day just short of a high reached in early September. Shares of companies that stand to gain most from the return of normal activity — like airlines and shopping mall operators — soared, while those whose businesses were well suited under lockdowns were sharply lower.

Independent scientists have cautioned against hyping early results before long-term safety and efficacy data has been collected. And no one knows how long the vaccine’s protection might last. Still, the development makes Pfizer the first company to announce positive results from a late-stage vaccine trial, vaulting it to the front of a frenzied global race that began in January and has unfolded at record-breaking speed.

Eleven vaccines are in late-stage trials, including four in the United States. Pfizer’s progress could bode well for Moderna’s vaccine, which uses similar technology. A Moderna spokesman said that it expected interim findings from its study this month.

Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort to rush a vaccine to market, has promised Pfizer $1.95 billion to deliver 100 million doses to the federal government, which will be given to Americans free of charge. But Dr. Jansen sought to distance the company from Operation Warp Speed and presidential politics, noting that the company — unlike the other vaccine front-runners — did not take any federal money to help pay for research and development.

“We were never part of the Warp Speed,” she said on Sunday. “We have never taken any money from the U.S. government, or from anyone.” On Monday, a spokeswoman for Pfizer clarified that the company is part of Operation Warp Speed as a supplier of a potential coronavirus vaccine.

Dr. Jansen said she learned of the results from the outside panel of experts shortly after 1 p.m. on Sunday, and that the timing was not influenced by the election. “We have always said that science is driving how we conduct ourselves — no politics,” she said.

The data released by Pfizer Monday was delivered in a news release, not a peer-reviewed medical journal. It is not conclusive evidence that the vaccine is safe and effective, and the initial finding of more than 90 percent efficacy could change as the trial goes on.

“We need to see the actual data, and we’re going to need longer-term results,” said Jesse Goodman, a professor of medicine and infectious diseases at Georgetown University. Still, he said, “it’s a testament to hard work and science that we’re getting results that are so good and so fast.”

Other scientists were stunned by the data so far.

“This is really a spectacular number,” said Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University. “I wasn’t expecting it to be this high. I was preparing myself for something like 55 percent.”

If the final vaccine ends up with that level of efficacy, it “would be higher than your regular flu vaccine, and this vaccine could have a serious impact on bending the curve of this outbreak,” said Dr. Saad B. Omer, the director of the Yale Institute for Global Health.

Dr. Jansen said that because the trial is continuing, an independent board reviewing the data has not told her or other company executives other details, such as how many of the people developed mild versus more severe forms of Covid-19 — crucial information that the F.D.A. has said it will need to evaluate any coronavirus vaccine. The agency has also asked for other detailed manufacturing and safety data that could take weeks to review.

Half of the participants received two doses of the vaccine three weeks apart, and half received a placebo. The first analysis was based on 94 volunteers who developed Covid-19. To calculate the efficacy rate, the independent board of experts compared how many of those 94 cases were in the placebo group, and how many were in the vaccinated group. (If all 94 had been in the placebo group, for example, the vaccine would be considered 100 percent effective.) Dr. Jansen said the outside board did not disclose to the company how many of those cases came from each group. But with a rate of more than 90 percent effectiveness, most had to have been in the placebo group.

Dr. Jansen said the global surge in coronavirus infections contributed to the speed with which participants in the trial got infected with the virus. “You can see for yourself, the rates are going up everywhere,” she said. “So we think based on our predictions, it shouldn’t take us very long” to get to 164 cases of Covid-19.

Dr. Paul Offit, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a member of the F.D.A.’s vaccine advisory panel, said the news that Pfizer’s trial was progressing quickly was a good sign for other trials.

“If there’s any silver lining in the fact that our country is currently on fire with this virus, it’s that these trials can reach a conclusion much quicker than otherwise,” he said.

Work on the vaccine began in Mainz, Germany, in late January, when Ugur Sahin, the chief executive and co-founder of BioNTech, read about the virus in the Lancet that filled him with dread. “I almost instantly knew that this would affect us,” Mr. Sahin said. That same day, the first European cases were detected, in France.

Mr. Sahin assembled a 40-person team to work on the vaccine. Many employees canceled vacations and Mr. Sahin authorized overtime pay. They called it Project Lightspeed.

BioNTech used a technology that had never been approved for use in people. It takes genetic material called messenger RNA and injects it into muscle cells, which treat it like instructions for building a protein — a protein found on the surface of the coronavirus. The proteins then stimulate the immune system and are believed to result in long-lasting protection against the virus.

BioNTech quickly identified 20 vaccine candidates, and began testing them on rodents. But the company lacked the experience and resources to rapidly conduct a major clinical trial. So Mr. Sahin called Pfizer. The two companies had been working to develop a flu vaccine since 2018, and within a day of Mr. Sahin calling Dr. Jansen at Pfizer, the companies agreed to partner on a coronavirus vaccine. In mid-March, the companies announced their partnership.

After early human trials, they determined that two vaccine candidates produced a robust immune response, including antibodies against the virus and powerful immune cells known as T cells. They chose the one with fewer side effects to start a trial with more than 30,000 volunteers in the United States, Argentina, Brazil and Germany. In September the company expanded the trial to 44,000 participants.

Even before the trial began, the Trump administration placed a bet that Pfizer and BioNTech would succeed, announcing its advance purchase deal on July 22. At the time, it was the largest such commitment from the U.S. government.

From time to time over the past seven months, while working from his home in the affluent suburb of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Bourla spoke with Mr. Trump, who had tied progress on a vaccine to his election hopes. Dr. Bourla said the president pressed for details about when the vaccine might be ready.

“Every time I spoke with the president I told him that he should not worry about us compromising safety or efficacy, but that we would do it as quickly as science allows us,” he said.

Late this summer, as the president made public pronouncements about a vaccine coming soon, Dr. Bourla boarded a Pfizer jet to Frankfurt to pick up Mr. Sahin. The two men were meeting face-to-face for the first time, but there was little time for pleasantries, or even science.

As they descended toward a factory in Austria that would produce their vaccine, they discussed how to ensure a wary public would trust their vaccine. Days later, Pfizer organized an effort by major drug companies to pledge that any coronavirus vaccine would stand up to scientific scrutiny.

In another move to shore up public confidence and after criticism from outside researchers, Pfizer and other companies took the unusual step of releasing their trial blueprints, known as protocols, revealing typically secret details about how it was evaluating its vaccine.

Two days after Mr. Trump called out Pfizer by name in the first presidential debate, saying it and other vaccine makers were being hampered by politics, Dr. Bourla emailed Pfizer employees.

“We are approaching our goal,” he wrote. “And despite not having any political considerations with our pre-announced date, we find ourselves in the crucible of the U.S. Presidential election.”

The trial’s protocol allowed four interim analyses — early looks that would give the outside board of experts a chance to identify safety concerns, and assess whether the vaccine was working.

Dr. Bourla’s confidence that the trial could yield October results centered on the first interim analysis, which was supposed to have taken place after 32 people in the study developed Covid-19.

However, regulators at the F.D.A. had always been skeptical that data from so few people would be enough to merit an authorization. The company said that, after discussing the matter with the F.D.A., it decided that the virus was spreading fast enough to wait until the pre-scheduled second analysis — at 62 cases. But 94 cases had accrued by the time the company had finished discussions with the agency and the independent board was ready to look at the data on Sunday.

“It turned out we had even far more than what we expected,” Dr. Jansen said. So the outside panel reviewed 94 cases — more than half of the 164 needed to complete the trial.

Wide distribution of Pfizer’s vaccine will be a logistical challenge. Because it is made with mRNA, the doses will need to be kept at ultra cold temperatures. While Pfizer has developed a special cooler to transport the vaccine, equipped with GPS-enabled thermal sensors, it remains unclear where people will receive the shots, and what role the government will play in distribution.

Most experts say the world will need many treatments and vaccines to bring an end to the pandemic.

“There’s a lot at stake for humanity,” Dr. Bourla said.





No.3 article:
Trump Fires Mark Esper, Defense Secretary Who Opposed Use of Troops on U.S. Streets

Mr. Esper’s removal was quickly followed by speculation that the president was not finished: The F.B.I. director and the C.I.A. director could be next, according to administration officials.

WASHINGTON — President Trump fired Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper on Monday, upending the military’s leadership at a time when Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede the election has created a rocky and potentially precarious transition.

Mr. Trump announced the decision on Twitter, writing in an abrupt post that Mr. Esper had been “terminated.”

The president wrote that he was appointing Christopher C. Miller, whom he described as the “highly respected” director of the National Counterterrorism Center, to be the acting defense secretary. Mr. Miller will be the fourth official to lead the Pentagon under Mr. Trump.

Two White House officials said later on Monday that Mr. Trump was not finished, and that Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, and Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. director, could be next in line to be fired. Removing these senior officials — in effect decapitating the nation’s national security bureaucracy — would be without parallel by an outgoing president who has just lost re-election.

Democrats and national security veterans said it was a volatile move in the uncertain time between administrations, particularly by a president who has made clear that he does not want to give up power and that he would be reasserting his waning authority over the most powerful agencies of the government.

“President Trump’s decision to fire Secretary Esper out of spite is not just childish, it’s also reckless,” said Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “It has long been clear that President Trump cares about loyalty above all else, often at the expense of competence, and during a period of presidential transition, competence in government is of the utmost importance.”

Two senior administration officials noted on Monday that Mr. Trump enjoyed firing people and had only two more months to do so. Mr. Esper’s dismissal also gave the president the chance to reclaim some of the postelection headlines, which have been dominated by President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory.

At the Pentagon, Mr. Esper’s departure means that Mr. Miller would — if he lasts — see out the end of the Trump administration. Defense Department officials have privately expressed worries that the president might initiate operations, whether overt or secret, against Iran or other adversaries during his last days in office.

“In my experience, there would only be a few reasons to fire a secretary of defense with 72 days left in an administration,” Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan and a former Pentagon official in the Obama administration, said in a statement.

“One would be incompetence or wrongdoing, which do not seem to be the issue with Secretary Esper,” she said. “A second would be vindictiveness, which would be an irresponsible way to treat our national security. A third would be because the president wants to take actions that he believes his secretary of defense would refuse to take, which would be alarming. Whatever the reason, casting aside a secretary of defense during the volatile days of transition seems to neglect the president’s most important duty: to protect our national security.”

Mr. Esper’s downfall had been expected for months, after he took the rare step of disagreeing publicly with Mr. Trump in June and saying that active-duty military troops should not be sent to control the wave of protests in American cities.

The defense secretary was aware that he was likely to be fired, but Pentagon officials said he hoped to continue serving as long as possible to try to sustain orderly leadership of the Defense Department. Although Mr. Esper had a resignation letter prepared, his allies said he did not think anything was imminent from Mr. Trump on Monday.

But the president expressed his ire in the Oval Office on Monday morning, and the White House gave Mr. Esper only a few minutes’ advance notice of his firing.

In a two-page letter to Mr. Trump obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Esper said, “I serve the country in deference to the Constitution, so I accept your decision to replace me.”

Friends and colleagues of the new acting secretary praised Mr. Miller’s Army Special Forces background and counterterrorism credentials but expressed surprise that he had been elevated to such a senior position, even in a temporary capacity. Mr. Miller does not have the stature to push back on any precipitous actions that Mr. Trump might press in his final weeks in office, colleagues said.

“A move like this probably sends a chill through the senior ranks of the military,” Nicholas J. Rasmussen, a former top counterterrorism official in the Bush and Obama administrations, said in an email. “Not because of anything about Chris Miller personally, though it’s a highly unconventional choice, to be sure. But simply because a move like this contributes to a sense of instability and unstable decision-making at exactly the time when you want to avoid sending that kind of message around the world.”

Mr. Miller, 55, is a former Army Green Beret who participated in the liberation of Kandahar early in the war in Afghanistan. He also previously served as the top counterterrorism policy official in the National Security Council in the Trump White House. After that job, he briefly served in a top counterterrorism policy role at the Pentagon this year.

It was only in August that Mr. Miller replaced Russ Travers, who was the acting head of the counterterrorism center.

Upon his arrival at the Pentagon on Monday afternoon, Mr. Miller tripped on the stairs and said, “That would have been great, broke my ankle on the way in.”

Mr. Miller began his military career as an enlisted infantryman in the Army Reserve in 1983. He also served as a military police officer in the District of Columbia National Guard. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant in 1987 and became an Army Green Beret in 1993.

In addition to his deployment to Afghanistan, he also served in Iraq in 2003, both with the Fifth Special Forces Group.

Rosa Brooks, a Georgetown University law professor and a Defense Department official during the Obama administration, led a group of 100 current and former national security officials and election experts from both parties this year in exercises to simulate the most serious risks to a peaceful transition of power.

That exercise anticipated an 11th-hour switch of the defense secretary, particularly if Mr. Esper was perceived to suggest to the president that he should accept an election loss.

When Mr. Esper broke with Mr. Trump in June on deploying active-duty troops to U.S. cities, the secretary’s spokesman tried to walk back the damage, telling The Times that Mr. Trump did not want to use the Insurrection Act either, or he would have invoked it already. White House officials disagreed.

Mr. Esper, 56, a former secretary of the Army and a former Raytheon executive, became defense secretary in July 2019, after Mr. Trump withdrew the nomination of Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, amid an F.B.I. inquiry into allegations from Mr. Shanahan’s former wife that he had punched her in the stomach. Mr. Shanahan denied the accusations.

Mr. Shanahan had been standing in for Jim Mattis, who resigned as defense secretary in 2018, citing his own differences with the president.

Mr. Esper had taken pains to hew to the Trump line during his tenure. But concern over invoking the Insurrection Act to send troops to quell civil unrest across the country was deep in the Pentagon. Under heavy public criticism, Mr. Esper ultimately broke with the president.

Mr. Trump has referred to Mr. Esper as “Mr. Yesper.” Ironically, it was the defense secretary’s public break with the president during a news conference in June that infuriated Mr. Trump to begin with. Those comments came after Mr. Esper had accompanied Mr. Trump on his walk across Lafayette Square outside the White House, where protesters had been tear-gassed, prompting condemnation from former military and civilian Defense Department officials.

By midsummer, Mr. Esper was walking a fine line to push back on Mr. Trump’s other contentious positions involving the military.

The Pentagon, without once mentioning the word “Confederate,” announced in July that it would essentially ban displays of the Confederate flag on military installations around the world.

After the events in June, Mr. Esper avoided the news media and kept a low profile to prevent being pulled into election politics.

He traveled often beginning in early summer, including overseas trips to North Africa, the Middle East and India. When he did speak in public, either abroad or in Washington, it was often in prerecorded remarks on safe subjects (criticizing China and Russia on the Africa trip) or in friendly places (a session on military readiness at The Heritage Foundation, where Mr. Esper had served as the organization’s chief of staff).

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, called Mr. Esper five minutes before the president’s Twitter post to tell him he had been fired. Mr. Esper was still at the Pentagon cleaning out his desk on Monday afternoon when Mr. Miller arrived, administration officials said. It was unclear if the two men spoke; Mr. Miller met with Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Yet on the single biggest issue of 2020 — the coronavirus pandemic — history may show that Mr. Esper has, by far, outperformed his boss, who largely refused to wear a mask and contracted the coronavirus during an outbreak at the White House. Mr. Esper, by contrast, has strictly adhered to guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on wearing a mask when unable to keep a recommended social distance.

At a Pentagon virtual town-hall-style meeting, the defense secretary responded to a sailor on the aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford who said that the required social distancing aboard the ship was hurting morale.

“It is tedious — I understand that,” Mr. Esper said. “But I think it’s showing, in terms of the Navy’s results in terms of infection rates, that they’re doing a very good job.”





No.4 article:
Republicans Back Trump’s Refusal to Concede, Declining to Recognize Biden

Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, slammed Democrats for expecting the president to quickly concede and said he had every right to pursue legal challenges.

Leading Republicans rallied on Monday around President Trump’s refusal to concede the election, declining to challenge the false narrative that it was stolen from him or to recognize President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory even as party divisions burst into public view.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the top Republican in Congress, threw his support behind Mr. Trump in a sharply worded speech on the Senate floor. He declared that Mr. Trump was “100 percent within his rights” to turn to the legal system to challenge the outcome and hammered Democrats for expecting the president to concede.

In his first public remarks since Mr. Biden was declared the winner, Mr. McConnell celebrated the success of Republicans who won election to the House and the Senate. But in the next breath, he treated the outcome of the presidential election — based on the same ballots that elected those Republicans — as unknown.

“President Trump is 100 percent within his rights to look into allegations of irregularities and weigh his legal options,” said Mr. McConnell, the majority leader. “Let’s not have any lectures about how the president should immediately, cheerfully accept preliminary election results from the same characters who just spent four years refusing to accept the validity of the last election.”

In Georgia, where the continuing vote count showed Mr. Trump losing the state’s electoral votes, Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler — both Republicans now facing January runoffs to keep their seats — took the extraordinary step of calling on the state’s top election official to resign. Declaring Georgia’s handling of the election an “embarrassment” and citing vague “failures” in an echo of Mr. Trump’s evidence-free charges of stolen votes, they said Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state, had failed the state.

Mr. Raffensperger bluntly rejected their calls, declaring the senators’ claims “laughable” and suggesting that they were merely disgruntled because Mr. Trump might lose and their jobs were on the line.

The intraparty feuding underscored how political considerations around Georgia, whose two Senate contests will most likely decide control of the chamber two weeks before Inauguration Day, are driving Republicans’ calculations about how to handle the election results. Republican leaders are reluctant to make any move that might alienate Mr. Trump’s loyal supporters and hurt their candidates’ chances. That includes appearing to bow to the reality that he has lost before the president himself is ready to do so.

There was little sign on Monday that would happen in the near term. Mr. Trump’s team rolled out its latest legal moves to challenge the outcome in key states. And in Washington, Emily W. Murphy, a Trump political appointee and administrator of the General Services Administration, refused to formally recognize Mr. Biden as the president-elect with a letter of “ascertainment,” leaving the country’s transition of power in flux.

Unperturbed, Mr. Biden plunged ahead with a transition operation that was quickly getting off the ground. In Wilmington, Del., he announced the creation of a Covid-19 advisory board and made an urgent plea to Americans to wear face masks to slow the spread of the coronavirus. He fielded a call from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, as a legion of advisers worked quickly to begin lining up candidates to fill top agency posts.

“It doesn’t matter who you voted for, where you stood before Election Day,” Mr. Biden said after meeting with the advisory board. “It doesn’t matter your party, your point of view. We can save tens of thousands of lives if everyone would just wear a mask for the next few months.”

On Capitol Hill, even as many Republicans privately conceded that the president’s claims were outlandish and mostly avoided repeating them, their public statements suggested that they had no intention of forcing Mr. Trump to accept defeat and begin preparing to hand over the reins of power.

They appeared intent on standing by him for a variety of reasons, hoping that the legal process might lend more authority to the final result or that Mr. Trump might simply give in without an intraparty fight.

“I think the election is not over until the votes are counted and the legal challenges are decided,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a close ally of the president who was re-elected to his South Carolina seat, told reporters. “That’s why I would encourage the president not to concede.”

Only a small group of independent-minded Republicans who have records of breaking with Mr. Trump said they had seen enough.

Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a moderate who last week resoundingly won re-election in a state that Mr. Trump lost, congratulated Mr. Biden as the president-elect and stressed the need to begin a transition. Still, even she said that Mr. Trump should be given an opportunity to challenge the results and urged Americans to be patient.

“I know that many are eager to have certainty right now,” Ms. Collins said. “While we have a clear direction, we should continue to respect that process.”

Mr. Trump and his allies intensified their baseless claims that fraud had wrongly tilted the election in Mr. Biden’s favor, filing a new lawsuit challenging the results in select counties where Mr. Biden won in Pennsylvania.

The filing was preceded by a combative press briefing in which the president’s press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, and the Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, alleged that the state election was improperly conducted.

But much of the event included rehashed versions of the arguments Mr. Trump’s team has been making for days, including the false accusation that Democratic-leaning election officials had barred Republican observers from critical counting rooms.

At one point, Fox News cut away from the briefing, with the host Neil Cavuto telling his audience, “I can’t in good countenance keep showing you this,” as he noted that Ms. McEnany had not presented any evidence for her charges of Democratic rigging.

Earlier, a Michigan court rejected a Trump campaign filing challenging the results in the state, calling the motion “defective” because it lacked several requisite pieces of information, including any evidence.

Yet on Capitol Hill, Mr. McConnell and many other Republicans were keeping alive the possibility that Mr. Trump might have legitimate claims. Their approaches were consistent with the way Republicans in Congress have handled Mr. Trump for the last four years, declining to explicitly challenge or contradict the president’s false claims, without necessarily echoing them either.

Rather than openly rebuke the false assertion that the election was stolen, Mr. McConnell instead said that “this process will reach its resolution.”

“Our system will resolve any recounts or litigation,” he said.

But he also took the opportunity to torch Democrats, saying they had no right to expect that Mr. Trump would quickly concede.

“At this time last week, small-business owners in cities across America were boarding up their windows in case President Trump appeared to win and far-left mobs decided to reprise their summertime rioting,” Mr. McConnell said. “Suffice to say, a few legal inquiries from the president do not exactly spell the end of the republic.”

Democrats were outraged. Following Mr. McConnell on the floor, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said flatly that “Joe Biden won this election fair and square.” He called Mr. Trump’s claims “extremely dangerous, extremely poisonous to our democracy” and warned Republican leaders not to give them oxygen.

“Republican leaders must unequivocally condemn the president’s rhetoric and work to ensure the peaceful transfer of power,” Mr. Schumer said.

A group of 30 former Republican lawmakers, including former Representatives Carlos Curbelo of Florida, Barbara Comstock of Virginia, Tom Coleman of Missouri and Bob Inglis of South Carolina, joined a letter calling on Mr. Trump to concede and accept the results of the election.

“We believe the statements by President Trump alleging fraud in the election are efforts to undermine the legitimacy of the election and are unacceptable,” the group wrote. “Every vote should be counted and the final outcome accepted by the participants because public confidence in the outcome of our elections is a bedrock of our democracy.”

Few elected Republicans have voiced such views, or even offered the traditional recognition of Mr. Biden’s victory and called for the country to move forward. In her statement Monday, Ms. Collins joined just a handful of House Republicans and just three other Senate Republicans — Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Ben Sasse of Nebraska — in publicly doing so.

“He loves this country, and I wish him every success,” Ms. Collins said in a statement. “Presidential transitions are important, and the president-elect and the vice president-elect should be given every opportunity to ensure that they are ready to govern on Jan. 20.”

Other Republicans focused instead on defending what they described as Mr. Trump’s right to pursue legal avenues, although some gently suggested that the time had come for his campaign to substantiate its claims. Pressed on Monday, senators pointed to the 2000 election — whose outcome remained uncertain as a prolonged legal fight reached the Supreme Court — as precedent for withholding a concession as court challenges moved forward. They argued that voters, not the press, decide the election outcome.

“There is a process that is available, and I don’t begrudge the president for availing himself of that process,” Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, told reporters on Capitol Hill. “But in the end, they’re going to have to come up with some facts and evidence. But that’s not my job — that’s his campaign’s job.”





No.5 article:
The Conservative Movement Needs a Reckoning

Just as ignorance was strength in George Orwell’s “1984,” shamelessness is virtue in Trump’s G.O.P.

There will be more than a few conservatives who will spend the next 30 years trying to prove the election was stolen. Others will insist Donald Trump would have won save for a deep state, the liberal media and disloyal Never Trumpers. And many will argue that Trump was a successful conservative president who scored important policy victories and broadened the G.O.P. base, only to run aground on a once-in-a-century pandemic that would have wrecked any presidency.

Reality is otherwise. Trump’s loss is entirely on him — albeit in ways that roundly indict the conservative movement that made him its hero.

About the loss: It was narrow when seen narrowly in the vote tallies of battleground states. It was broad when seen broadly.

He lost the Midwestern states that gave him his victory four years ago. He appears to have lost Georgia, which he carried easily four years ago, as well as Arizona, which no sitting Republican president has lost since 1932. What ground he gained among Latino and Black voters, according to early exit poll data, he more than lost among white men, particularly those with college degrees, not to mention seniors.

Certain half-clever conservative commentators have noted that Trump improved on his 2016 vote total by several million votes. But Joe Biden improved on Hillary Clinton’s total by even more.

Most remarkable: Trump lost despite 56 percent of Americans saying they were better off now than they were four years ago, according to a Gallup survey from September. He lost despite Republicans gaining seats in the House, doing well at the state level and having reasonable hopes of holding the Senate. He lost despite the damage that progressive rhetoric about defunding the police and banning fracking did to some Democrats. He lost despite all the usual advantages of incumbency.

Trump lost for two main and mutually reinforcing reasons. The first is that he’s immoral — manifestly, comprehensively and unrepentantly.

The immorality didn’t just repel his political opponents. It enraged them, inspired them, drove them to the polls and gave Biden exactly the opening he needed to run on a winning message of unity and decency.

Trump’s immorality also blinded him to his opportunities. He could have mended fences with his opponents. Instead, he consistently sought to humiliate them in ways that proved self-defeating: Think of John McCain and the Obamacare repeal vote. He could have spent the past eight months as the nation’s consoler in chief, a role nearly every past president has gracefully played. Instead, he went from denier in chief, to quack doctor in chief, to false promise maker in chief — everything, that is, except the steady and compassionate figure the country desperately needed in the White House.

The second reason Trump lost is that conservatives never tried to check his immorality. They rationalized, excused, enabled and ultimately celebrated it. For Trump’s presidency to have had even a faint chance of succeeding, he needed his allies and fellow travelers to provide reality checks and expressions of disapproval, including occasions of outright revolt. What he mainly got was an echo chamber.

The process began before Trump’s election, when conservative pundits thrilled to the idea that Trump’s serial violations of moral and ethical norms were signs of strength and authenticity, as opposed to simple depravity. Just as ignorance was strength in George Orwell’s “1984,” shamelessness became virtue in Trump’s G.O.P. The strategy of moral inversion appeared to be vindicated four years ago, since none of Trump’s successive scandals prevented his victory.

In Trump’s conservative universe, nearly everyone became a lickspittle. Among his fervent supporters, or those who drew better ratings or poll numbers from his presidency, this was at least understandable. They had TV careers to preserve, political jobs to fill, a cult leader to worship.

Less forgivable was the political Manichaeism turned into moral nihilism: When the left is always, definitionally, “worse than the right,” then the right feels entitled to permit itself everything, no matter how badly it trashes conservative policies (outreach to North Korea), betrays conservative principles (trade tariffs), debases the office (arms-for-dirt with Ukraine) or shames the nation (child separation). Stalinists used to justify their crimes in much the same way.

The historic irony here is that these permission slips for Trump served the master ill. Who in the White House had the clout of someone like James Baker to set the president straight and serve as something more than a yes-man? And who in the broader conservative world — someone Trump might have seen on Fox, for instance — could explain that attempting to fool all of the people all of the time was a losing strategy? Did Rupert Murdoch or Mitch McConnell ever put in an admonitory word?

For America, this failure to do much more than flatter, defend and delude Trump these past four years is a blessing. For conservatives, it calls for a reckoning.





No.6 article:
Elsa Raven, ‘Back to the Future’ Character Actress, Dies at 91

She built a steady career of Everywoman roles. Perhaps none of them made a bigger impression than her performance as “Clocktower Lady.”

Elsa Raven, a character actress perhaps best remembered for a small but crucial role in the hit 1985 time-travel comedy “Back to the Future,” in which she establishes a pivotal plot point by lobbying to preserve the local clock tower, died on Monday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 91.

Her agent, David Shaul of the BRS/Gage talent agency, confirmed her death.

Ms. Raven had dozens of film and television credits and appeared on New York and regional stages. She built a steady career of Everywoman roles. The film and television characters she played sometimes didn’t even have names; she was just “Maid” or “Prenatal Nurse” or “Mom” (as in the Season 6 “Seinfeld” episode “The Mom and Pop Store”).

Perhaps none of those performances made a bigger impression than her role as “Clocktower Lady” in “Back to the Future,” the top-grossing movie of 1985. Early in the film her character interrupts the young lovers played by Michael J. Fox and Claudia Wells in mid-kiss, urging them to “save the clock tower.” The mayor, she tells them, holding out a donation can, wants to replace the clock.

“Thirty years ago, lightning struck that clock tower, and the clock hasn’t run since,” she explains. “We at the Hill Valley Preservation Society think it should be preserved exactly the way it is, as part of our history and heritage.”

Later, Mr. Fox’s character, who has traveled back in time to 1955, uses a lightning strike on the tower to propel himself back to his own time.

Ms. Raven was not in the two “Back to the Future” sequels, but she did participate in reunions of the cast and crew from the original film, including one last year at the Hollywood Museum, at which she spoke about the lasting impact of the movie.

“We didn’t know how significant it was going to be,” she told United Press International then. “We knew it was a good, solid movie. Of course we were delighted when it was such a big success. It’s an evergreen. It’s not today. It’s any day.”

Elsa Rabinowitz (she took “Raven” as a stage name) was born on Sept. 21, 1929, in Charleston, S.C., to Louis and Rosalie Rabinowitz. She began her acting career in New York — her family said she worked with Joseph Papp to bring free Shakespeare to Central Park beginning in the late 1950s.

Her first television credits were in small roles in 1963. One of her first larger roles was in the 1979 haunted-house film “The Amityville Horror,” in which she played the real estate agent who sells James Brolin and Margot Kidder’s characters the ill-fated dwelling.

“You’re going to be very happy,” she tells them. “It’s a wonderful house.”

She had recurring roles on the NBC sitcom “Amen” and the CBS crime drama “Wiseguy” in the late 1980s and early ’90s, and on the soap opera “Days of Our Lives.” Her other film credits included “The Moderns” (1988), in which she played Gertrude Stein, “In the Line of Fire” (1993) and “Titanic” (1997). 

In the late 1970s and early ’80s, Ms. Raven made three appearances on the long-running drama “Quincy M.E.,” which starred Jack Klugman as a medical examiner who investigates suspicious deaths.

In 1985, she had another chance to work with Mr. Klugman, this time onstage at the Lawrence Welk Village Theater in Escondido, Calif., in Bernard Slade’s play “Tribute.” Mr. Klugman played Scottie, a man with cancer; she played (as The San Diego Union-Tribune put it) “a doctor who endures hemorrhoid jokes while dragging Scottie off for chemotherapy.”

Ms. Raven, whose four siblings died before her, is survived by 15 nieces and nephews.





No.7 article:
Quotation of the Day: New Restrictions Loom as Possible 2nd Wave Is ‘Dangerously Close’

“We’re tired of Covid, but Covid isn’t tired of us.”

ANDREW M. CUOMO, the governor of New York, on the importance of complying with social distancing and mask rules in hopes of staving off a second wave of infections.





No.8 article:
Biden’s Win Means a Demotion for Netanyahu and Less Focus on Israel

Benjamin Netanyahu has made his closeness to President Trump, who gave him much of what he wanted, central to his political appeal. Things will be different in a Biden administration.

JERUSALEM — President Trump’s defeat has left Israel and its longtime prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, on the receiving end of an abrupt demotion.

Overnight, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory effectively downgraded Israel’s ranking on the list of United States foreign-policy priorities, diminished Mr. Netanyahu’s stature on the global stage and undercut his argument to restive Israeli voters that he remains their indispensable leader.

After four years of doting treatment by Mr. Trump, who lavished Israel with diplomatic prizes and indulged Mr. Netanyahu with geopolitical backing, the credits are rolling on the buddy movie he promoted endlessly to Israeli audiences.

“He’s gone from Trump’s wingman to the guy who polishes the canopy of the F-16,” said Anshel Pfeffer, a Netanyahu biographer.

The stark comedown threatens to weaken Mr. Netanyahu further as he endures abysmal approval ratings, struggles to avoid a third wave of the coronavirus and put Israelis back to work, prepares for trial early next year on felony corruption charges, and contends with an emboldened opposition and embittered allies who have openly talked of joining forces to oust him.

Mr. Netanyahu seemed unusually flummoxed by Mr. Biden’s win: It took him 12 hours after the race was called to offer perfunctory congratulations on Twitter, without naming the office Mr. Biden had won, followed quickly by an effusive expression of gratitude to Mr. Trump. There was speculation across the Israeli political spectrum that Mr. Netanyahu feared retribution from Mr. Trump if he complimented Mr. Biden more wholeheartedly.

Shimrit Meir, an Israeli analyst who is well sourced in Mr. Netanyahu’s circle, said the prime minister and his allies were in “deep denial.”

“The psychological and mental leap that people will have to take is huge,” she said. “And they didn’t prepare themselves. Two weeks ago I wrote an op-ed about how cabinet members were describing in detail all the ways in which Trump was going to win and why Nate Silver was an idiot.”

Most immediately, analysts and officials said, Israel will feel the transition to a Biden administration as a shift of focus away from the conflict with the Palestinians. With a pandemic, a battered economy and deep societal fissures demanding his attention, Mr. Biden, to the extent he looks abroad, is expected to place greater emphasis on tensions with China and Russia, climate change and repairing the frayed trans-Atlantic alliance.

Looming large, however, are questions about Iran. Mr. Biden has spoken of showing Tehran a “path back to diplomacy,” offering to re-enter the Obama administration’s nuclear deal if Iran returns to strict compliance. Mr. Netanyahu crusaded against the agreement and cheered Mr. Trump’s withdrawal from it.

In contrast to Mr. Trump’s favoritism toward Israel, Mr. Biden has promised a return to a more balanced approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

That could mean, analysts and former officials suggested, that if Arab states like Morocco, Oman or Saudi Arabia express willingness to normalize ties with Israel, a Biden administration might encourage them to insist on Israeli concessions to the Palestinians in return.

Still, Mr. Biden is under few illusions, his advisers say, that a settlement is achievable with Mr. Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas, the longtime Palestinian president, still in their jobs.

Instead, the new administration is expected to exert a calming influence. That could mean reopening the American consulate in Jerusalem, which Mr. Trump disbanded, as a quasi-embassy to the Palestinians; reopening a Palestinian diplomatic mission in Washington, and restoring U.S. funding for East Jerusalem hospitals, aid projects on the West Bank and Palestinian refugees.

Israeli officials say they also expect Mr. Biden to work to preserve the viability of a future Palestinian state, which is at odds with Mr. Netanyahu’s moves to expand Jewish settlements on the West Bank or even annex them.

None of those steps is uncomplicated, however, and any of them could create friction with Mr. Netanyahu’s right-wing government and its allies in Congress.

While Palestinians cheered the defeat of Mr. Trump, whom they see as a singular nemesis, they expressed more relief than joy.

Hanan Ashrawi, a senior Palestine Liberation Organization official, said she still expected United States policy to tilt heavily in Israel’s favor. “I don’t think we’re so naïve as to see Biden as our savior,” she said.

Left-leaning Israelis said they expected the Biden administration to seek Palestinian concessions for rolling back Mr. Trump’s punitive diplomatic moves, like changing the practice of compensating Palestinians who serve time in Israeli prisons, including for violent attacks — financial benefits that Israel assails as “pay to slay.”

A Democratic presidency will be a familiar challenge for Mr. Netanyahu, who was prime minister during Bill Clinton’s and Barack Obama’s administrations. But his own standing is much weaker now. And after assuring Israelis he was in “a different league” because of his ties to Mr. Trump, mere diffidence from Mr. Biden could be deeply wounding to Mr. Netanyahu now, analysts said.

Mr. Pfeffer imagined a Biden White House inviting Mr. Netanyahu’s rivals, Defense Minister Benny Gantz and Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi, to Washington for high-profile meetings while snubbing the prime minister.

“Washington is now holding all the cards,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “They don’t have to pick a fight on settlements or Iran. They can do a lot of damage just by ignoring Bibi. The real question is, do Biden and his team have any interest in making Bibi’s life hell?”

There is certainly ample motive: Mr. Netanyahu made enemies of much of the Democratic establishment during the Obama administration, most famously by addressing a joint session of Congress to attack Mr. Obama’s nuclear deal — a speech that Mr. Biden, then vice president, did not attend.

Martin Indyk, a former U.S. ambassador to Israel, wrote acidly on Twitter that while Mr. Netanyahu had indeed known Mr. Biden for nearly 40 years, “it’s also true that @JoeBiden has known @netanyahu for nearly forty years.”

Through allies in right-wing Israeli media, Mr. Netanyahu has portrayed Mr. Biden as beholden to left-wing Democrats who want to punish Israel for its West Bank occupation. But even right-wing Israeli lawmakers say that Mr. Biden cannot be demonized as readily as Mr. Obama, who had little track record in the region and confronted Mr. Netanyahu early on.

Mr. Biden enjoys a decades-old reputation as pro-Israel, and his tales of meeting Golda Meir in the 1970s, and being told by his father that one need not be a Jew to be a Zionist, were long ago committed to memory by Israeli officials.

At the height of tensions with the Obama administration, said Michael Oren, then the Israeli ambassador to Washington, Mr. Biden was Israel’s point of contact in the White House. “He was the good cop, but his good-copness was genuine,” Mr. Oren said.

Nimrod Novik, who was a senior adviser to Shimon Peres, the former Israeli prime minister, and is now a senior fellow of the Israel Policy Forum, said he hoped that Mr. Biden would quietly move to reset relations with Mr. Netanyahu in a productive way.

A discreet emissary, Mr. Novik suggested, could give the Israeli leader a stern message: “The party’s over. I don’t want to fight with you, but I intend to stabilize the situation, and you’re going to help me. Forget about annexation. No surprises. No unilateral anything. And I need something constructive from you as well: Make it easier to shore up the Palestinian Authority before it collapses, and Gaza before it explodes. And I promise you I’ll bring you into the room when I’m discussing Iran.”

The Trump-Netanyahu relationship has been an extraordinary duet between nationalist leaders whose similarities — divisive political tactics, denunciations of “fake news” and playing to working-class voters’ resentments, among other things — have drawn countless comparisons.

But without Mr. Trump performing under the big top, Mr. Netanyahu’s Trumpian behavior could begin to stick out.

On Saturday night, as blue-state Americans danced in the streets, the street outside Mr. Netanyahu’s Jerusalem residence was mobbed, as usual, with protesters demanding his resignation.

Ayala Colle, 53, a farmer from the Negev Desert, said she hoped that “less legitimacy for the craziness in the United States means there’s less legitimacy for the craziness here.”

And Uri Yaakov, 59, said he was tired of Mr. Netanyahu’s pointing to Mr. Trump “to claim that the United States is in his pocket.” He added: “That illusion is over.”





No.9 article:
Business Leaders, Drawn Into Fray by Trump, See Chance to Step Back

From the moment President Trump took office, big businesses were thrust into the culture wars like never before.

In the days after Mr. Trump’s inauguration in 2017, companies protested his temporary ban on all visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Months later, a slew of chief executives objected to the president’s decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Soon after that, a pair of business groups advising the White House disbanded, after Mr. Trump’s equivocating response to the violence in Charlottesville, Va.

It wasn’t the first time major companies had engaged with political issues. During the 1980s, some big corporations stopped doing business with South Africa because of its apartheid system, while others took progressive stances on gay rights. And during the Obama administration, companies, including Salesforce and Bank of America, took stands against laws that would have curtailed transgender rights.

But Mr. Trump’s extreme policies on things as far-flung as immigration and climate change — and the ensuing outrage of employees and customers — made it nearly impossible for big corporations to avoid entering the political fray. Even if they had tried to stay on the sidelines, Mr. Trump wouldn’t let them, as he routinely called for boycotts of companies that he felt had crossed him.

“Over the past four years, companies have had to be even more outspoken with their messages,” said Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, a cloud computing company, and a vocal critic of the president.

But with Joseph R. Biden Jr. now the president-elect, corporate America may be in line for a breather. Instead of having to respond to every incendiary policy or public position from Mr. Trump, companies may soon be able to advance their interests without becoming embroiled in the hurly-burly of partisan politics.

“When it comes to climate change, when it comes to bringing in talent from all around the world, when it comes to making sure our companies are diverse — these are generally things that people across the population believe in,” Mr. Levie said. “They get framed in these ideological terms that make them political when they’re actually not. My hope is that, for the next four years, we can get to a place where we can talk about policies in a more normal way.”

So far, business leaders say they expect to continue speaking out for issues they believe in.

“I don’t think we’re going to see backsliding in the business community,” said Darren Walker, president of the Ford Foundation and a board member at PepsiCo, Ralph Lauren and Square. “The leaders I know are committed to change and know that change is necessary to advance their business interests.”

The last four years may have made companies more confident about publicly addressing sensitive topics, even if it means courting controversy.

“Even though you have half the country who voted for President Trump, this is important to customers, and it’s clearly important to investors,” said Tim Ryan, U.S. chairman and senior partner of the accounting firm PwC, referring to issues like inclusion and the environment.

But the election has also revealed just how popular Mr. Trump remains around the country.

While Mr. Trump never won over a majority of the electorate in his runs for president, 2020 showed that the support for him in 2016 was no fluke. More people voted for Mr. Trump this election — upward of 70 million — than did so four years ago. And they cast their ballots after a first term in which he rolled back environmental protections, denied that systemic racism is a problem and cracked down on immigration, stances that corporate America largely opposes.

“Going into this year’s presidential election, we all knew the U.S. was deeply divided,” BlackRock’s chief executive, Larry Fink, wrote in a note to employees on Wednesday. “These divisions were brewing for years, along a range of social and economic issues, and have been exacerbated by the pandemic. This election, however, has made clear how deep these rifts really are — America is a nation divided.”

However, the prospect of a divided government — should Republicans retain control of the Senate — appeals to businesses for a variety of reasons. Wall Street has warmed to the idea, believing that such a situation would restore credibility to the White House but prevent progressive policies that target businesses from being enacted.

Beyond that, there are economic issues championed by Republicans and Democrats that big business is likely to support. For example, Republicans have been advocating liability protections for companies, to protect them from Covid-related claims, something many big corporations support, while Democrats are eager to invest in infrastructure, another policy favored by corporate America.

“If we get a Republican Senate and a President Biden, I see much more of an opportunity for businesses to pick their spots, to work with both sides, rather than have to take these political stands,” said Ronnie Chatterji, a professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business who studies business and politics.

With Mr. Biden in the White House, some executives expressed hope that some of the issues that had become highly charged in recent years might become much less so. Surveys show broad public support for action to combat climate change and racism, even among supporters of Mr. Trump.

“Without President Trump drawing attention to social and cultural issues, I see a very different role for C.E.O. activism,” Mr. Chatterji said. “The issues that are going to be hot are going to be less the hot-button social issues and more the bread-and-butter economic issues.”

And after four years of an often testy relationship with the Trump administration, executives said the prospect of a Biden presidency could offer the chance to engage with the White House on a range of issues.

“Corporate leaders will find opportunities to partner with the Biden administration in ways they didn’t with the Trump administration,” Mr. Walker said. Such areas could include new investments in 5G cellphone networks, new support for schools and immigration policies that make it easier for companies to hire workers from abroad.

Rich Lesser, chief executive of the Boston Consulting Group, said that in such a situation, “there will be real opportunities for businesses to work productively on a number of issues, whether it’s climate, or the digital divide, or win-win solutions on immigration.”

Until recently, the conventional wisdom had it that investors preferred companies to stay out of politics. That has changed in the Trump era. Mr. Fink has repeatedly said he expects companies to focus not just on profits but also on being good corporate citizens.

And last year, the Business Roundtable, an influential lobbying group that represents large companies, put out a statement arguing that companies should no longer advance only the interests of shareholders. Instead, the group said, they must also invest in their employees, protect the environment and deal fairly and ethically with their suppliers.

Mr. Levie said that after speaking out against Mr. Trump’s travel ban, he had heard from investors who applauded him for taking a stand.

And while Mr. Ryan of PwC said he had received pushback from some employees who accused him of wading into politics, he said that on balance, engaging with social issues had been good for the firm.

“Most times when business have taken stances, consumers have rewarded them,” he said.

That’s not to say there aren’t risks.

In August, Mr. Trump called for a boycott of Goodyear after reports that the company had banned MAGA hats at its workplaces. Over the last several years, Mr. Trump has called for boycotts of the National Football League, Apple, AT&amp;T, Harley-Davidson and many other companies for perceived slights against him or his policies.

And when companies dip into politics, it can also be demoralizing for employees. Vanessa Burbano, a professor at the Columbia Business School, has studied how workers respond when their companies stake out positions on hot button issues. Her research found that employees who don’t agree with a company’s stance can become disillusioned.

That creates a problem for big companies with diverse work forces spread out across red and blue states.

“Companies are cross-national entities,” Ms. Burbano said. “You can’t have one political stand for your employees in California and another one for your employees in Texas.”

But while threats from the president can create an unwelcome news cycle, few companies have walked back their positions as a result of his bluster.

“These issues are ingrained,” said Mindy Lubber, chief executive of Ceres, a nonprofit organization that advocates sustainable business practices. “Companies are seeing that their investors care, their consumers care and their employees care. The wind is finally at our back.”

In the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests that swept the country this summer, many companies have pledged to increase diversity within their ranks. And on climate change, in particular, companies appear to be moving forward with ambitious plans to decrease their carbon footprints and increase their use of renewable energy.

“Three years ago, companies were slow in saying they would commit to a net-zero future,” Ms. Lubber said. “It is not a radical idea today. They’re all moving forward.”





No.10 article:
Stars in a Slog: The Premier League Grind Will Only Get Worse

Injuries, fatigue and concern are already mounting amid an unforgiving schedule. But for Europe’s top teams, the worst is still to come.

MANCHESTER, England — For a moment, it looked as if Jürgen Klopp was taking issue with Pep Guardiola. Klopp, the Liverpool manager, had sought out Guardiola, his Manchester City counterpart, as soon as the final whistle had blown on their teams’ draw on Sunday. Klopp pulled Guardiola in close, and then swept his arm out across the field, gesticulating at two sets of players heaving with exhaustion, his face serious and his brow furrowed.

The rivalry between these clubs is a curious one. Their prominence and potency should, strictly speaking, make it as compelling as defining feuds of the Premier League’s history: Alex Ferguson’s Manchester United against Arsène Wenger’s Arsenal, José Mourinho’s Chelsea against both of those teams and also pretty much everyone else. Liverpool and City are, after all, the two dominant forces of their era.

And yet, even as the teams have traded blows and broken records, the rivalry has always fallen somehow short: a little too petty to feel serious, a little too manufactured to seem authentic. The greatest rivalries are underpinned by a contempt rooted in familiarity; they are arguments conducted in a common language over common ground. Liverpool and Manchester City, with their utterly contrasting priorities and identities, do not have that. Too often, their rivalry feels like little more than shouting.

Except, of course, when it comes to Klopp and Guardiola. Their relationship has always been more than cordial. It would be too far to suggest they are friends; watching them in close quarters, away from the field, it is possible to observe just how different they are as characters. The competition between them, certainly, is intense.

But the respect and admiration goes beyond mere news conference sound bite; the paeans of praise that flow between them over the course of a season are not, as they are often presented, salvos in some ongoing psychological war. Each holds the other in high esteem. Each regards the other as an equal, or at least something close to it.

And so, as Klopp pulled Guardiola in close on Sunday evening, he was not remonstrating or complaining or picking over some old scar. He was, instead, recruiting him to his cause. He was, as it turned out, preaching to the converted. “We are going to fight, him and myself,” Guardiola said, a few minutes later.

What followed, over the next hour or so, was an opening and sustained offensive in that battle. Klopp completed what may be soccer’s unlikeliest triumvirate by offering his backing to the Manchester United manager Ole-Gunnar Solskjaer — very much the Crassus in this story — in his complaint over the Premier League’s television scheduling: United was forced to play in the early slot on Saturday, despite having a Champions League engagement in Turkey last Wednesday.

Then both Klopp and Guardiola, again and again, turned their fire on the Premier League’s decision to plow on through this cramped and compacted season with each team allowed only three substitutions in each game.

Every other major league, as well as the Champions League, has accepted a temporary change to permit five subs, a nod to how intense the schedule has to be to get everything finished in time for the European Championship next summer. The Premier League stands alone in its reverence for tradition. “This country likes to be a little bit special,” Guardiola said, a withering assessment that applies to Britain in ways far beyond how many players there are in a match-day squad.

Klopp accused the Premier League of a “lack of leadership.” He said the decision had forced clubs to endure an “October that was like a December, a November that is like a December, and a December that is still like a December,” in reference to the frantic scheduling of games around Christmas that traditionally defines an English season. Guardiola called the decision to revert to three substitutes incomprehensible. The players, he said, were being given “no break, no rest.” Both demanded that the discussion be held again.

The timing was no accident. Liverpool’s visit to the Etihad — a game that ended in a 1-1 draw, and left Liverpool third and Manchester City 11th in the still-young Premier League table — had been dressed up as the title race’s key early turning point, despite the overwhelming evidence that this season will be decided not by elite showdowns but by a long, attritional slog.

For 45 minutes, it lived up to its ambitious billing, the sort of game one would expect between the two best teams in the country. Liverpool tore at City and City tore at Liverpool as, in the background, the strategies kept shifting and the chess pieces kept moving and the ideas kept whirring.

And then it all stopped. Trent Alexander-Arnold hobbled off injured. Liverpool pulled back, just a little, Klopp’s players aligned in two disciplined banks of four, content to stifle. City had a little more left in the legs and in the lungs, but only a little. With five minutes to play, Guardiola turned and barked at Phil Foden, his explosive young midfielder. Get ready. All or nothing. With three minutes left to play, Foden sat down again. This was no time to gamble.

That was what brought Klopp and Guardiola together: the sense of a showpiece only half-fulfilled, of a mission that could not be willing. It is something that both fear the Premier League will have to get used to. These opening weeks of the season, as Klopp alluded to, have been the easy bit. What comes next is much worse.

There are two threads to the argument against implementing the five substitutes rule. One is that a raft of changes in the second half of a game interrupts its flow — as often happens amid the inconsequential vapidity of international exhibition games — and ruins its spectacle.

The second is that such a shift gives yet another advantage to the elite teams, the ones that can afford to assemble deeper squads. True, they must deal with the demands of playing in European competition, too, but perhaps that just levels the playing field a little? It is a good thing, surely, that quarter of the way through the season, the top four in the Premier League reads Leicester City, Tottenham, Liverpool, Southampton?

The former is easy to contradict: what happened in the second half of Manchester City’s game with Liverpool stands as powerful testimony that there is more than one way to spoil a spectacle.

The latter has more merit. The elite have enough advantages; they do not need another. Five substitutions just means five more international-class players to bring on. The richest teams would, without question, benefit disproportionately from a change. (Though, as a glance at the league tables in Spain and Italy would suggest, perhaps not by that much.)

But that rather ignores what concerns Klopp and Guardiola. Before the end of the year, almost every Premier League team will face the sort of burden that ordinarily is borne only by teams in the Champions League and Europa League: a game every three days, a relentless, unyielding schedule that tests players to the limits.

The injuries and the fatigue will mount. Those teams — Southampton, Aston Villa, Everton — that have lit up the early part of the season will fade as they enter what Wenger always used to call the red zone. Stars will miss games, or, worse, whole stretches of them. For teams without the depth to replace like with like, the results will turn.

And, at the end of it, those left standing will be those who have been able to weather it best, the teams with the deeper squads. That is proof, if anything, of how weighted the status quo is toward the established elite. And that, deep down, is what makes Klopp and Guardiola’s argument compelling. Offering managers more chance to rotate players will not, most likely, alter the outcome very much. Everything is heading in the same direction anyway. All that changes is how many players get injured along the way.





No.11 article:
Dave Grohl, 10-Year-Old Nandi Bushell and One Very Epic Drum Battle

The Foo Fighters leader and the English prodigy struck up a competitive friendship on social media that has brought them, and thousands of music fans, immense joy.

You didn’t need to know every note of Nirvana’s angst-rock classic “In Bloom” to marvel at the spectacle of a little girl drumming along to the song in perfect synchronization last November, her face scrawled over with joy and passion.

The internet is an open playing field for regular people performing impressive feats, and over a couple of years, Nandi Bushell, a resident of Ipswich, England, had attracted a solid audience by expressively covering famous songs by a genre-diverse range of artists including the White Stripes, Billie Eilish and Anderson .Paak. Sometimes her father, John, and brother, Thomas, accompanied her, but Bushell was the star, combining technical virtuosity with bright-eyed showmanship (and some enthusiastic yelling).

The sight of Bushell wailing away immediately impressed Dave Grohl, the Foo Fighters frontman and former Nirvana drummer who played “In Bloom” on the band’s 1991 breakthrough album, “Nevermind.” Grohl is not a social media user, and he only learned about the viral clip when the album’s producer, Butch Vig, sent it to him.

“I watched it in amazement, not only because she was nailing all of the parts, but the way that she would scream when she did her drum rolls,” Grohl said in a recent video interview. “There’s something about seeing the joy and energy of a kid in love with an instrument. She just seemed like a force of nature.”

That said, he experienced it like any piece of content — you watch it, you enjoy it, you pass it on and then move on. But toward the end of the summer, another one of Bushell’s videos made its way to Grohl via a flood of texts from friends around the world. This time, Bushell had prefaced her cover of the 1997 Foo Fighters song “Everlong” with a direct challenge to a drum-off. The rules of a drum-off aren’t formally sanctioned by any governing body, but Bushell’s exhilarated facial expressions and mastery of the song’s breakneck pace meant Grohl was in for a battle, should he choose to accept.

In a separate video interview, Bushell offered a very simple reason for why she decided to call out Grohl: “He’s a drummer, ’cause he drummed in quite a few bands, so why not?” Bushell is 10 years old, and the clarity of her logic — her favorite word might be “epic” — was blessedly refreshing. Grohl is her favorite drummer, and when asked why, she answered, “He thrashes the kit really hard, which I like.”

At the same time, Grohl is also a married father of three gearing up to release Foo Fighters’ 10th studio album, “Medicine at Midnight,” in February, which corresponds with the band’s 25th anniversary. “The one thing we hadn’t really ever done was a danceable party record, and those two things used in the same sentence as the Foo Fighters could be really terrifying,” he said, before citing dance albums by rock artists, such as David Bowie’s “Let’s Dance” and the Rolling Stones’ “Tattoo You.”

Despite his full docket, and after enough peer pressure, Grohl rose to the challenge with a performance of “Dead End Friends” by Them Crooked Vultures, one of those many bands he’s played in over the years. “At first I thought, ‘I’m not going to hit her with something too complicated, because I want this to be fun,’” he said. “I’m not a technical drummer; I am a backyard keg-party, garage jam-band drummer, and that’s the way it is.”

Nonetheless, Bushell volleyed back another astute and overjoyed performance in two days. Grohl conceded defeat, and since then the two have continued playing music for each other. He recorded an original song about Bushell (sample lyric: “She got the power/She got the soul/Gonna save the world with her rock ’n’ roll”); Bushell returned the favor with her own song, “Rock and Grohl.” Cumulatively, the videos have attracted millions of views across YouTube and Twitter, making it a truly rare uncomplicated feel-good story from the last few months.

Part of the appeal is the way their bond transcends generation and geography. Grohl has been musically active since the 1980s, whereas Bushell started drumming when she was 5, in 2015. There’s also something fundamentally charming about a 51-year-old white, male, longtime Angeleno bonding with a 10-year-old multiracial Brit through the power of social media, over a style of music that supposedly matters less than ever.

Rock ’n’ roll is commonly considered to be in cultural decline — in a 2014 review of the Foo Fighters album “Sonic Highways,” The New York Times pop music critic Ben Ratliff declared, “Rock doesn’t lead the discourse anymore.” That diagnosis has grown only more pronounced in more recent years as genres more suited to streaming have flourished, and yet here’s video proof that rock’s elemental pleasures haven’t fully lost their allure among a younger set.

Of course, the pair’s virtual friendship has also taken off during the coronavirus pandemic, which has nearly unilaterally shut down live music around the world and deeply winnowed creative opportunities for working musicians. In a normal year, Foo Fighters would be on tour, and Bushell would still be attending the weekly jam nights around Ipswich, where she honed her skills by playing with adult musicians. Instead they, as well as millions more musicians and music fans, are largely confined to their home and immediate social sphere.

For Grohl, the challenge helped reorient his priorities during this bizarre year. “What I realized was more than any sort of technical contest, this was something that was bringing people a lot of joy at a time where everyone could use a little bit,” he said, adding, “it actually changed the way I look at what my band does in this time.”

Since the challenge began, Foo Fighters have recorded stripped-down live sets and comical fake commercials, all with the goal of maintaining their connection to their audience. “If that’s going to bring people five, 15, 20 minutes of happiness in one day, then that’s what we should be doing,” he said.

Bushell’s father, John, expressed a similar sentiment: “It’s a wonderful experience and our hearts, as parents, are lifted just as much as the people who are watching the videos.”

Toward the end of the interview with Grohl, Bushell joined the video call to finally meet her hero. “I feel like I’m meeting a Beatle,” Grohl said when her face popped onto the screen. (Another coincidence: Both drummers were first attracted to the instrument after listening to the actual Beatles.) The two had never interacted directly before, and as you might expect, Bushell was a little star-struck. But Grohl is regarded as one of the friendliest people in music, and before long, she was showing him around her home, with appearances from the whole family.

Eventually they made plans to write a song together (a fast-tempo one, per Bushell’s request) and play onstage whenever Foo Fighters are allowed to tour in Britain. “But it has to be at the end of the set because you’re going to steal the show,” he said.

As for the next step of the challenge, the ball is in Grohl’s court. “I had an idea for how to respond to your last song, but I haven’t done it yet,” he said. “It’s a big project. I don’t want to give it away, but it’s a good one.”

“I’m looking forward to it,” Bushell replied.





No.12 article:
What Will Trump’s Most Profound Legacy Be? Possibly Climate Damage

President-elect Biden can restore many of the 100-plus environmental regulations that President Trump rolled back, but much of the damage to the climate cannot be reversed.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will use the next four years to try to restore the environmental policies that his predecessor has methodically blown up, but the damage done by the greenhouse gas pollution unleashed by President Trump’s rollbacks may prove to be one of the most profound legacies of his single term.

Most of Mr. Trump’s environmental policies, which erased or loosened nearly 100 rules and regulations on pollution in the air, water and atmosphere, can be reversed, though not immediately. Pollutants like industrial soot and chemicals can have lasting health effects, especially in minority communities where they are often concentrated. But air quality and water clarity can be restored once emissions are put back under control.

That is not true for the global climate. Greenhouse pollution accumulates in the atmosphere, so the heat-trapping gases emitted as a result of loosened regulations will remain for decades, regardless of changes in policy.

“Historically, there is always a pendulum to swing back and forth between Democratic and Republican administrations on the environment, and, theoretically, the environment can recover,” said Jody Freeman, a professor of environmental law at Harvard and a former adviser to the Obama administration. “You can put rules back in place that clean up the air and water. But climate change doesn’t work like that.”

Moreover, Mr. Trump’s rollbacks of emissions policies have come at a critical moment: Over the past four years, the global level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere crossed a long-feared threshold of atmospheric concentration. Now, many of the most damaging effects of climate change, including rising sea levels, deadlier storms, and more devastating heat, droughts and wildfires, are irreversible.

At home, Mr. Biden may find it more difficult than his former boss, President Barack Obama, to use executive authority to create tough, durable climate change rules because the six-justice conservative majority on the Supreme Court is expected to look unfavorably on policies that significantly expand federal agencies’ authority to regulate industry.

And abroad, the influence that the United States once had in climate talks was almost certainly damaged by Mr. Trump’s policy rollbacks and withdrawal from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. Those actions slowed down international efforts to reduce emissions and prompted other governments to follow the American lead in weakening emissions rules, though none have followed the United States out of the agreement.

All of that means that as Mr. Biden works to enact domestic climate change rules and rejoin the Paris accord, emissions attributable to Mr. Trump’s actions will continue, tipping the planet further into a danger zone that scientists say will be much harder to escape.

“Donald Trump has been to climate regulation as General Sherman was to Atlanta,” said Michael Gerrard, director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at the Columbia Law School, referring to the Union general who razed the city during the Civil War. “Hopefully it won’t take as long to rebuild.”

Scientists have long warned that if greenhouse gases in the atmosphere passed 400 parts per million, staving off a warming of 2 degrees Celsius would become far more difficult. The Paris climate accord agreed to that target because above it, the planet is likely locked into a fate of rising sea levels, stronger storms, widespread droughts and heat waves, and mass die-offs of coral reefs.

Carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere first hit 400 parts per million in 2016, the year Mr. Trump was elected. But the president put economic growth above emissions targets, arguing that climate and other environmental regulations were harming job creation.

Economists see little evidence that Mr. Trump’s rollback of climate change rules bolstered the economy. Jobs in the auto sector have been declining since the beginning of 2019, and the trend continued despite the rollback of rules aimed at vehicle pollution from greenhouse gases. Domestic coal production last year dropped to its lowest level since 1978. In September, the French government actually blocked a $7 billion contract to purchase American natural gas, arguing that gas produced without controls on methane leaks was too harmful to the climate.

Meantime, in May, carbon dioxide levels reached 417 parts per million, the highest level recorded in human history.

“Because global emissions in 2020 are so much higher than they were 10 or 20 or 30 years ago, that means that a year wasted in the Trump administration on not acting on climate has much bigger consequences than a year wasted in Ronald Reagan or George W. Bush or Bill Clinton’s administration,” said Michael Wara, a climate and energy expert at Stanford University.

Analysts say that the past four years represented a closing window in which the world’s largest polluting economies, working together, could have charted a path toward slowing the rate of planet-warming emissions. To do that, a scientific report in 2018 found that the world’s economies would need to reduce emissions 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 — and the policies to do so should be implemented rapidly.

Instead, in the largest economy in the world, they began to fray.

“We’ve lost very important time on climate change, which we can ill afford,” said Richard Newell, president of Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan energy and environment-focused research organization in Washington. “There is severe damage. To ignore climate for four years, you can’t put a price on that. It’s a huge issue that needs to be confronted with long-term momentum and extreme dedication, and we have lost that.”

A recent analysis by the Rhodium Group, a nonpartisan research organization, found that if the five largest Trump climate control rollbacks, including rules on carbon dioxide emissions from auto tailpipes and power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas wells, were to go forward, an additional 1.8 billion metric tons of greenhouse gases would be in the atmosphere by 2035. That’s more than the combined energy emissions of Germany, Britain and Canada in one year.

Assuming Mr. Biden succeeds in re-implementing them, two years would pass before those rules would be legally finalized, resulting in still more emissions.

“If Biden puts the rules back in place, the emissions will be lower than the number in our study, but it will still have a lasting effect,” said Hannah Pitt, a co-author of the study.

Speaking of Mr. Trump’s rollback of Obama-era rules on auto-fuel economy, which would have lowered tailpipe emissions of carbon dioxide, she said, “The four years of a Trump administration plus another one or two years to get a rule in place — cars purchased in that period will be less efficient and burn more fossil fuels than they would have otherwise. And those cars can stick around on the road for 10 or 12 years. And once those greenhouse gases are in the atmosphere, they trap heat for decades.”

It is also not certain that Mr. Biden will be able to reinstate all those rules, let alone to make them more stringent. The Biden administration can legally reinstate environmental protections on some public lands that Mr. Trump opened to oil and gas drilling, but using executive authority to write wide-reaching regulations on smokestack and tailpipe emissions may be more problematic with a 6-3 conservative Supreme Court.

Legal experts say that Mr. Trump’s appointment of Justices Neil M. Gorsuch, Brett M. Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett could prove to be a significant part of Mr. Trump’s climate legacy, particularly if Mr. Biden is unable to persuade Congress to enact new climate change laws. Then he would seek, as Mr. Obama did, to use the executive authority of the Environmental Protection Agency to control greenhouse pollution.

“I think the new Supreme Court is going to make it much harder to implement climate policy by regulation than it was four years ago,” Mr. Wara said. “It is not obvious that Biden will be able to just go back to a more stringent version of the Obama regulations. It’s just not that easy when you have a court that looks with much greater suspicion at agencies that exercise executive-branch authority.”

Meantime, Mr. Trump’s actions, domestically and internationally, helped embolden the leaders of some other major economies to weaken their emissions standards.

“There has been a domino effect,” said Laurence Tubiana, who served as France’s chief climate ambassador during the 2015 Paris negotiations. “As Trump has destroyed U.S. climate policy over the past four years, he has caused some other countries to do the same.”

Ms. Tubiana pointed specifically to the president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, who has styled himself after Mr. Trump on climate issues, calling the movement to reduce global warming a plot by “Marxists” to stifle economic growth, and to the prime minister of Australia, Scott Morrison, who, like Mr. Trump, has dismissed the link between climate change and wildfires while promoting the use of coal.

Still, Ms. Tubiana noted that other major economies have moved forward on announcing their plans to reduce emissions, with or without the United States. China, the world’s largest carbon dioxide polluter, recently pledged to eliminate its emissions by 2060. Japan pledged to do the same by 2050.

And, Ms. Tubiana said, a climate-friendly Biden administration will be welcomed back into the global community.

“The entire world is waiting for the U.S. to come back on climate,” she said. “There will be immense relief when it does.”

But Ms. Tubiana and others said it was hard to see how the United States could step back into the climate leadership role it held when Mr. Obama helped forge the Paris Agreement.

“The United States will no longer be seen as the single, individual leader,” she said, but rather will have to work within “a competitive partnership with the E.U. and China. But that may not be a bad thing.”





No.13 article:
Biden Moves to Confront a Pandemic Racing Out of Control

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. named a panel of health care experts to draft policies to address the coronavirus pandemic, as he implored Americans to wear masks.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. moved on Monday to begin assuming responsibility for the surging coronavirus pandemic, naming a string of high-profile scientists — including a former surgeon general and a former Food and Drug Administration commissioner — to advise him on the pandemic and imploring Americans to wear masks.

“A mask is not a political statement, but it’s a good way to start pulling the country together,” Mr. Biden declared in a brief speech from his home city, Wilmington, Del., after meeting with members of his new coronavirus advisory board.

Mr. Biden’s moves were reminiscent of former President Barack Obama’s quick steps after his election in November 2008 to name an economics team as the nation spiraled further into financial crisis. The situation Mr. Biden will inherit will be even more dire: a deadly pandemic wrapped inside a devastating economic downturn, against the backdrop of a deeply divided nation and President Trump’s refusal to accept the election results.

Mr. Biden’s new advisory panel offered a not-so-subtle rebuke of Mr. Trump: Its members include Rick Bright, a vaccine expert who blew the whistle on the Trump administration this spring after he was abruptly removed from his job running a federal medical research agency.

“I am grateful for the opportunity to serve my country &amp; rejoin the fight against COVID-19,” Dr. Bright wrote Monday on Twitter. “With the leadership of President-elect Biden &amp; VP-elect Harris, &amp; their trust in Science, I have no doubt we’ll be able to end the pandemic &amp; save lives. And remember, #WearAMask!”

More than 238,000 Americans have died of Covid-19, and if current trends hold, the number of deaths could double by the time Mr. Biden takes office in January. On Sunday, the United States reached a grim milestone: 10 million Americans have now been infected. Mr. Biden himself has repeatedly warned of a “dark winter” — a phrase he invoked again on Monday, saying, “We’re still facing a very dark winter.”

Mr. Biden’s appearance in Wilmington underscored a difficult truth for the president-elect: While he has vowed to make fighting the pandemic his No. 1 priority as president, he can do little before he is inaugurated Jan. 20 other than use his bully pulpit.

“What he knows is there is almost 10 weeks between now and the inauguration, and those 10 weeks are absolutely critical for the health of this country,” said Kathleen Sebelius, who served as health secretary to Mr. Obama and has advised the Biden team.

Mr. Biden campaigned on a promise of an aggressive federal response to Covid-19 — in contrast with Mr. Trump’s leave-it-to-the states approach. His plan includes appointing a “national supply chain commander” and setting up a “pandemic response board” — ideas that draw heavily from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose big-government policies helped lift the nation out of the Great Depression.

“There’s a need for bold action to fight this pandemic,” Mr. Biden said on Monday. In making his case for wearing masks, he gave a nod to Roosevelt’s wartime stance, saying, “Throughout our history, the history of our nation, we have seen over and over again how small acts add up to enormous achievements.”

The 13 members of his task force include well-known figures with Washington experience, some of whom are familiar faces on television: Dr. Vivek H. Murthy, a former surgeon general; Dr. David A. Kessler, a former F.D.A. commissioner; Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel, a noted bioethicist and brother of former Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago; and Dr. Atul Gawande, a best-selling author.

Mr. Biden reached across parties and across administrations. Dr. Luciana Borio, a vice president at In-Q-Tel, which invests in intelligence technology, was a member of Mr. Trump’s National Security Council until he disbanded the office charged with responding to pandemics and bioterrorism threats. Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, the director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, advised the George W. Bush administration after the 2001 anthrax attacks.

None of the task force members appeared with him on Monday, but Ms. Sebelius said Mr. Biden “is signaling that science is back.”

The panel will have three co-chairmen: Dr. Murthy and Dr. Kessler, who have been advising the Biden campaign since March, and Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, an associate professor at the Yale School of Medicine. All have activist bents.

Dr. Murthy, a son of Indian immigrants who were also physicians, served as surgeon general under Mr. Obama, and briefly under Mr. Trump, who fired Dr. Murthy in April 2017 when he refused to step down.

The first surgeon general of Indian descent, he has for years made headlines for calling gun violence a public health threat; the National Rifle Association urged the Senate not to confirm him.

Dr. Kessler, who led the F.D.A. under Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton, made his name in Washington in the 1990s fighting Big Tobacco.

A Harvard-educated pediatrician who also has a law degree from the University of Chicago, he led the F.D.A. in an unsuccessful push to regulate cigarettes, and steered the agency as it sped up drug approvals and enacted regulations requiring food manufacturers to use standardized nutrition labels and expose “stealth fat” in foods.

Dr. Nunez-Smith, who was raised in St. Thomas, one of the U.S. Virgin Islands, has devoted her career to ending racial disparities in health — a perspective that will inform her work on the coronavirus pandemic, which has disproportionately affected people of color.

At Yale, she is the founding director of a research center devoted to creating health equity for marginalized populations, and is also the founding director of the Pozen-Commonwealth Fund Fellowship in Health Equity Leadership, which trains health care professionals to address disparities in health and medical care.

“Covid-19 is about a virus, but also inequities in health that pre-existed the pandemic,” said Gregg Gonsalves, an assistant professor at the Yale School of Public Health. “Dr. Nunez-Smith has spent her life and career focused on those left behind, forgotten and hit hard” by the coronavirus.

The panel will also include Dr. Eric Goosby, an internationally recognized infectious disease expert who was Mr. Obama’s global AIDS coordinator; Dr. Celine Gounder, a clinical assistant professor at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine; Dr. Julie Morita, the executive vice president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a philanthropy focused on health; Loyce Pace, the executive director and president of Global Health Council; and Dr. Robert Rodriguez, who like Dr. Goosby teaches at the University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine.

Mr. Biden has also vowed to consult Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert. Dr. Fauci, who tries to stay out of politics, did not respond to a text message on Monday asking if Mr. Biden had reached out to him, and refused to answer a question about it during an interview with Wolf Blitzer of CNN. But he offered praise for the vice president’s advisers.

“They’re colleagues of mine, they’re people that I’ve been dealing with for years and years,” he said. “Of course they’re qualified.”





No.14 article:
Old Dogs, New Research and the Secrets of Aging

Dogs go through stages in their life, just as people do, as is obvious to anyone who has watched their stiff-legged, white-muzzled companion rouse themselves to go for one more walk.

Poets from Homer to Pablo Neruda have taken notice. As have folk singers and story tellers. Now science is taking a turn, in the hope that research on how dogs grow and age will help us understand how humans age. And, like the poets before them, scientists are finding parallels between the two species.

Their research so far shows that dogs are similar to us in important ways, like how they act during adolescence and old age, and what happens in their DNA as they get older. They may be what scientists call a “model” for human aging, a species that we can study to learn more about how we age and perhaps how to age better.

Most recently, researchers in Vienna have found that dogs’ personalities change over time. They seem to mellow in the same way that most humans do. The most intriguing part of this study is that like people, some dogs are just born old, which is to say, relatively steady and mature, the kind of pup that just seems ready for a Mr. Rogers cardigan. “That’s professor Spot, to you, thank you, and could we be a little neater when we pour kibble into my dish?”

Mind you, the Vienna study dogs were all Border collies, so I’m a little surprised that any of them were mature. That would suggest a certain calm, a willingness to tilt the head and muse that doesn’t seem to fit the breed, with its desperate desire to be constantly chasing sheep, geese, children or Frisbees.

Another recent paper came to the disturbing conclusion that the calculus of seven dog years for every human year isn’t accurate. To calculate dog years, you must now multiply the natural logarithm of a dog’s age in human years by 16 and then add 31. Is that clear? It’s actually not as hard as it sounds, as long as you have a calculator or internet access. For example the natural log of 6 is 1.8, roughly, which, multiplied by 16 is about 29, which, plus 31, is 60. OK, it’s not that easy, even with the internet.

To bring the comparisons home, the researchers compared an aging Labrador retriever to an aging Tom Hanks. They used a lab because that’s the kind of dog they studied. And they used Tom Hanks, because, well, everybody knows Tom Hanks. For most of us, of course, there is no pleasure in seeing a dog get older, but seeing even a beloved celebrity subject to the irresistible march of time is somehow reassuring. Sometime in the future the A-list may be able to purchase immortality, but not yet.

Scientists also reported recently that adolescent dogs share some of the characteristics of adolescent humans, like, say, “reduced trainability and responsiveness to commands.” Not your children, of course, but those of other parents.

However, teenage dogs don’t torment their actual mothers. They complain to their humans. That means a double whammy for some pet owners. If you happen to have adolescent human children as well as adolescent dogs and you all are stuck at home in close proximity because of a worldwide coronavirus pandemic, then all I can say is more research is required.

Perhaps I shouldn’t be flippant about these research projects. They involve some groundbreaking work and could have potentially important conclusions. Take that paper with the natural logarithms, for example. To come to those conclusions researchers sought patterns of chemical changes in DNA, a process called methylation that doesn’t alter the content of genes, but does change how active they are.

Lab tests can tell how old a human is just from the pattern of methylation. Thanks to this research, the same can be done for dogs. The results will help researchers studying aging in dogs to translate findings to humans. None of this research was done on dogs kept in a laboratory. All of the dogs in the aging comparison study were pet Labrador retrievers and the owners gave permission for blood samples.

Scientists are unsure about whether the physical decline seen in aging in dogs and humans, in fact in all mammals, is related to the process of development in earlier life, or whether the decline is a different process altogether. The researchers found that the pattern of methylation suggested that the same genes may be involved in both processes.

Good methods of comparing dog and human ages are important. Dogs are increasingly seen as good models for human aging because they suffer from it in many of the same ways humans do. As the Dog Aging Project, which is collecting genetic and other information from a vast number of pet dogs, puts it on its website, the goal of the research is “Longer, healthier lives for all dogs … and their humans.”

As an aging human, I can’t fault that approach. In, 2018 the co-director of the project, Daniel. E. L. Promislow at the University of Washington, Seattle, laid out the reasons dogs make a good animal in which to study aging and get results that will help people. In essence, they suffer a lot of similar ailments, such as “obesity, arthritis, hypothyroidism, and diabetes.” That’s not all of course, but when we imagine that an old dog walks funny for the same reasons we do (it hurts), we’re not being anthropomorphic.

Elinor Karlsson at the Broad Institute described her research in genomics and dogs: “One of the things that we’re really interested in is figuring out, first of all, whether there are things in the DNA of dogs that you can find that actually explain why some of them live a remarkably long time.” Those findings might be of use in extending healthy aging in people.

The study on the changes in dog personality over time used Border collies that were part of the Clever Dog Project at the University of Vienna. The Border collies were all companions, volunteered by their human owners. Humans are said to grow more easygoing, stable and agreeable as they age. We can all think of exceptions, probably in our own family, but overall statistics cannot predict the behavior of outliers like Uncle Rasputin or Aunt Ratchet.

How do you test dog personality? The Border collies were put through many different tests. In one, a stranger walks into a room and pets the dog. In another, the owners dress up their dogs in human T-shirts. One-fifth of the dog owners admitted to having done this before, on their own, not for research purposes. In another test, the owners dangle a sausage in front of their dogs just out of reach for a minute or so. Be assured this was approved by an ethics board, and the dogs were fed the sausages once the time was up.

The researchers found that dogs do change as they grow older just as people do. They become less active and less anxious. But one of the authors of the study, Borbalu Turcsan, of Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest, noted that some dogs don’t change as much over time. “People with more mature personality profiles change less as they age,” she said. “And we found exactly the same in the case of dogs.”

The end of aging is of course the same in dog and human. Dogs just get there more quickly. This is one thing that makes the dog a “good model for human aging and mortality,” as Dr. Promislow wrote.

“Dogs age a lot faster than people do,” Dr. Karlsson of the Broad Institute explained. “And so if you want to study aging with the idea that you want to help people within our life span, then you want to be able to study something that’s aging much faster than us. You can learn about it more quickly than waiting eighty years until somebody dies.”

On this point, of course, what is a benefit for science is a great sadness for dog lovers. Dogs die too soon. And it is left to us to witness it, time and again. It’s never easy. As one version of the folk song, “Old Blue,” has it, “Old Blue died and he died so hard, shook the ground in my back yard.”

Here, where the consolations of science fail us, poetry can remind us of what it is about dogs that makes us face the shortness of their lives. In, “A Dog Has Died,” Pablo Neruda describes his dog, in younger days, at the beach:

Joyful, joyful, joyful,

as only dogs know how to be happy

with only the autonomy

of their shameless spirit.





No.15 article:
Norm Crosby, Comedian Who Had a (Wrong) Way With Words, Dies at 93

You might call him the Boston mangler. “I was doing everybody’s material,” he said, before discovering his own shtick and becoming the master of the malaprop.

Norm Crosby, the comedian known as the master of malaprop because he spoke from his diagram and related many funny antidotes, often to a standing ovulation, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 93. 

The cause was heart failure, his daughter-in-law, Maggie Crosby said.

Mr. Crosby started telling jokes in the late 1950s, when comedians often relied on one type of gag for their acts: Don Rickles was the insult comic, Henny Youngman was the king of the one-liners. As a young comedian in New England, Mr. Crosby experimented with those forms and more.

“I was doing everybody’s material,” he said in an interview with the show business historian Kliph Nesteroff in 2010. “I took from Buddy Hackett, Jan Murray and Red Buttons. Everybody!”

Mr. Crosby developed his own shtick after he was offered a job at the popular New York City nightclub the Latin Quarter, in Times Square.

“I was taking jokes from Ed Sullivan every week,” Mr. Crosby said in an interview for this obituary in 2013. “I couldn’t go to New York and do the stuff I was doing.”

He was trying to develop new material when a club owner made an offhand comment about one of the club’s cabaret dancers. The owner, who had given the young woman a ride, “came into my dressing room, and he said to me, ‘Find out if the girl is staying over or if she communicates,’” Mr. Crosby recalled.

“I said, ‘My God, a lot of people talk like that. Maybe that would be fun.’ So I started the play on words.”

He tried it in Massachusetts, he added, “and the places I worked, unfortunately, people didn’t get the difference.”

Because of the particulars of his Latin Quarter booking, Mr. Crosby’s routine was not an immediate breakthrough with Times Square audiences, either. He started out performing 12-minute filler sets between stage acts during his weeklong engagement, and his jokes were largely ignored. “I was on for five minutes before anybody knew I was out there,” he said.

At the end of the week, a dejected Mr. Crosby packed his bags and went to pick up his check from the manager, who apologized for the difficult assignment and promised him a better slot in the show. Once audiences had a chance to get the joke, he was a hit. He stayed at the Latin Quarter for 18 weeks, after which the prestigious William Morris Agency began representing him.

Mr. Crosby was soon opening for the singer Robert Goulet at the Concord Hotel in the Catskills, and Mr. Goulet and his agent enjoyed Mr. Crosby’s act so much that they booked him as the opening act on a nationwide tour. The two worked together for the next three years. Mr. Crosby then toured with the singer Tom Jones for a time before becoming a headliner in his own right.

He appeared on the television shows of Ed Sullivan, Johnny Carson and Merv Griffin and on comedy series like “The Love Boat.” From 1978 to 1981, he hosted “The Comedy Shop,” a syndicated showcase for young stand-up comedians, and essentially played himself in the 1988-89 Showtime sitcom “The Boys,” about a club that closely resembled the Friars Club in New York, where he often took part in celebrity roasts. Mr. Crosby became a regular on Dean Martin’s televised roasts, where he skewered, among others, Senator Barry Goldwater, Kirk Douglas (“a serious equestrian performer”) and Carroll O’Connor (“very deceptive about all kinds of people; as a matter of fact he has extra sensible reception”).

Speaking of Senator Goldwater, he said, “When President Johnson declared war on puberty, it was Senator Goldwater who said, and I quote, ‘Wherever there is unemployment, you’ll find men out of work.’”

He was a pitchman in the late 1970s and early ’80s for Anheuser-Busch’s Natural Light beer, appearing in commercials with Mickey Mantle, Henny Youngman and Joe Frazier.

In one commercial, he declared, “I always keep Natural on hand while I watch these athletes perspiring to achieve victory, ’cause these sporting computations make me so dehybernated.”

Mr. Crosby was a frequent participant in Jerry Lewis’s muscular dystrophy telethon, but that was not his only charitable cause: Mr. Crosby, who was hearing-impaired, was the first national chairman of the Council for Better Speech and Hearing, in 1979.

In 1982, his name was, as he might have put it, immobilized with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, placed between those of Jack Benny and Red Skelton.

Norman Lawrence Crosby was born on Sept. 15, 1927, in Boston. Known as a class card, he graduated from Dorchester High School and then studied advertising illustration at the Massachusetts School of Art but didn’t graduate, enlisting instead as a radar operator in the Coast Guard. 

His hearing was permanently damaged from depth charges that exploded while he was on anti-submarine patrol in the North Atlantic during World War II, although he did not notice hearing problems until long after he had returned home.

After the war, Mr. Crosby worked in advertising for a chain of 40 or so women’s shoe stores in the Boston area and eventually became its advertising manager. In the meantime he dabbled in comedy at small clubs and restaurants in New England, becoming popular in the region before his big opportunity at the Latin Quarter.

He married Joan Foley, a nightclub dancer and former Rockette, in 1967. Besides his wife, survivors include their two sons, Andrew and Daniel, and two grandchildren.

Mr. Crosby continued to perform on cruise ships and in Las Vegas well into his 80s and appeared sporadically on television. He also had small parts in Adam Sandler’s “Grown Ups 2” and other movies.

Mr. Crosby was not the only person known for mangling words: So, too, was the 43rd president, George W. Bush. Mr. Bush’s misstatements reminded some people of Mr. Crosby’s malaprops, even though they were not part of a routine.

“Everybody was saying, ‘Hey! He’s doing your act,’” Mr. Crosby said.





No.16 article:
How the Suburbs Moved Away From Trump





No.17 article:
Treasury Secretary Warren? Progressives Line Up to Press Their Agenda on Biden

With control of the Senate unclear, liberal Democrats are trying to figure out how to achieve their policy goals through the White House.

They have an extensive blacklist for possible Biden appointees they do not like. They want to elevate allies like Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont to premier government posts. And they are even considering the possibility of bypassing Senate approval to fill executive branch roles. 

As progressives have watched the Senate potentially slip out of reach this week, they have begun preparing to unleash a furious campaign to pressure President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. over personnel and priorities — even as they wrestle with the results of the election and the possible need to be more realistic about expectations over the next two years.

“For those of us who focus on governance and economic and social justice, this election is a dismal rubber stamp of the unacceptable status quo,” said Larry Cohen, the chairman of Our Revolution, a progressive group. “Black, brown and white working Americans see their hopes of real reform evaporate for now, even while cheering the victory over Trump.”

The left is now pinning its hopes on the Democrats winning two Senate runoff elections in Georgia in January. Progressive groups including the Sunrise Movement, an organization of young climate activists, are already drawing up plans to mobilize their networks and provide organizing muscle to the Democratic campaigns there.

But as election results have trickled in, excitement in progressive circles for their federal agenda has given way to disappointment and even anger. Despite the surging energy on the left, a moderate is poised to sit in the White House. And unless Democrats can pick up both Georgia seats, Republicans will almost certainly hold the Senate, which may drastically limit what a Biden administration can accomplish in terms of legislation, presidential appointments and judicial nominations.

Far from the mandate they had sought, progressives are now trying to figure out whether they can achieve even their less ambitious policy goals.

“Everything’s harder with a Republican Senate,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, the co-chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. “There’s just no question about that.”

Since the polls closed last week, frustration on the left has at times spilled into the open. Some progressives have second-guessed the Democratic establishment’s messaging strategy and its approach to Senate races, which revolved around backing moderate candidates who officials thought could appeal to independents and Republicans disaffected with President Trump. And there has been public questioning of Democratic efforts to court Latino voters after Mr. Biden’s losses in Texas and Florida.

“I need my colleagues to understand that we are not the enemy,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, a leading progressive, in an interview with The Times. “And that their base is not the enemy. That the Movement for Black Lives is not the enemy, that Medicare for all is not the enemy. This isn’t even just about winning an argument. It’s that if they keep going after the wrong thing, I mean, they’re just setting up their own obsolescence.”

Since the race in Pennsylvania was called for Mr. Biden on Saturday, clinching the election, some groups have already warned him about backsliding on his commitment to progressive policies.

Still, most liberals recognized that Mr. Biden was almost certain not to support all of their priorities or accept all of their proposals, regardless of the outcome in the Senate. They were, for instance, under no illusion that he would appoint progressives to every cabinet position or pass policies like “Medicare for all.”

Yet their more downbeat mood is a drastic shift from just days ago. Buoyed by a new class of progressives heading to the House of Representatives — including Jamaal Bowman, in a New York district that includes parts of the Bronx and Westchester County, and Cori Bush in St. Louis — the party’s left flank was planning a three-pronged strategy to push Mr. Biden, should he win, on personnel, legislation and institutional change.

They were envisioning a wide-ranging legislative agenda that included plans to expand access to health care, create jobs and combat climate change. They also dreamed of structural changes to the political system such as statehood for Washington, D.C., eliminating the legislative filibuster and increasing the number of justices on the Supreme Court.

Many had been cautiously optimistic that Mr. Biden’s administration would at least be receptive to their proposals, pointing in particular to his leftward shift since the primaries on issues like climate, health care and education. Progressives also believed that the coronavirus crisis made Mr. Biden more inclined to consider a broad agenda that responds to the extraordinary circumstances.

But as they adjust to the possible new reality of divided government, many progressive groups and leaders are focusing their attention on Mr. Biden’s executive branch appointments with intense urgency, viewing these positions as gatekeepers, in effect, for vast numbers of policy.

In recent weeks, they have called on Mr. Biden not to appoint any corporate lobbyists or c-suite corporate executives to executive branch positions. A group called the Revolving Door Project is already drawing up a “blacklist” of possible Biden appointments that progressives may view as problematic.

“We want appointees who will wake up trying to figure out, What can I do to make this government work for people?” said Jeff Hauser, the executive director of the Revolving Door Project. “There are allies who focus more on who they do want. We focus on who we don’t want.”

Some on the left, including Mr. Hauser, have already expressed opposition to two of Mr. Biden’s potential choices for Treasury secretary: Lael Brainard, a Federal Reserve governor, in part for her record on trade and currency manipulation in China; and Gov. Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island, a former venture capitalist, whose overhaul of her state’s public pension system made her deeply unpopular with some labor unions.

Instead, many liberals are pushing Mr. Biden both in private and public to name Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts to the position — a post that Ms. Warren herself wants, according to a person familiar with her thinking (a spokeswoman for Ms. Warren declined to comment). Others on the progressives’ shortlist for the position include Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served as deputy secretary of the Treasury under President Barack Obama, and Janet Yellen, the former chair of the Federal Reserve.

Mr. Sanders is interested in serving as labor secretary, according to a person close to the senator, and his camp and Mr. Biden’s team have seriously been discussing the possibility since the Vermont senator dropped out of the presidential race in April. There is no deal between the camps, and it is still unclear what role Mr. Sanders may want to play in a Biden administration.

Appointing progressive senators like Ms. Warren or Mr. Sanders to his cabinet could complicate things for Mr. Biden because both come from states led by Republican governors; Democrats would want to make sure that any replacements would caucus with the Democrats to keep the balance of the Senate intact.

Mr. Sanders’s operation has also offered the Biden transition team lists of preferred names for cabinet positions and prominent jobs in the administration, including Keith Ellison, the Minnesota attorney general, for U.S. attorney general and Julián Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio, for housing secretary, a position he held in the Obama administration.

Other measures are in the works as well. The Sunrise Movement is planning to push Mr. Biden to form a new position, reporting directly to the president, that will be responsible for coordinating and mobilizing government agencies to address climate change.

Progressives are also compiling extensive lists of recommendations for a vast array of other key posts. The Progressive Change Institute, in collaboration with roughly 40 public interest, environmental and racial justice groups, has been assembling an extensive database of personnel who could stock a potential Democratic administration.

The database, which now has from 500 to 600 names, covers everything from cabinet positions to under secretary posts in more obscure executive-branch offices and bureaus, like the president of the Export-Import Bank and the director of the Patent and Trademark Office. The group hopes to deliver the list to the Biden transition team by the end of the week.

Progressives recognize that their work on appointments and policy may be much harder if there is a Republican Senate, as appears increasingly likely. It may not confirm appointments to key government posts whom Republicans view as too far left, a course of action that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has already suggested he would pursue.

And without enough Democratic allies in the Senate, there is almost no chance that the chamber will pass even the agenda that Mr. Biden supported in the run-up to the election, such as lowering the eligibility age for Medicare to 60 from 65.

“If Mitch McConnell was ultimately to control the Senate, it would dramatically lower the ceiling of what’s possible legislatively and increase the urgency of appointing good people to the executive branch to make things happen there,” said Adam Green, a co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a sister organization of the Progressive Change Institute, and an ally of Ms. Warren’s.

Progressives have not abandoned hope of passing legislation, either, even if a Republican Senate makes doing so much more difficult. They are optimistic that there is broadly palatable legislation that the Senate may still pass, including a coronavirus relief bill, a $15 federal minimum wage and investment in infrastructure.

“I believe that if Joe Biden is in the White House, it changes the dynamic where people know that there will be a president who will sign these things into law,” Ms. Jayapal said. “And that will help us a lot.”

“That’s the question: Are Republicans going to continue to be enablers of an outrageous Trump agenda even when he’s out of the White House?” she added. “Or are they actually going to start speaking for their constituents?”

But if election results have dashed progressive hopes on some issues, there is still a sense of resolve.

Waleed Shahid, a spokesman for the insurgent liberal group Justice Democrats, said it was “critical” for Democrats and Mr. Biden to govern like they just won a majority of the popular vote rather than seeking to appease Mr. McConnell and other Republicans. He warned that going after “small-ball deals” with Mr. McConnell could depress Democratic enthusiasm in the 2022 midterm elections. And he noted that Mr. Trump had appointed several people on an acting basis to positions that traditionally required Senate confirmation.

“Basically, Joe Biden should use every tool at his disposal to appoint an administration that will deliver for the voters who elected him,” he said. “There’s going to be a lot of efforts to push on the executive and what the executive can do.”





No.18 article:
Trump Put Down Philadelphia. The City Got Payback.

A city that “will long remember slights,” as one area congressman put it, came through for Joe Biden, who benefited from his ties there and President Trump’s affronts to its voters.

PHILADELPHIA — It was just before noon on Saturday, and Bob Brady was trying to reach Joseph R. Biden Jr. on the phone. Mr. Brady, the chairman of the Philadelphia Democrats, wanted to pass along an increasingly open secret among elections officials and the news media: The city was about to release a tally of roughly 3,000 more votes.

The phone was answered by Mr. Biden’s brother James Biden, who relayed Mr. Brady’s bulletin to the candidate sitting next to him. The significance would not have been lost on anyone who had been closely following the ballot-counting process — if the percentages lined up right for Mr. Biden, the votes would put him over the top.

And, indeed, just as his brother and Mr. Brady hung up the phone, 2,431 votes from the city moved into Mr. Biden’s column, clinching Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes, and with them, the presidency.

Philadelphia and its suburban counties had laid the final brick that rebuilt the proverbial blue wall in 2020, and Democrats here wanted to make sure everyone — especially President Trump — knew it.

As the newly counted votes set off a rapid-fire succession of news outlets calling the race for Mr. Biden, the city that heralds itself as the birthplace of American independence from Britain celebrated the toppling of a leader who had provoked its anger. In laying the groundwork for his baseless claims of voter fraud, Mr. Trump had declared from the debate stage that “bad things happen in Philadelphia,” and over the weekend his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani assailed a history of corruption in the city as he pursued unlikely efforts to challenge the election results.

But ask Philadelphians about when things turned sour with the president, and many will point back more than two years, to his abrupt cancellation of a traditional White House visit for the city’s beloved Eagles football team after its first ever Super Bowl victory in 2018.

In this city with a penchant for deeply held civic grudges, trash talk and impolitic celebrations of its rivals’ travails, where Crisco slathered on telephone poles to prevent climbing is a sign of impending revelry, the blocks around City Hall on Saturday began to resemble the famed Super Bowl parade of 2018.

Chest-pumping pride spilled out, with expressions of enthusiasm for Mr. Biden, the former vice president, often overshadowed by feelings of vengeance toward Mr. Trump.

“Philly knows how to stand up for itself, and love us or hate us, this is what we do right here,” said Rob Cancel, 37, as he joined the celebration outside the city’s convention center on Saturday sporting a red “Bad things happen in Philadelphia” T-shirt. “We come out, we show up and we show them who we are. We’re a strong, strong, proud people.”

Others were more direct.

“I must say, Philly got to tell him he’s fired. Woo!” said Stephanie Marsh, 40, as she skipped down Arch Street toward the convention center.

A widely circulated photograph showed one man holding a sign listing perceived civic adversaries — though it used a different, more profane, word — who had been “defeated by Philadelphia,” including King George III, the former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and Mr. Trump.

Another photo showed a sign held aloft over revelers noting that Mr. Trump had “disinvited the Eagles to the White House.” It added, “So we returned the favor.”

“Philadelphia is a city that will long remember slights, and the fact the president of the United States personally, repeatedly, went after us is something that we absolutely took offense to and wanted to fight back against,” said Representative Brendan Boyle, who represents Northeast Philadelphia and was one of the first members of Congress to endorse Mr. Biden’s presidential campaign. “Donald Trump was insane to pick on Philadelphia. If there was ever a city that anyone should never mess with, it is Philadelphia.”

Separate from the enmity for Mr. Trump, Philadelphia has long been a base of support — and cash — for Mr. Biden, who has strong ties to the city, having served for 36 years as a senator from neighboring Delaware, during which time he lived in the suburbs of Wilmington, Del., about 45 minutes from Center City in Philadelphia. He was sometimes referred to as “Pennsylvania’s third senator,” though his affinity for the state stems to no small degree from his upbringing in Scranton, more than two hours north of Philadelphia.

His wife, Jill Biden, grew up in Philadelphia’s northern suburbs and has maintained its distinct accent, to the approval of discerning Philadelphia ears. The future first couple root for the city’s sports teams, and were on hand for the most glorious moment in its athletic history — the Eagles’ victory over the heavily favored Patriots at the 2018 Super Bowl in Minneapolis.

Two of Mr. Biden’s granddaughters have lived in the city and attended the University of Pennsylvania in West Philadelphia, which was also the alma mater of Mr. Biden’s son Beau, who died in 2015, and the president-elect’s daughter, Ashley, who reportedly still lived in the city as of last month.

After Mr. Biden’s vice presidency, the university became a key part of his professional base, establishing the Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement in Washington.

He was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars as a professor by the university, and several of his close advisers, including possible appointees in the nascent Biden administration, were affiliated at various times with the center. They include Steve Ricchetti, the Biden campaign’s chairman and the president-elect’s former vice-presidential chief of staff, as well as Brian McKeon, Colin Kahl, Michael Carpenter and Dan Erikson, former advisers to Mr. Biden.

When Mr. Biden began his presidential bid, he chose Philadelphia for the campaign’s headquarters, as well as his announcement speech and kickoff fund-raiser, which was held at a home in the city’s leafy West Mount Airy neighborhood belonging to David L. Cohen, a senior executive at Comcast. Mr. Cohen, who is also the chairman of the board of trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, had participated in the ribbon-cutting for the Biden Center.

Mr. Biden’s campaign staff had a number of Philadelphia-area natives in prominent roles, including its national political director, Erin Wilson.

To increase turnout in the city, Democrats pulled out all of the stops. They called in celebrity reinforcements like Debra Messing and Kathy Najimy and sent them knocking on doors. They lined up John Legend to croon for a packed parking lot. And they dispatched top political surrogates, including former President Barack Obama and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to campaign in the city.

Local Democrats augmented the effort. Representative Dwight Evans organized car caravans to snake through neighborhoods in his district, which includes parts of North Philadelphia and West Philadelphia, honking at residents to remind them to vote. On Sunday, his caravan drove for 35 miles. Philadelphia stretches just 15 miles north to south.

“The easy thing about this was, it was not persuasion — you only had to ensure that the process was working,” Mr. Evans said. He added that his own 10th Ward, in the northwest part of the city, had voted for Mr. Biden by 97.5 percent to 2.5 percent over Mr. Trump. “And us doing those car caravans was us explaining that process.”

Five days before the election, Mr. Biden hopped on a Zoom meeting with Philadelphia Democrats, telling them, “Philadelphia is the place where everything happened for me.” He added: “It’s where I raised my money when I was a senator. It’s where I got support. It’s where I got help.”

He turned to his friend Bob Brady, the Democratic chairman. “If you’ve got to be in a foxhole, we want you in there with us,” Mr. Biden said.

For Mr. Brady, who has led the Democratic Party in this city for 34 years, the effort in Philadelphia was personal. Mr. Brady and Mr. Biden are close, having grabbed countless “steaks on the go” through the years, perfecting the familiar lean of bending at the hips to avoid cheesesteak stains on their clothes. After Mr. Obama asked him to be his running mate in 2008, Mr. Biden called his wife, and his next call went to Mr. Brady.

“People were asking how much pressure I had on me because he is my friend,” Mr. Brady said. “A ton of pressure. A ton of pressure.”

And on the Sunday before Election Day, Mr. Biden spoke to canvassers gathered by Congressman Boyle at the campaign headquarters that he shares with his brother, Kevin J. Boyle, a Pennsylvania state representative, in Northeast Philadelphia.

Mr. Biden told the crowd, “We have an expression where I come from: You never forget those who brung you to the dance.”

He thanked Congressman Boyle, saying that “we owe Brendan” for his endorsement on “the day I announced,” and that “it brought along everything else that’s happened.”

When the race was called for Mr. Biden, Mr. Boyle, who gave leave to two of his congressional aides to work in the Biden campaign’s political shop, tweeted: “WE DID IT! PHILLY PUTS BIDEN OVER THE TOP IN PENNSYLVANIA!”

In an interview on Monday, the congressman, who is said to be under consideration for a possible administration post, predicted that a Biden administration would be receptive to the concerns of the Philadelphia area, and not just because of its role in his election.

“It helps to have someone in the White House at the top who is very familiar with our area and cares about it,” Mr. Boyle said.





No.19 article:
Corrections: Nov. 10, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Nov. 10, 2020.

An article on Wednesday about Maricopa County, Ariz., misidentified which elected positions in the county are held by Democrats. Positions held by Democrats include the county recorder and sheriff, not the assessor and school superintendent.

An article on Sunday about Ballina, the ancestral Irish town of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., misstated the vintage of a cherry red Buick Electra with Elvis cushions. It was from 1959; the Electra was not made in 1957. The article also misspelled the name of a teacher in Ballina. She is Aileen Horkan, not Horkin.

An article on Sunday about the Eataly executive Dino Borri misstated the name of a restaurant. It is La Pizza e La Pasta, not La Pizza e La La Palla.

An article on Saturday about Nannette Streicher, the prominent keyboard manufacturer, misstated her age at her death, in 1833. She was 64, not 70.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.20 article:
Barr Hands Prosecutors the Authority to Investigate Voter Fraud Claims

The attorney general said that he had authorized “instances” of investigative steps but that inquiries should not be based on specious claims.

WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr, wading into President Trump’s unfounded accusations of widespread election irregularities, told federal prosecutors on Monday that they were allowed to investigate “specific allegations” of voter fraud before the results of the presidential race are certified.

Mr. Barr’s authorization prompted the Justice Department official who oversees investigations of voter fraud, Richard Pilger, to step down from the post within hours, according to an email Mr. Pilger sent to colleagues that was obtained by The New York Times.

Mr. Barr said he had authorized “specific instances” of investigative steps in some cases. He made clear in a carefully worded memo that prosecutors had the authority to investigate, but he warned that “specious, speculative, fanciful or far-fetched claims should not be a basis for initiating federal inquiries.”

Mr. Barr’s directive ignored the Justice Department’s longstanding policies intended to keep law enforcement from affecting the outcome of an election. And it followed a move weeks before the election in which the department lifted a prohibition on voter fraud investigations before an election.

“Given that voting in our current elections has now concluded, I authorize you to pursue substantial allegations of voting and vote tabulation irregularities prior to the certification of elections in your jurisdictions,” Mr. Barr wrote.

A Justice Department official said that Mr. Barr had authorized scrutiny of allegations about ineligible voters in Nevada and backdated mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania. Republicans have circulated both claims in recent days without any evidence emerging to back them.

Mr. Barr did not write the memo at the direction of Mr. Trump, the White House or any Republican lawmakers, the official said.

Mr. Barr has privately told department officials in the days since the election that any disputes should be resolved in court by the campaigns themselves, according to three people briefed on the conversations. He has said that he did not see massive fraud, and that most of the allegations of voter fraud were related to individual instances that did not point to a larger systemic problem, the people said.

But critics of Mr. Barr immediately condemned the memo as a political act that undermined the Justice Department’s typical independence from the White House.

“It would be problematic enough if Barr were reversing longstanding Justice Department guidance because of significant, substantiated claims of misconduct — that could presumably be handled at the local and state level,” said Stephen I. Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law.

“But to do so when there is no such evidence — and when the president’s clear strategy is to delegitimize the results of a proper election — is one of the more problematic acts of any attorney general in my lifetime,” Mr. Vladeck added.

Mr. Pilger, a career prosecutor in the department’s Public Integrity Section who oversaw voting-fraud-related investigations, told colleagues he would move to a nonsupervisory role working on corruption prosecutions.

“Having familiarized myself with the new policy and its ramifications,” he wrote, “I must regretfully resign from my role as director of the Election Crimes Branch.” A Justice Department spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Mr. Pilger’s message.

Justice Department policies prohibit federal prosecutors from taking overt steps, like questioning witnesses or securing subpoenas for documents, to open a criminal investigation into any election-related matter until after voting results have been certified to keep their existence from spilling into public view and influencing either voters or local election officials who ensure the integrity of the results.

“Public knowledge of a criminal investigation could impact the adjudication of election litigation and contests in state courts,” the Justice Department’s longstanding election guidelines for prosecutors say. “Accordingly, it is the general policy of the department not to conduct overt investigations.”

More covert investigative steps, like an investigator going undercover, are allowed but require the permission of a career prosecutor in the department’s Criminal Division.

Mr. Barr’s memo allows U.S. attorneys to bypass that career prosecutor and take their requests to his office for approval, effectively weakening a key safeguard that prevents political interference in an election by the party in power.

The memo is unlikely to change the outcome of the election but could damage public confidence in the results, Justice Department prosecutors warned, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. They said that the public posturing by the department also gave Republicans, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, a tool to refuse to acknowledge Mr. Biden as the president-elect.

Mr. McConnell and Mr. Barr met on Monday afternoon. Representatives from both of their offices declined to comment on what they discussed.

Mr. Trump faces a steep battle in his attempt to change the election results. Mr. Biden declared victory on Saturday after several news media organizations declared him the winner based on tabulated election returns.

“It’s not merely about showing evidence of fraud but that the malfeasance would actually affect the outcome in several states,” said Matt Gorman, a Republican strategist. “You’re talking about changing hundreds of thousands of votes.”

While Mr. Trump’s campaign lawyers have filed a dozen or so legal challenges to the results in battleground states, none appeared to be gaining traction in the courts. And none were likely to give the president an edge in the votes he would need to change the outcome of the race.

Justice Department investigators are looking into a referral from the Republican Party in Nevada, which claims over 3,000 people who live outside the state voted in its election, the department official said. The official would not say whether the department had opened a full investigation. A federal judge dismissed the claim in court last week.

The department is also reviewing a sworn affidavit written by a postal worker in Erie, Pa., alleging that post office officials devised a plan to backdate mail ballots in the state, the official said.

The local postmaster has denied the allegations and said that the accuser has been disciplined multiple times in the past. That affidavit was sent to the department by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and head of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who is a close ally of the president.

In the days after the election, Mr. Barr faced pressure from Mr. Trump and his aides to intervene to help the president. Conservative commentators have criticized Mr. Barr’s lack of action, saying that he was looking the other way.

Mr. Barr had been silent about voter fraud in recent weeks after previously issuing unsubstantiated warnings of widespread fraud because of the large number of mail-in ballots cast in this election. Voter fraud is rare, and no major instances of it have emerged in the election.

At the same time, the department has made it easier for prosecutors to pursue voter fraud cases and publicized details from the investigations that generated headlines that helped Mr. Trump, prompting sharp criticism from Democrats and civil rights advocates.





No.21 article:
The Politics of Terrorism in a Combustible Europe

Austria and France both suffered deadly attacks in recent weeks. The responses offer a glimpse of the political shape-shifting around Europe’s complex relationship with Islam.

PARIS — October’s knife slayings by freelance terrorists shocked the French but have not led to the global outpouring of sympathy for France seen after Islamist massacres in 2015 and 2016. European leaders have expressed solidarity, but the Muslim world has been convulsed with anti-French demonstrations and calls for a boycott.

Beyond the magnitude of the attacks, the striking difference between then and now has much to do with President Emanuel Macron’s response, which has alienated many French Muslims and generated anger across the Muslim world.

His government set in motion a broad-brush crackdown on Islamists and some Muslim organizations, with language that appeared to conflate Islam (the religion) with “Islamism” (an ideology that has sometimes led to violence).

Now, looking for allies, Mr. Macron is reaching out to Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria, making common cause with a European leader whose country was also hit by a terrorist attack, last week. The two men will meet in Paris on Tuesday to discuss terrorism’s challenge to Europe, according to the Élysée Palace.

After the attack in Vienna, Mr. Kurz barely caused a ripple with his response, using conciliatory words that deliberately sought to defuse tensions. “Our enemy is never all those belonging to a religion,” Mr. Kurz said last week in addressing his nation. “Our enemy is extremists and terrorists.”

Mr. Macron, by contrast, even before the recent killings, had sought to make a critique of Islam and Islamism a signature issue before the 2022 presidential campaign. “Islam is a religion that is today living through a crisis everywhere in the world,” he said.

Since then, he has tried to soothe ruffled feelings and to emphasize that his “country is a country that has no problem with any religion,” as he told Al Jazeera in an interview.

But he has also bridled at any hint of criticism from the Western media outside France (inside he has received solid support), and taken pains to clarify his views.

“France is fighting against Islamist separatism, never against Islam,” he wrote in the Financial Times after it published an opinion piece that Mr. Macron said had unfairly accused him of stigmatizing French Muslims for political purposes. He vigorously denied doing so, and the newspaper removed the original article from its site for review.

Mr. Macron has also expressed irritation about American coverage of the government’s response, including in The New York Times, according to the newspaper Le Monde, complaining in a recent cabinet meeting, “Going along with American multiculturalism would be a kind of death of thinking,” and vowing that there would be no French “alignment” with it.

But while Mr. Macron has insisted that he has no quarrel with his country’s Muslims, only with terrorists and “Islamism,” his government appeared to lash out indiscriminately after the beheading of a teacher, Samuel Paty.

It said it would shut down two Muslim aid organizations that the authorities accused of having extremist views; it conducted dozens of raids; and it sought to deport hundreds of Muslims already in police files.

On Monday, the Austrian police did much the same, carrying out scores of raids aimed at members of the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas. Dozens were arrested or brought in for questioning on suspicion of forming terrorist networks, terrorist financing and money laundering, the interior minister said.

The Austrian authorities said the operation had been in the works even before last week’s terrorist attack, which it attributed to a man linked to the Islamic State.

Whether there is much daylight between the two leaders’ positions remains to be seen. Mr. Kurz, 34, and Mr. Macron, 42, both ambitious and unapologetic political chameleons, offer a glimpse of the political shape-shifting in a combustible Europe, especially as it regards terrorism and immigration.

Mr. Macron was elected as the center-left savior of liberal democracy as France’s Socialist Party imploded. He is now tacking to the right, letting his ministers do most of the tough talking for him, to position himself for France’s next presidential election in 2022, when he is expected to face a strong challenge from the nationalist far right.

Mr. Kurz, a conservative, was already elected once before by co-opting the message of the far right, which he then joined in a coalition that employed some of Europe’s harshest language and restrictions against immigrants. But since Austria’s last election in 2017, he has teamed up with the left-leaning Greens. His new coalition is very different — and so are his words.

Early last month Mr. Macron laid out markers for what would become his aggressive stance after the killings, in the face of what he calls “Islamists” and “Islamism.”

But there has been ambiguity in his approach from the beginning, and Mr. Macron’s subtle — sometimes too subtle — use of language has left his phrasing and positions open to multiple interpretations, not all of them favorable to the French president.

In his lengthy Oct. 2 speech, Mr. Macron declared war on what he deems “Islamist separatism” — the tendency, according to him, for some Muslims in France to jettison republican values and to develop an “alternative organization of society.”

There are sociologists who don’t think the problem is as large as Mr. Macron portrays it. They point out that an overwhelming majority of French Muslims merely want to be equal citizens of France. And Mr. Macron himself was careful to acknowledge the way the French Republic has ghettoized its Muslim citizens, denied them opportunity and oppressed them with the weight of France’s colonial past.

Those caveats were largely ignored in the Muslim world. What amplified the post-killings anger was the way Mr. Macron slid seamlessly from the dangers of “Islamism,” over to what he deemed a fundamental problem with Islam itself.

Early in the 70-minute speech he talked of the “ultimate goal” of Islamists, to “take complete control.” Then he spoke of the murders by a jihadist of two local police officers, of a “radical Islamism that leads to denial of the Republic’s laws.”

Almost immediately he moved on to the phrases that gave offense — about the “profound crisis” in Islam. Mr. Macron told the Al Jazeera interviewer that these phrases were “taken out of context.”

The “context” for his critique of Islam, though, was unmistakable — Mr. Macron’s long catalog of the crimes of “Islamism.”

Later in the same speech Mr. Macron sought to bring Islam under the aegis of France, to make it a French project — to de-Islamize it in some way, reinforcing hints that Islam itself was alien.

A principal “axis” of his strategy, Mr. Macron explained in the speech, would be to construct ‘‘an Islam of the Enlightenment” in France — thereby incorporating Islam into a signature achievement in French cultural history, the period dominated by thinkers like Voltaire and Diderot.

After Mr. Paty’s killing, France’s far-right leader, Marine Le Pen declared, “Islamism is a warlike ideology whose means of conquest is terrorism.” The same day Mr. Macron’s interior minister, Gerald Darmanin announced police operations against “the enemy within, insidious and extremely well organized.”

Two days later, Mr. Macron told a national audience, eulogizing Mr. Paty: “I have named the evil. The actions have been decided on. We have made them even tougher. And we will carry them to their conclusion.”

In this context, the display of restraint by Mr. Kurz, who not long ago was parroting the anti-immigrant message of the far right, did not go unnoticed.

“He resisted the populist temptation,” said Peter Neumann, senior fellow at the International Center for the Study of Radicalization at King’s College in London. “It would have been easy and probably popular with his voters to give a more polarizing speech, a speech that takes a tough line on Muslims and how Islam has to change.

“He could have held a Macron speech, but he didn’t,” Mr. Neumann added.

Meanwhile, Mr. Macron continued to fiercely defend the caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, first published in Charlie Hebdo, in the name of “preserving liberty.” 

That position has met wide approval in France, on the left and right, among intellectuals and politicians, and in the media. Prominent moderate Muslims have also, in public, expressed muted support.

“It doesn’t shock me. It doesn’t touch me,” said Tareq Oubrou, the imam of Bordeaux’s mosque, of the caricatures. Muslims “should receive this type of provocation with indifference,” he said.

Within France, there have been only a few dissident voices, in public, pointing out potential flaws in Mr. Macron’s approach.

“He’s the president of all the French, including the Muslims,” said Jean-François Bayart, a specialist on Islam at the Graduate Institute of Geneva. “Now he’s identifying France with a position that’s not representative of all sensibilities.”

Mr. Bayart has also pointed out that the French police systematically discriminate, abusively, against Muslims — a consistent finding of independent review bodies in recent years.

Calling Mr. Macron’s position on the caricatures “puerile,” Mr. Bayart said images are intended to “remind people that they don’t belong here, they are from somewhere else.” He added: “You’re an Arab, you’re an immigrant. You are stealing French bread.”





No.22 article:
Growing Discomfort at Law Firms Representing Trump in Election Lawsuits

Some lawyers at Jones Day and Porter Wright, which have filed suits about the 2020 vote, said they were worried about undermining the electoral system.

Like many big law firms, Jones Day, whose roots go back to Cleveland in the late 1800s, has prided itself on representing controversial clients.

There was Big Tobacco. There was the Bin Laden family. There was even the hated owner of the Cleveland Browns football team as he moved the franchise to Baltimore.

Now Jones Day is the most prominent firm representing President Trump and the Republican Party as they prepare to wage a legal war challenging the results of the election. The work is intensifying concerns inside the firm about the propriety and wisdom of working for Mr. Trump, according to lawyers at the firm.

Doing business with Mr. Trump — with his history of inflammatory rhetoric, meritless lawsuits and refusal to pay what he owes — has long induced heartburn among lawyers, contractors, suppliers and lenders. But the concerns are taking on new urgency as the president seeks to raise doubts about the election results.

Some senior lawyers at Jones Day, one of the country’s largest law firms, are worried that it is advancing arguments that lack evidence and may be helping Mr. Trump and his allies undermine the integrity of American elections, according to interviews with nine partners and associates, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect their jobs.

At another large firm, Porter Wright Morris &amp; Arthur, based in Columbus, Ohio, lawyers have held internal meetings to voice similar concerns about their firm’s election-related work for Mr. Trump and the Republican Party, according to people at the firm. At least one lawyer quit in protest.

Already, the two firms have filed at least four lawsuits challenging aspects of the election in Pennsylvania. The cases are pending.

The latest salvo came on Monday evening, when the Trump campaign filed a suit in federal court in Pennsylvania against the Pennsylvania secretary of state and a number of county election boards. The suit — filed by lawyers at Porter Wright — alleged that there were “irregularities” in voting across the state.

In recent days, Mr. Trump and his allies have been trying to raise money to bankroll their legal efforts. Some of the fund-raising entreaties have noted that a portion of donated money might be used to pay down the campaign’s existing debts, rather than to fund new legal efforts.

While it is not clear which law firms will be filing the suits, Jones Day has been one of Mr. Trump’s most steadfast legal advisers.

As Mr. Trump campaigned for president in 2016, a Jones Day partner, Donald F. McGahn II, served as his outside lawyer, leading recount fights in critical states. Mr. McGahn later became Mr. Trump’s White House counsel, before returning to Jones Day.

At the time, some senior lawyers at Jones Day objected to working closely for a polarizing presidential candidate, according to three partners at the firm. They grimaced at the sight of Mr. McGahn standing with Mr. Trump onstage after he won the New Hampshire primary in February 2016. A month later, the firm hosted a meeting at its Capitol Hill office with Mr. Trump and Republican lawmakers as he sought to win over the party establishment.

The firm’s work for Mr. Trump has also garnered it unfavorable public attention. “Jones Day, Hands Off Our Ballots,” read a mural painted on the street outside the law firm’s San Francisco offices late last week.

During the Trump presidency, Jones Day has been involved in some 20 lawsuits involving Mr. Trump, his campaign or the Republican Party, and it worked for the Trump campaign on government investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election.

The work has been lucrative. Since 2015, Jones Day has received more than $20 million in fees from the Trump campaigns, political groups linked to Mr. Trump and the Republican National Committee, according to federal records. Jones Day lawyers said that was a small portion of the firm’s overall revenue.

In addition to Mr. McGahn, a number of other partners at the firm joined the Trump administration. Noel Francisco became Mr. Trump’s first solicitor general. Eric Dreiband is an assistant attorney general in the Justice Department.

Before the 2020 campaign, some partners at Jones Day said, they had to reassure clients that the firm’s representation of the Trump team would not influence the rest of the firm’s work, according to four partners. Lawyers at the firm have worked to promote gun control and have represented unaccompanied minors, including many detained by the federal government.

But partners generally swallowed their concerns about the close relationship with Mr. Trump.

Then the president and his allies, down in the polls, began fanning fears about voter fraud, part of a broader effort to sow doubts about the integrity of the election.

“Many of the GOP’s litigation concerns are meritorious in principle. But the president’s inflammatory language undercuts the claim that Republicans seek merely to uphold statutory safeguards needed to validate the results’ credibility,” Benjamin L. Ginsberg, a longtime Republican elections lawyer who left Jones Day in August, wrote in The Washington Post the following month. 

After the election, as Mr. Trump’s reported lead in Pennsylvania was evaporating, Jones Day and Porter Wright petitioned the Supreme Court to segregate all ballots received after Nov. 3. Pennsylvania, they wrote in their brief, “may well determine the next President of the United States.” A prominent Republican lawyer, John M. Gore, is helping to lead the effort at Jones Day. He previously served as an assistant attorney general in Mr. Trump’s Justice Department.

On Friday evening, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. ordered election officials in Pennsylvania to keep late-arriving ballots separate and not to include them in announced vote tallies. (Pennsylvania’s secretary of state had already given the same guidance.)

Six Jones Day lawyers said that given the small number of late-arriving ballots involved in the litigation, and the fact that they already had been segregated, the main goal of the litigation seemed to be to erode public confidence in the election results.

Jones Day did not respond to a request for comment.

In recent days, two Jones Day lawyers said they had faced heckling from friends and others on social media about working at a firm that is supporting Mr. Trump’s efforts.

A lawyer in Jones Day’s Washington office felt that the firm risked hurting itself by taking on work that undermined the rule of law. “To me, it seems extremely shortsighted,” the lawyer said.

This year, Jones Day has received more than $4 million in fees from Mr. Trump, political groups supporting him and the Republican National Committee, according to the most recent Federal Election Commission records.

A number of Democratic and Republican partners at Jones Day said that while some of their colleagues were grumbling about the Trump relationship, it was the firm’s obligation to continue representing long-term clients, even if individual lawyers disagreed with their politics or tactics. Two partners recalled how Jones Day had stuck with Art Modell, the embattled Cleveland Browns owner, even when there were death threats against the firm’s lawyers and security staff had to escort employees in Cleveland to their cars.

The outcry at Porter Wright, which like Jones Day was founded in the 1800s in Ohio, appears more intense.

In the past week, the firm has filed multiple lawsuits in Pennsylvania, trying to poke holes in the reliability of the election results on behalf of the Trump campaign and the R.N.C., among others. Porter Wright has received at least $727,000 in fees this year from the Trump campaign and R.N.C., according to federal records.

Over the summer, some lawyers at Porter Wright were dismayed to learn that the firm would be representing the Trump campaign in Pennsylvania, according to three current and former employees.

Chief among their concerns: How could lawyers, whose profession is based on the rule of law, represent someone who they felt had frequently tried to flout it? One lawyer said he was concerned that the firm might be asked to try to delay the election. Another said he quit in response to the decision to represent Mr. Trump in Pennsylvania.

At two meetings, associates at Porter Wright told the firm’s partners that they objected to the work for the Trump campaign, according to the three current and former employees. They were told that the assignment was limited to the election in Pennsylvania. That assurance struck some attendees as hollow, since the state might decide the election.

Robert J. Tannous, the firm’s managing partner, declined to comment in detail on the work for Mr. Trump. He said, “Porter Wright has a long history of representing candidates, political parties, interest groups and individuals at the local, state and federal levels on both sides of the aisle, and as a law firm will continue to do so.”





No.23 article:
Gigi Proietti, Actor Who Embodied the Roman Spirit, Dies at 80

Beloved in Italy, he was best known as the star of a TV series playing a small-town police chief. He also had a long film career and a popular one-man stage show.

ROME — Gigi Proietti, a versatile actor who personified the sardonic, sometimes rough-hewn humor of his fellow Romans and was best known as the star of a long-running television series playing a small-town police chief, died here on Monday, his 80th birthday.

The cause was heart failure, said a spokeswoman for the Globe Theater in Rome, where he had been artistic director since 2003.

Mr. Proietti began his acting career in Rome’s experimental theater scene but quickly took center stage in a renowned one-man show — a mélange of jokes, traditional songs and touching sketches called “A Me Gli Occhi, Please” (“All Eyes on Me, Please”). The show drew some 500,000 spectators during its run in a Rome circus tent from 1976 to 1978.

He became a television star in variety shows, comedies and dramas, mostly on Italy’s national broadcaster. He played the chief in the Carabiniere, Italy’s paramilitary police force, in the hugely popular series “Il Maresciallo Rocca,” a mix of comedy and drama that ran intermittently for five seasons from 1995 to 2006 and continues to be seen in re-runs.

Mr. Proietti often played on his Roman roots. “A measured use of dialect adds expressiveness, realism, living flesh to acting,” he wrote in his 2013 autobiography, “Tutto Sommato” (“All Things Considered”).

Yet his appeal was nationwide.

“Proietti has always represented, with a professionalism equal only to his passion, the prototype of the actor who hams it up, a little vain and contemptuous but highly intelligent, giving the public unforgettable sketches, formidable caricatures and irresistible parodies,” Aldo Grasso, the chief television critic for Milan daily Corriere della Sera, wrote.

Rome’s mayor, Virginia Raggi, said Mr. Proietti was “an extraordinary interpreter of the Roman spirit.”

Luigi Proietti was born on Nov. 2, 1940, and raised in a Rome palazzo, where his father worked as the doorman. He wrote in his autobiography that he was happy to “have been born there, in the absolute center of the city, even if I have no recollection of that time.”

His father, Romano Proietti, was a jack-of-all-trades who eventually went to work for the national combustible fuels agency — his dream job, because in public administration in Italy one was hired for life. His mother, Giovanna Ceci, was a housewife.

The family, including an older sister, Annamaria, was poor, like so many others that had moved from the countryside to the capital to seek their fortune. “We had the desire and the strength to pull ourselves out without even losing our dignity,” Mr. Proietti wrote. “There is hope in poverty.”

He learned to play the guitar as a teenager, listening to songs by Elvis Presley, Fats Domino and the Platters and figuring out the chords. What started as a hobby became a job when he began playing in Rome nightclubs.

It was during one of these gigs, nearly 60 years ago, that he first encountered Sagitta Alter, a Swedish tour guide. She became his lifelong companion, though they never married. She survives him, along with his daughters Susanna, a costume designer, and Carlotta, a singer and actress.

Mr. Proietti began studying law at the University of Rome, but his heart was never in it, he later said. But he signed up for the university theater club and soon joined Gruppo 101, one of the experimental theater groups that sprang up in Rome in the 1960s, a period he described as “confused but alive; everything was in continuous contraposition.”

The group’s performances were almost always followed by long debates with the audience, which he jokingly compared to the “inhuman self-critical sessions that Maoist tribunals imposed on dissidents.”

“We couldn’t wait to have a shower and go to a pizzeria, but we were forced to stand there,” he said.

That kind of theater didn’t pay the bills, so, like many professional actors in Italy, he began dubbing English language films. One of his first jobs was dubbing Richard Burton in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” (1966). He went on to lend his voice to Dustin Hoffman, Marlon Brando, Sylvester Stallone and Sylvester the cat of Looney Tunes fame.

Mr. Proietti soon began working in television and films. He was handsome, but not in a marquee way: He liked to joke that when he played Cyrano de Bergerac in a 1985 television movie, he offered to save the producers money by skipping the prosthetic nose. He worked mostly with Italian directors, but not only. He had one memorable scene with Vittorio Gassman in Robert Altman’s 1978 ensemble comedy “The Wedding.”

The 1976 comedy “Febbre da Cavallo” (“Horse Fever”), in which he played a well-dressed inveterate gambler, has become a cult classic in Italy.

Mr. Proietti wrote that he had never seriously considered acting in the theater until, in 1970, he was hired at the last minute to fill in for Domenico Modugno (the Italian singer of “Volare” fame) in a musical at the Sistina, Rome’s leading musical theater. It was a turning point in his career, leading to his one-man show.

He was artistic director of several theaters in Rome, most successfully at the Globe, which was built in the Villa Borghese in 2003 to feature works by Shakespeare and others. He also opened and directed an acting school in Rome.

“I tried not to teach anything,” he wrote. “I advised the students, tried to show them a way, tried to make them read as much as possible.”

Though he loved Rome, it was a complicated relationship.

“I was born in Rome and lived here all my life,” he wrote in his autobiography. “I got everything from Rome, I have had disappointments, I owe Rome what I am, and I gave to Rome what I could.”





No.24 article:
What’s Not the Matter With Georgia?

A Democratic win offers hope — but also a warning.

Right now, we all have Georgia on our minds. It’s probably going to end up called for Joe Biden; his lead is razor-thin, but most observers expect it to survive a recount. And the January runoff races in Georgia offer Democrats their last chance to take the Senate.

Beyond the immediate electoral implications, however, the fact that Democrats are now competitive in Georgia but not in Ohio, which appears to have become Trumpier than Texas, tells you a lot about where America is heading. In some ways these changes in the electoral map offer reason for hope; but they also suggest looming problems for U.S. democracy.

How did Georgia turn faintly blue? As The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson wrote, in a phrase I wish I’d come up with, the great divide in American politics is now over “density and diplomas”: highly urbanized states — especially those containing large metropolitan areas — with highly educated populations tend to be Democratic.

Why this particular partisan association? Think about the longer-term political strategy of the modern G.O.P. Republican economic policy is relentlessly plutocratic: tax cuts for the rich, benefit cuts for everyone else. The party has, however, sought to win over voters who aren’t rich by taking advantage of intolerance — racial hostility, of course, but also opposition to social change in general.

But both living in large, diverse metropolitan areas and being highly educated seem to make voters less receptive to this strategy. Indeed, many big-city and highly educated voters seem repelled by G.O.P. illiberalism on social issues — which is why so many affluent Americans on the coasts back Democrats even though Republicans might reduce their taxes.

In practice, density and diplomas tend to go together — an association that has grown stronger over the past few decades. Modern economic growth has been led by knowledge-based industries; these industries tend to concentrate in large metropolitan areas that have highly educated work forces; and the growth of these metropolitan areas brings in even more highly educated workers.

Hence the transformation of Georgia. The state is home to greater Atlanta, one of the nation’s most dynamic metropolises, which now accounts for 57 percent of Georgia’s population. Atlanta has drawn in a growing number of college-educated workers, so that at this point the percentage of working-age adults with bachelor’s degrees is higher in Georgia than in Wisconsin or Michigan. So at some level it shouldn’t be surprising that Georgia apparently joined the “blue wall” in securing the presidency for Biden.

But if there’s one thing I hope Democrats have learned these past dozen years, it is that they can’t simply count on changing demography and growing social liberalism to deliver election victories. Red-state Republicans have fought tooth and nail to hold power — not by moderating their policies, but through gerrymandering and vote suppression. And Democrats need to do what they can to fight back.

Which is why Georgia’s blue shift is in one way a reason for hope.

Why, after all, did Biden win Georgia even as he was losing North Carolina, another relatively well-educated state with growing knowledge industries? The answer, in two words: Stacey Abrams.

Two years ago Abrams narrowly lost her bid to become Georgia’s governor, largely thanks to ruthless efforts to suppress the Black vote by Brian Kemp, the secretary of state — who also happened to be her opponent. She could, with considerable justification, have tried to make the case that the election was stolen.

But what she did instead was much more effective: She led a hugely impressive effort to get eligible Georgia citizens registered and to the polls. In so doing, she achieved a victory that would probably have delivered the White House to Biden even if he hadn’t carried Pennsylvania. Her efforts are a reason to think Democrats still have a chance at getting those two Senate seats. And partisan politics aside, we should celebrate evidence that hard work can sometimes overcome voter suppression.

That’s the good news. The bad news is that the same forces that made it possible to turn Georgia blue are also exacerbating the underlying flaws in American democracy.

For the Senate hugely overrepresents voters in states with small populations — which mainly means states that are relatively rural and don’t contain big metropolitan areas. The Electoral College has a similar though smaller slant.

And the growing divide between rural and metropolitan voters means that outcomes like 2016, when Donald Trump won office despite losing the popular vote by a substantial margin, are increasingly likely.

Indeed, Joe Biden will become president only after winning the popular vote by a near-landslide; once all the votes are counted, he’ll probably be ahead by around five percentage points. And the evidence keeps mounting that the party that benefits from this skewed system is fundamentally opposed to democracy.

So the news from Georgia is encouraging in itself, but is also a warning that American democracy remains very much at risk.





No.25 article:
Elections Don’t Have to Be So Chaotic and Excruciating

The random way in which returns were released caused anxiety and sowed conspiracy theories.

Joe Biden ended up winning the presidency with at least 279 electoral votes, a margin that seems comfortable now that the election is over. But for the public watching the ups and downs of the piecemeal vote count and the drip drip drip of results, the process was torturous — and offered President Trump and his allies the opportunity to conjure conspiracy theories to explain away his defeat.

It was all entirely unnecessary.

We need to fundamentally change how election returns are reported — not just for the sake of our psychological health and our sleep, but for the polity.

The random way in which returns were counted and released by states — Election Day returns versus mail-in ballots, for instance — led to wild fluctuations as results were updated. The consequence, as experts predicted, was a series of shifts in early tabulations, as candidates seemed to outperform or underperform expectations. President Trump seized on these gyrations, warning that something “strange” was going on and that a conspiracy was afoot to “steal” the election.

Of course, it was all a mirage, the unintended outcome of 50 states and the District of Columbia reporting their results in their own ways. As the University of Georgia law professor Christian Turner put it on Twitter after the election: “No one is up. No one is down. No one is leading or trailing. The votes have been cast. It’s over. All we have to do now is to ascertain something that has already happened.”

In other words, the random dissemination of results gave the appearance of something that just wasn’t true — that the returns were dynamic, not static — and that the counting of votes reflected “trends” when the result was already in. We simply needed to tally the votes to figure out what that result was.

Worse still, how the results were reported also distorted our understanding of when votes were cast. In some states, like Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, rules prohibiting “pre-canvassing” — preparing early and mail-in ballots for counting — before Election Day meant that votes cast first could end up being counted last.

This haphazard process causes problems in at least three respects:

First, it opens the door for charges that something is amiss, as it might have struck some with the returns from Pennsylvania, where the count first had one candidate up by thousands of votes, only to swing entirely in the other direction. This can leave the impression that sinister forces were at work, when it was just a function of the partisan makeup of the counties whose votes were being counted, or the type of vote — mail-ins, for example, which are disproportionately Democratic — being reported.

Second, for state legislatures, this “mirage” phenomenon could encourage mischief. For instance, the prohibition on early processing of mail votes in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin has been laid to Republican lawmakers, who control the legislatures of those three states. Those decisions appear to have produced exactly this effect — to have the first reported results look much better for Republican candidates than the overall tally, thus influencing the election narrative. There’s value in shaping the headlines even if the bottom line remains unchanged.

Finally, the uniquely American approach to counting and releasing election returns — with each state running its election its way — can lead to days of unnecessary and often misleading televised drama, with negative consequences for our mental (and physical) health. How many hours were wasted in the past few days refreshing web pages with election results or sitting in front of the television? How much productivity was lost? How much avoidable stress was created? How much social turmoil could have been avoided?

It doesn’t have to be this way. In Canada, for instance, a nonpartisan federal agency administers elections using a uniform set of rules and procedures across the country. Brazil has a similar system. Indeed, David Carroll, director of the Carter Center’s democracy program, told The Washington Post recently that the decentralized nature of the U.S. electoral system for choosing a national leader is unique. Even so, there is no question that Congress, under the Constitution’s Elections Clause, could impose uniform national rules at least for federal elections.

Centralizing the process under uniform rules is one key reform. So is regulating the dissemination of results so that they are released only when the initial count is complete rather than releasing interim data seemingly at random.

Other democracies have figured out how to count all of the votes without distorting the results, frightening their voters or sowing discord. If this week has taught us anything, it’s that the United States should do the same.





No.26 article:
‘Jeopardy!’ Fans Can’t Imagine the Show Without Alex Trebek

Ex-contestants, celebrities and game show enthusiasts mourned the loss of Mr. Trebek, who died on Sunday after battling pancreatic cancer.

For television viewers under a certain age, there was never a “Jeopardy!” without Alex Trebek.

Calm, steady and always with a twinkle in his eye, Mr. Trebek was a constant on the television screens of millions of people since he took over as host in 1984. After news broke that the game show host died on Sunday after battling Stage 4 pancreatic cancer, there was an outpouring of sadness from fans, ex-contestants and celebrities.

“Alex Trebek was ‘Jeopardy!’,” said Monica Thieu, a contestant who won the college championship in 2012. “We have no idea what the show is going to be without him.”

Mr. Trebek, who was 80 years old, had hosted more than 8,200 episodes, and more remain to be broadcast. The show said that Mr. Trebek’s last day in the studio was Oct. 29 and that the final new “Jeopardy!” episode with him as host will air on Dec. 25. The show has not divulged any plans that it has to appoint a new host.

Ms. Thieu, 26, who also appeared on the show in 2013 and 2019, said that she revered Mr. Trebek as a child, going so far as to try to compete in the National Geographic Bee when she was in fourth grade so she could meet Mr. Trebek, who for many years hosted the annual contest (now the GeoBee) in Washington. “He made it cool to be smart,” she said.

Mr. Trebek was equally admired by an older generation of contestants and game show lovers. For decades, the show has been a reliable staple in American pop culture, something viewers can turn on at the same time every weekday — and the silver-haired host was a key ingredient in that.

Richard Cordray, a five-time “Jeopardy!” champion in the 1980s who went on to become the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said that part of what made the game show such a source of comfort for so many Americans was Mr. Trebek’s consistency as host.

“In his elegant and gracious way, he always had the answer to every question,” he said.

Ever since Mr. Trebek went public with his cancer diagnosis in March 2019, contestants have been vocal about their adoration and support for their host. In a show that aired in November of last year, shortly after Mr. Trebek revealed that he had resumed chemotherapy to treat the cancer, Mr. Trebek got choked up when one contestant wrote “What is ‘We love you, Alex!’” for his Final Jeopardy response.

And at one match of the “Greatest of All Time” (or G.O.A.T.) tournament earlier this year, James Holzhauer, a record-setting “Jeopardy!” star, knew that he was too far behind to win, so he used his answer board to honor Trebek, calling him the “GHOST,” or “greatest host of syndicated TV.”

Among the ex-contestants who have spent the most time onstage with Mr. Trebek is Ken Jennings, who captivated “Jeopardy!” fans with a 74-game winning streak in 2004 and went on to win the show’s “G.O.A.T” tournament. On Sunday, Mr. Jennings, who is a consulting producer on the current season of the show, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Trebek was a “deeply decent man” and said he was grateful for every minute that he got to spend with him.

And in a country where even pop culture icons often attract ire from people with a certain political ideology, Mr. Trebek remained far outside the political fray.

“In a time where the country feels deeply divided, Alex will be missed by everyone,” Mr. Holzhauer said in a statement on Sunday.

On social media, there was a cascade of mourning from fellow television hosts and celebrities. Ryan Seacrest wrote on Twitter that Mr. Trebek was “like a family member who I watched every night.” Steve Harvey, who hosts “Family Feud,” called him “the classiest game show host of all time.” Jimmy Kimmel, referencing yesterday&#x27;s election results, quipped, “Couldn’t we have one nice weekend?”

Mr. Trebek, who was born in Ontario and who started his career at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, also received recognition from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, who said on Twitter that Mr. Trebek had been responsible for instilling a love of trivia in many.

But Mr. Trebek’s celebrity was never flashy or self-centered. He had turned down offers to write a book until recently, when he published his memoir, “The Answer Is …: Reflections on My Life.” He said he planned to donate the money he got for the book.

On the show itself, past contestants remember him as a consummate professional, treating all contestants with the same interest and respect when interacting with them. (That consistency made it all the more shocking when Mr. Trebek diverged from his usual politeness, like when he poked fun at a contestant’s love for a genre of music called “nerd-core hip-hop.”)“He was so committed to the show being about the contestants and not about him,” said Emma Boettcher, a contestant who ended Mr. Holzhauer’s winning streak last year. “But for a lot of us, what we remember about the show is his presence.”

Jason Zuffranieri, who appeared as a contestant in 20 episodes of the show last year, said on Sunday that it was Mr. Trebek’s understated personality on camera and his dedication to the rules of the game that helped build the show’s credibility.

“His ability to stay out of the way and always be fair elevated the audience’s impression of both the game and himself,” he said. “It takes a special person to do that.”





No.27 article:
The End of ‘America First’: How Biden Says He Will Re-engage With the World

Those who have known President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. for decades say they expect him to move carefully, providing reassurance with a few big symbolic acts.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. makes no secret of the speed with which he plans to bury “America First” as a guiding principle of the nation’s foreign policy.

He says he will re-enter the Iran nuclear deal, assuming the Iranians are willing to reverse course and observe its limits.

He would sign up for another five years of the only surviving nuclear arms treaty with Russia and double down on American commitments to NATO after four years of threats from President Trump to withdraw from the alliance, which guided the West through the Cold War.

At the same time, Mr. Biden says he will make Russia “pay a price” for what he says have been disruptions and attempts to influence elections — including his own.

But mostly, Mr. Biden said in a statement to The New York Times, he wants to bring an end to a slogan that came to define a United States that built walls and made working with allies an afterthought — and, in Mr. Biden’s view, undermined any chance of forging a common international approach to fighting a pandemic that has cost more than 1.2 million lives.

“Tragically, the one place Donald Trump has made ‘America First’ is his failed response to the coronavirus: We’re 4 percent of the world’s population, yet have had 20 percent of the deaths,” Mr. Biden said days before the election. “On top of Trump embracing the world’s autocrats and poking his finger in the eye of our democratic allies, that’s another reason respect for American leadership is in free fall.”

But it is far easier to promise to return to the largely internationalist approach of the post-World War II era than it is to execute that shift after four years of global withdrawal and during a pandemic that has reinforced nationalist instincts. The world does not look remotely as it did when Mr. Biden last engaged it from the White House four years ago. Power vacuums have been created, and filled, often by China. Democracies have retreated. The race for a vaccine has created new rivalries.

So while foreign allies may find Mr. Biden reassuring — and smiled when they heard him say in a town-hall meeting that “‘America First’ has made America alone” — they also concede that they may never fully trust that the United States will not lurch back to building walls.

In interviews in the past several weeks, Mr. Biden’s top advisers began to outline a restoration that might be called the Great Undoing, an effort to reverse course on Mr. Trump’s aggressive attempt to withdraw to American borders.

“Whether we like it or not, the world simply does not organize itself,” said Antony J. Blinken, Mr. Biden’s longtime national security adviser. “Until the Trump administration, in Democratic and Republican administrations, the United States did a lot of that organizing, and we made some mistakes along the way, for sure.” Now, however, the United States has discovered what happens “when some other country tries to take our place or, maybe even worse, no one does, and you end up with a vacuum that is filled by bad events.”

Mr. Blinken acknowledged that for those allies — or opponents of Mr. Trump — looking to reset the clock to noon on Jan. 20, 2017, “it’s not going to happen.”

Those who have known Mr. Biden for decades say they expect him to move carefully, providing reassurance with a few big symbolic acts, starting with a return to the Paris climate accord in the first days of his administration. But substantive rebuilding of U.S. power will proceed far more slowly.

“He’ll inherit a situation which both gives him enormous latitude and, oddly, constrains him,” said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a longtime friend of Mr. Biden’s. “Clearly, what Trump did by executive order can be undone by executive order.”

But “any act that requires Senate approach or any new use of force, absent a clear provocation, will be pretty much off the table,” he added.

At 77, Mr. Biden has his own back-to-the-future vision of how to dispense with “America First”: “This is the time to tap the strength and audacity that took us to victory in two world wars and brought down the Iron Curtain,” he wrote in Foreign Affairs in March.

Yet in a campaign in which foreign policy was rarely mentioned, Mr. Biden was never pressed on how the current iteration of superpower competition differs from what he remembers from early in his political career.

He never stated what kind of “price” he had in mind for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to pay, though one of his longtime foreign policy advisers, Jake Sullivan, offered a bit of detail. Just before Election Day, he said that Mr. Biden was willing to impose “substantial and lasting costs on perpetrators of the Russian interference,” which could include financial sanctions, asset freezes, counter cyberattacks and, “potentially, the exposure of corruption by the leaders of foreign countries.”

That would signify a hardening in U.S. policy. But it would also involve steps that the Obama administration considered taking in its last six months, when Mr. Biden was vice president, and never carried out.

The sharp change on Russia offers a glimpse of the detailed planning that Mr. Biden’s transition team, organized late last spring, has engaged in to reverse Mr. Trump’s approach to the world. It has built a foreign policy team of formal and informal advisers, largely drawn from midlevel and senior Obama administration officials who are poised to return. There are timelines for opening negotiations, re-entering treaties and early summit meetings.

But their plans show some notable breaks from the Obama administration’s strategy. Mr. Biden is clearly rethinking positions he took in the Senate and in the White House.

The most vivid example, officials say, will come in rethinking China strategy. His own advisers concede that in the Obama years, Mr. Biden and his national security team underestimated the speed with which President Xi Jinping of China would crack down on dissent at home and use the combination of its 5G networks and its Belt and Road Initiative to challenge U.S. influence.

“Neither carrots nor sticks have swayed China as predicted,” Kurt Campbell, who served as the assistant secretary of state for Asia, and Ely Ratner, one of Mr. Biden’s deputy national security advisers, wrote in a Foreign Affairs article in 2018 that reflected this shift. “Diplomatic and commercial engagement have not brought political and economic openness. Neither U.S. military power nor regional balancing has stopped Beijing from seeking to displace core components of the U.S.-led system.”

China is just one arena — though probably the most important — where Mr. Biden’s long-held views will come into first contact with new realities.

Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary who served both Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, described Mr. Biden as “impossible not to like” because he was “funny, profane and humorously self-aware of his motormouth.” But Mr. Gates also famously declared that Mr. Biden “has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.”

That assessment included Mr. Biden’s view on Afghanistan — where he argued, in the early days of the Obama administration in 2009, for a minimal force focused on a counterterrorism mission. Mr. Gates later recalled in his memoir that Mr. Biden was convinced that the military was trying to put the squeeze on the president to send more troops for a war the vice president thought was politically unsustainable.

Mr. Biden was overruled — by Mr. Obama, who nearly doubled the force size in Afghanistan in 2009 before moving to a drawdown.

But what was once a setback for Mr. Biden has now become something of a political asset: Mr. Trump’s effort to cast him as an advocate of “endless wars” fell flat. Mr. Biden, according to Mr. Sullivan, “wants to convert our presence to a counterterrorism capability” aimed at protecting the United States by keeping Qaeda forces or the Islamic State from establishing a base in Afghanistan.

“It would be limited and targeted,” Mr. Sullivan said. “That’s where he was in 2009, and that is where he is today.”

In the Cold War, Democrats were often portrayed as the party of appeasement to Moscow. Mr. Biden is the first Democrat to turn the tables: He is neither dismissive of the Russian threat as Mr. Obama was when he debated Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee in 2012, nor is he eager to bring a big red “reset” button to Moscow, as Hillary Clinton did in her opening days as secretary of state. 

In the campaign, Mr. Biden seized on the U.S. intelligence assessment that Russia preferred Mr. Trump, telling reporters in Nevada that “Putin knows me, and I know him, and he doesn’t want me to be president.” He is probably right: After details of the extent of Russian interference in 2016 became clear, followed by Mr. Trump’s unwillingness to confront Mr. Putin, Democrats have become the party of Russia hawks.

For most of the campaign, Mr. Biden assailed Mr. Trump for “cozying up to dictators” and describing how, if elected, he was prepared to punish Russia. As president, Mr. Biden will have to deal with a Russia whose arsenal includes 1,550 deployed nuclear weapons and a raft of tactical nuclear weapons that it has been deploying freely, even before Mr. Trump exited the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.

How would Mr. Biden end the downward spiral? He would start with a five-year extension of New START, Mr. Blinken said in an interview, since the treaty lapses 16 days after inauguration. Then he would seek to expand the treaty to other types of weapons and perhaps more countries. And he would play on Mr. Putin’s growing economic fragility.

“We will deter, and impose costs for, Mr. Putin’s meddling and aggression,” Mr. Blinken said. “But there’s a flip side” to dealing with Moscow, he added. Mr. Putin is “looking to relieve Russia’s growing dependence on China,” Mr. Blinken said, which has left him in “not a very comfortable position.”

That suggests the Biden administration could try to use the suspicions that Moscow and Beijing have of each other to split the two superpowers — just as President Richard M. Nixon used it, in reverse, to win his opening with China nearly 50 years ago.

“Oh, goddamn,” Mr. Biden fumed in the Situation Room in the summer of 2010, according to participants in the meeting, as news began to leak that a highly classified effort by the United States and Israel to destroy Iran’s nuclear program with a cyberweapon — later called “Stuxnet” — was about to be exposed because the computer code was being replicated around the world. “It’s got to be the Israelis. They went too far.”

A decade later, that effort to undermine the Iranian nuclear effort appears to be the birth of a new age of conflict, one in which Mr. Biden was a key player. He favored the covert effort because he was looking for any way to slow Iran’s progress without risking war in the Middle East. He later told colleagues that he believed the covert program helped bring the country to the negotiating table for what became the Iran nuclear deal five years later.

Now Mr. Biden says the first step with Iran is to restore the status quo — which means re-entering the deal if Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is willing to return to production limits announced in 2015. But it won’t be that simple. The Iranians have indicated there will be a higher price to pay for Mr. Trump’s breach. And some of the key restrictions on Iran begin to lift soon: The first phase of an arms embargo expired in October, clearing the way for the Russians and the Chinese to begin resuming sales. And there will soon be a new Iranian president, with unknown effects on potential talks.

Mr. Biden’s aides say that returning to the deal that Mr. Trump left “shifts the burden” back on Tehran.

“If Iran decides it’s not going to come back into compliance,” Mr. Blinken said, “we’re in a much stronger position to elicit support from allies and partners” who are now blaming Mr. Trump for starting the crisis by rejecting an agreement the United States had already made.

In 2012, Mr. Biden was the host when Mr. Xi came to Washington. The vice president praised the guest from Beijing as a rising reformer who was “prepared to show another side of the Chinese leadership.” Mr. Biden was among those to celebrate China’s inevitable but “peaceful rise,” followed by assurance that trying to contain its power was a fool’s errand.

By this year, he had revised his view. “This is a guy who is a thug,” Mr. Biden said.

So during the campaign, he went after Mr. Trump for “fake toughness” and argued that “Trump lost a trade war that he started.” What he meant was that the Trump-era tariffs on Chinese goods were ultimately underwritten by American taxpayers in the form of government subsidies to compensate farmers and others who lost sales.

Mr. Biden has said little about how he would push back. And even if he settles the long-running arguments over agricultural goods and the theft of intellectual property by Beijing, Mr. Biden will face challenges never discussed when Mr. Xi was visiting eight years ago: managing technological inroads by companies like Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant, and TikTok, the app that has seized the imaginations and phones of 100 million Americans.

Mr. Biden has suggested that the Trump crackdowns may continue — though surrounded by more skillful diplomacy to bring European and other allies on board.

“God only knows what they’re doing with information they’re picking up off of here,” he said of the Chinese. “So as president, I will go into it very deeply. I’ll get the cyberexperts in with me to give me what is the best solution to deal with it.”

Complicating the issue is Mr. Biden’s insistence that, unlike Mr. Trump, he will put values back at the center of foreign policy, including how to approach the United States’ relationship with China, a milder echo of Bill Clinton’s pledge in the 1992 presidential race to take on “the butchers of Beijing.”

Presumably that means making China pay a price for Mr. Xi’s controls on dissent, including the national security laws that led to detention camps in Xinjiang, arrests of dissidents in Hong Kong and the ouster of foreign journalists who were the last bastion of independent reporting in China.





No.28 article:
Evo Morales Returns to Bolivia to Cheers — and Worries

Supporters rushed to welcome the divisive former president back from exile, and his party is back in power. But the country’s new leaders have kept their distance.

SANTA CRUZ, Bolivia — Bolivia’s maverick former president, Evo Morales, made a triumphant return to his homeland Monday, a year after his failed attempt to keep power tore the nation apart and sent him into exile.

Mr. Morales, the country’s longest-serving leader, was greeted by brass bands and hundreds of cheering supporters as he walked across the border from Argentina on the dusty and frigid Andean plateau, accompanied by the neighboring country’s president, Alberto Fernández, and a retinue of close allies.

But beyond the jubilant reception, Mr. Morales finds a wary nation anxious to move beyond the political turmoil unleashed by his divisive bid for a fourth presidential term and focused on overcoming a crippling pandemic and economic crisis.

None of the national leaders of Mr. Morales’s socialist political party, which returned to power this month following a calm presidential election, came to greet their mentor at the border. Neither Bolivia’s new president, Luis Arce, nor the vice president, David Choquehuanca, both former ministers in Mr. Morales’s governments, mentioned him in their acceptance speeches on Sunday.

Mr. Arce had made clear during the campaign that Mr. Morales would play no part in his government, if he won — and he went on to handily beat a field of right-leaning candidates who had historically opposed Mr. Morales.

On his return to Bolivia, Mr. Morales echoed the promise, telling supporters that he would dedicate himself to labor activism, where he began his political career.

“I will share my experience in the union struggles, because the fight continues,” he said at the border crossing Monday. “As long as capitalism exists, the people’s fight will continue, I’m convinced of this.”

After the turbulent months that followed Mr. Morales’s departure, when partisan clashes blocked the streets and mistrust in government grew, Bolivia held a rerun of last year’s presidential elections.

The race, which many were afraid would devolve into violence or uncertainty, had a high turnout and a relatively peaceful conclusion, which many Bolivians attributed to a broad desire for stability.

But the return of a controversial leader who had tried a number of tactics to remain in power, including changing the Constitution and stacking the electoral board with supporters, provoked alarm among many, particularly the government’s opponents.

The nation remains deeply divided, and the fragile balance reached during the elections could unravel, some fear.

In the prosperous eastern region of Santa Cruz, protesters went on strike last week and pledged not to recognize the new pro-Morales government, saying there had been fraud but without providing evidence.

“We are worried about his arrival and we reject it,” said Marcelo Pedrazas, an opposition lawmaker, referring to Mr. Morales.

Notably, Mr. Morales remains the head of the country’s largest and most organized political party, Movement to Socialism, or MAS, giving him an important platform to potentially pressure Mr. Arce’s government, said Marcelo Silva, a political scientist at the San Andres Main University in La Paz.

“Luis Arce is trying to mark a sharp separation between his administration and his political party,” he added. “But it’s impossible to separate the actions of the leader of the ruling party from the actions of the head of government.”

Mr. Morales also remains the leader of Bolivia’s powerful coca-growing labor unions, an intensely loyal and well-organized social movement that over the past two decades has rapidly mobilized tens of thousands of members to support its leader in times of crisis.

In a symbolic move, Mr. Morales plans to travel overland from the border to the coca-growing region of Cochabamba in central Bolivia, where he began his political career and from where he fled into exile on a Mexican military plane a year ago.

“We have suffered for 11 months, but now we’re are joyful and proud to have our leader,” Segundina Orellana, a coca-farming activist who traveled to the border to meet Mr. Morales, told local media Monday.

Few in Bolivia believe that Mr. Morales, one of the most successful Latin American politicians of his generation, and who is still adored by a large part of the country’s Indigenous majority, will stick to his stated plans of cultivating grass-roots union leaders and farming trout.

When his legal time in office drew to a close, he argued that people had demanded that he continue to lead Bolivia, and he got allied judges to rule that constitutional term limits violated his human rights.

But his decision to run for a fourth term in office in October 2019 backfired, after the vote’s validity was called into question, Bolivians poured into the streets in protest, and security forces withdrew their support.

Mr. Morales had called his resignation a military coup and took to social media from his exile in Argentina to undermine the right-wing caretaker government that replaced him.

“The Bolivian right wing, financed by North American policies, tried to stop our process of change,” Mr. Morales, dressed in a traditional Andean poncho, told ecstatic supporters in the border town of Villazón on Monday, as they chanted “Evo! Evo! Evo!” and showered him with flowers.

“We have recovered the democracy without violence,” he said.

His return, though expected, is likely to complicate the governing task of Mr. Arce, Mr. Morales’s former finance minister, who won the presidency on the platform of democratic rejuvenation and moderate economic agenda. Mr. Arce received 55 percent of the vote last month, compared with 47 percent obtained by Mr. Morales last year, signaling a desire by many Bolivians to embrace his party’s project but also move beyond the polarization that characterized recent years.

Around 40 people died in the social unrest that followed Mr. Morales’s bid for a fourth term. The caretaker government that replaced him did little to heal the divisions, jailing dozens of Mr. Morales’s officials and supporters and replacing Indigenous symbols and state ceremonies with a conservative Catholic tone.

The political tensions have been exacerbated by the pandemic and the ensuing economic crisis. Bolivia has seen one of the highest coronavirus mortality rates in the world, and its economy is expected to shrink 8 percent this year, pushing tens of thousands back into poverty.

Mr. Morales return now risks undermining Mr. Arce’s efforts to bring the nation together to overcome the crisis, some analysts said.

“What citizens want now is to work, they want normalcy,” said Mr. Silva, the political scientist. “They don’t want more political turmoil.”





No.29 article:
Sharks Wash Up on Beaches, Stabbed by Swordfish

The discovery of impaled sharks on Mediterranean shores backs up old fishermen’s tales of the marine predators dueling with swordfish.

The first victim washed up in September 2016. The police in Valencia, Spain, saw a blue shark dying in the surf along a tiny stretch of beach. They lugged the eight-foot corpse to the yard behind the police station. Then they called Jaime Penadés-Suay, who soon suspected foul play.

The shark had what looked like a bit of wood embedded in her head. He pulled. Out slid a broken fragment from a swordfish sword that had lanced straight through her brain.

“I thought it was crazy,” said Mr. Penadés-Suay, a graduate student at the University of Valencia and a founder of LAMNA, a Spanish consortium that studies sharks. “I was never sure if this was some kind of joke.”

But since then at least six more sharks have washed up on Mediterranean coasts, each impaled with the same murder weapon, and almost always in the head. In the latest example, an adult 15-foot thresher shark — itself equipped with a whiplike tail capable of stunning blows — washed up in Libya. Inside was a foot of swordfish sword that had broken off near its heart.

Taken together these cases offer what may be preliminary scientific evidence of high-speed, high-stakes underwater duels that had previously been confined to fisherman’s tales.

Historically, whalers, fishermen and scholars saw swordfish as stab-happy gladiators. But modern scientists were skeptical. Sure, swordfish sometimes impale boats, whales, submarines and sea turtles. But perhaps these swordfish had aimed for smaller prey, and rammed something else by mistake.

Or maybe not. When sharks die, their bodies typically sink to the bottom of the sea. So a published record of half a dozen stranded sharks with suspiciously precise wounds could indicate that these encounters are common — and that a swordfish sword is sometimes exactly what it sounds like.

“Now at least we have evidence that they might use it really as a weapon, intentionally,” said Patrick Jambura, a graduate student at the University of Vienna.

Mr. Jambura led a study of the recent dead thresher shark, which turned up this April. Sara Al Mabruk at Omar Al-Mukhtar University in Libya had spotted a video posted by local citizen scientists. In the video, a man approaches a shark on the beach, then pulls a sword from its back like a bizarre twist on Arthurian legend. “I was like, ‘Oh come on Sara, we have to do something about this. That’s just incredible,’” Mr. Jambura said.

It’s also puzzling, their team reported this month in the journal Ichthyological Research. Fishermen often catch swordfish with mangled swords, so breaking one isn’t fatal, but they do help their owners swim faster and feed. And they don’t seem to grow back, at least not for adults. So why do some swordfish risk losing them?

Most victims of swordfish stabbings in the Mediterranean have been blue or mako sharks. Both of those species prey on young swordfish, suggesting one explanation: Maybe juvenile swordfish had felt like their lives were threatened and fought back.

But this time the sword fragment looked as if it had come from an adult swordfish, which typically are not eaten by a thresher shark.

Instead, they argue, the swordfish might have been taking out an ecological rival. In the overfished Mediterranean, the swordfish might have fought to ensure a larger share of the remaining scraps.

Mr. Penadés-Suay doubts competition would be enough of a motive given the risks involved in taking on a big, whip-tailed shark. Instead, he thinks, the swordfish might have felt attacked and tried to protect its territory.

Either way, scientists know little about the behavior. Or about swordfish in general, despite how plentiful they are in restaurants and at grocery store fish counters. “Commercial species are only studied for commercial purposes, and that’s a problem,” Mr. Penadés-Suay said.

After partnering with a seafood company, he is now working to measure both a thousand swords and the overall size of the fish that wielded them. That should help scientists extrapolate from the little crime-scene shards left in sharks to the full swordfish that did the deed.

Scientists searching for these rare incidents also want to hear from the public. “Maybe a fisherman for 13 years has been catching sharks, and every year he finds this,” Mr. Penadés-Suay said. “We need everybody to be looking into this.”





No.30 article:
Tom Brady and the Buccaneers Were Blown Out. Was It an Antonio Brown Curse?

Brown, the star receiver with a checkered past on and off the field, made his debut with the Buccaneers amid questions around his comeback.

The matchup had been anticipated all season: Tom Brady and Drew Brees, two sure-shot Hall of Fame quarterbacks nearing the ends of their careers, facing off in prime time on Sunday. The fact that their teams, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the New Orleans Saints, are battling for control of the N.F.C. South only raised the stakes.

This is the N.F.L., though, where troublesome personalities on the field sometimes steal the show, or at least a lot of the attention. In this case, it was the debut of Antonio Brown with the Buccaneers.

Brown, an All-Pro wide receiver returned to the field for the first time in 16 months after tumultuous breakups with three teams, self-destructive explosions on social media and several lawsuits, one of which led to an eight-game suspension. Another one — a civil suit accusing him of sexual assault and rape — may go to trial as soon as next month.

If that were not problematic enough, his return to the field came with the full-throated endorsement, if not machinations, by Brady, who had bonded with Brown during a brief stint with the Patriots and is even lending him a room in his Tampa-area mansion.

In the end, Tampa needed a receiver and was willing to look past any off-field transgressions, though on Sunday they appeared to need a lot more as the Saints blew them out, 38-3, and Brown caught only three passes.

Yet Brown’s return to the N.F.L. — after all his legal troubles, his threats to retire and his bad-mouthing of former employers — raised fresh questions about the league’s tolerance for players who act poorly off the field, particularly when it includes accusations of violence against women, an issue that has dogged the league for years.

The N.F.L. professes to hold players accountable when they damage the league’s brand. And, indeed, the league suspended Brown for eight games this season — a hefty penalty by its standards — and Brown could be suspended again depending on what is disclosed during his civil suit.

But in allowing Brown to suit up yet again, the league risks tacitly normalizing his behavior, which has included fights with a general manager, livestreaming embarrassing video in his team’s locker room and a grievance over which helmet he could wear.

Under the cloak of offering second chances, teams often look past a player’s behavior if he has something to offer on the field. Undeniably, Brown, 32, has been immensely talented. His 68 touchdown receptions since 2013, even after sitting out a season and a half, are still the most among active receivers.

Teams want to win championships and bet that fans and sponsors will also look past players with checkered lives. In that light, Brown is simply another hired gun, albeit one with a trail of burned bridges, hired to get the Buccaneers to the promised land. He joins other mercenaries like Brady, who signed a $60 million, two-year contract in March; Brady’s favorite tight end, Rob Gronkowski, who came out of retirement; and running back Leonard Fournette, who spent three rocky years with the Jacksonville Jaguars.

“Discipline in the N.F.L. has an inverse relationship to a player’s talent on the field,” said Nellie Drew, the director of the Center for the Advancement of Sport at the University at Buffalo School of Law.

In other words, the more talent, the more likely a team looks the other way.

The Buccaneers provided all the usual caveats, some of which required back flips and contortions. Coach Bruce Arians said in March he had no interest in Brown. Now that the team has several injured receivers — and a star quarterback who wanted him — Brown seemed like a better fit. Arians added that there was no inconsistency between his well-deserved record of hiring women and signing a player accused of sexual assault.

Arians noted that Brown had not been convicted of any crimes. (Brown pleaded no contest to felony burglary and battery charges after an altercation with a truck driver, an episode that led to his eight-game suspension.) Arians said that Brown was in “great shape,” had been “positive” and was “moving forward.” Arians and other coaches on the Buccaneers know Brown from their days together with the Pittsburgh Steelers and would provide support.

Even so, Arians suggested Brown would be on a short leash.

“I think let the court system do its job,” Arians said. “I mean allegations, I’ve been around a lot of players facing allegations that weren’t true. Some were. So let the court system handle it, and if it’s found out to be true, he won’t be with us.”

In some ways, Brown is getting less scrutiny than he would in a normal season. Because of the pandemic, fewer fans are in stadiums, so there is less chance of Brown being booed.

Reporters are not allowed in clubhouses this year, so there are no television cameras camped out at his locker. All interviews are done by video conferencing, and team personnel control who asks questions and how long interviews last.

Last week, Brown, who wore a “TB12” cap denoting Brady’s health and wellness company, told reporters that Brady was instrumental in his return and had introduced him to the motivational speaker Tony Robbins. Brown said he has been “working on myself within and without” and “not listening to the naysayers.”

Still, he hoped to “win them over in my actions, how I move forward and how I handle my business.”

Television broadcasters have a different task when discussing Brown because they have a game to produce, too. 

“Nothing should really overwhelm the game except the game itself,” said Fred Gaudelli, the producer of ‘Sunday Night Football’ at NBC Sports. “Brown will be covered but not at the expense of the game.”

On Sunday night, NBC used its pregame show to delve into Brown’s circumstances because there were no unscripted interruptions that might occur during the game. The pregame show, though, has half and sometimes one-third as many viewers as the game.

Mike Tirico, the show’s host, introduced the discussion on Brown as “the latest chapter in a saga that has lasted for nearly two years.” He reeled off a list of Brown’s transgressions and travails, including run-ins with his quarterback in Pittsburgh, injuring his foot in cryotherapy sessions, getting fined tens of thousands of dollars for missing workouts and his release by the New England Patriots after allegations of sexual misconduct.

Hosts went on to assess whether the “Antonio Brown experiment” would “work” in Tampa. “This has to work for him or he’s out of chances,” Michael Holley said. “And by the way, he’s staying at Tom Brady’s house. That has to work out, right?”

Tony Dungy, a former coach, said that Brady’s sponsoring Brown was critical. “Tom Brady, being your quarterback, a veteran, and he vouches for him, and comes to you and says, ‘Coach, we need this guy,’ that definitely impacts your decision-making.”

Rodney Harrison, a former teammate of Brady’s, said the 43-year-old quarterback was “the perfect person to manage Antonio Brown” because he would hold the receiver accountable. Harrison never said what that meant.

Before kickoff, the sideline reporter, Michele Tafoya, summed up Brown’s problems again. But then it was on to football. Brown’s troubles were discussed again only before halftime.

“We’ll see as we move forward,” said Al Michaels, the announcer. “But Bruce Arians making it pretty clear, he toes the line or that’s the end of that.”





No.31 article:
Trump’s Defeat Weakens Boris Johnson in Urgent Brexit Talks

As the European Union knows, the British prime minister can ill afford to threaten peace in Ireland, an issue close to the President-elect Biden’s heart.

LONDON — Few world leaders have felt the fallout of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory more quickly than Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

Mr. Johnson is in the final phases of trying to negotiate a post-Brexit trade agreement with the European Union, a complex challenge that just became more urgent with the defeat of his ally and ideological mate, President Trump.

A failed negotiation with Brussels could stir up tensions between Mr. Johnson and Mr. Biden even before they get to know each other, because it would almost certainly reverberate badly in Ireland. Mr. Biden, who speaks often and fondly of his Irish roots, has already warned Mr. Johnson not to do anything in his trade negotiations that would threaten peace in Northern Ireland.

“The election completely changed the game,” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the political risk consultancy, Eurasia Group.

Unlike Mr. Trump, Mr. Biden opposed Brexit. He is not likely to make a trade deal with London as high a priority as Mr. Trump might have. And he has ruled out such a deal altogether if Britain does anything to water down the protections of Northern Ireland that are enshrined in the Withdrawal Agreement, which set the stage for Britain’s formal departure from the European Union last January.

“If the government doesn’t deliver an E.U. deal and refuses to implement the Withdrawal Agreement,” Mr. Rahman said, “the first discussion Boris Johnson will have with Joe Biden is a row over Northern Ireland.”

British newspapers have been full of stories in recent days raising alarm about the future of the “special relationship” between Britain and the United States, and musing about whether Mr. Johnson and Mr. Biden, who have yet to meet, are destined to be at odds.

After Mr. Johnson congratulated Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on their election, a former White House aide to Barack Obama, Tommy Vietor, said on Twitter, “This shapeshifting creep weighs in. We will never forget your racist comments about Obama and slavish devotion to Trump.”

In 2016, when Mr. Johnson was mayor of London, he noted that Mr. Obama had replaced a bust of Winston Churchill in the Oval Office with one of Martin Luther King Jr. and attributed it to “the part-Kenyan president’s ancestral dislike of the British Empire.” He also once likened Hillary Clinton to Lady Macbeth.

“﻿The comments Boris Johnson has made about Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, who are regarded as family in Biden-land, have not been forgotten, and can’t be brushed aside with a joke,” said Peter Westmacott, a former British ambassador to Washington. “The same goes for his bromance with Donald Trump.”

British officials are steeling themselves for symbolic snubs, like having Mr. Biden call the prime minister of Ireland before Mr. Johnson or making his first European visit as president to Paris, Berlin or Brussels rather than London.

Mr. Johnson’s political dilemma was cast into sharp relief on Monday when Britain’s House of Lords voted down by a large margin clauses in legislation introduced by his government that would rewrite the parts of the Withdrawal Agreement that deal with Northern Ireland. Critics warn that these revisions could lead to the resurrection of a hard border across Ireland and jeopardize the Good Friday Agreement, which ended years of sectarian violence.

For now, the government insists it will push through the legislation in the House of Commons, where Mr. Johnson has an 80-seat majority. As a practical matter, there is little the unelected House of Lords can do to block it since, by convention, the Commons can overturn a vote by the Lords.

Downing Street argues that the new legislation, which is known as the Internal Market Bill and aims to insure that trade flows freely between Britain and Northern Ireland, is a safety net in case there is no trade deal. But it is also popular with hard-line Brexiteers in Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party, who view it as an assertion of British sovereignty, even as members of the Cabinet admit that it breaks international law.

Britain hoped to use the threat of the legislation, analysts said, as leverage to extract better trade terms from the European Union. But the change in power at the White House has scrambled that calculation. Mr. Johnson now must balance his determination to pressure Brussels with his desire not to antagonize Mr. Biden. European officials, well aware of this, now hold the upper hand.

“He’s even more trapped than he was before,” said David Henig, director of the U.K. Trade Policy Project at the European Center for International Political Economy, a research institute. “This administration is unsure which way to turn, even when faced with a clearly changed dynamic.”

Battered by the economic upheaval from the coronavirus pandemic, British businesses are desperate for a trade agreement that would limit further disruption in January when the country quits Europe’s trading system.

Time is running out if an agreement is to be ratified by the European and British Parliaments before the Dec. 31 deadline. There are still significant gaps between the two sides on issues like fishing rights, state aid rules, guarantees of fair market competition and ways to solve future disputes.

Still, Mr. Johnson is viewed as eager to strike a deal. If he comes to terms with Brussels, the government could simply leave the offending clauses out of the Internal Market Bill when it comes back to the House of Commons next month.

The question, Mr. Henig said, was whether Mr. Johnson was willing to lean far enough toward the other side to bridge the gap between “the imagined deal he hopes he can make, and the real deal on offer.”

Analysts said the biggest worry was about how the new calculus would affect France, traditionally the most hard-line country on Brexit trade issues. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, faces his own election in 2022, and France’s negotiation with Britain on fishing rights is politically resonant at home.

If France plays hard ball and Mr. Johnson is viewed as caving in, he would face the wrath of some Conservative Party lawmakers, who are already angry over coronavirus lockdown rules and a succession of embarrassing policy reversals.

As for Mr. Biden, the antipathy of some people who work for him toward Mr. Johnson is genuine, according to former officials. But American and British diplomats both said the fears of a clash between the two men were overblown, in part because of the shared interest of two close allies.

”The Obama and Biden people clearly do despise Boris Johnson,” said Jeremy Shapiro, a former Obama administration official who is the research director of the European Center on Foreign Relations in London. “But so what?”

“They support the idea of allies, particularly European ones, and want to show the world and the American people that they can garner respect in the world that Trump could not,” Mr. Shapiro said. “The U.K. is central to that in the American mind.”





No.32 article:
Thanksgiving Will Soon Empty Campuses. Will Students Bring Coronavirus Home?

Experts worry that some of the hundreds of thousands of departing students will be “little ticking time bombs.”

As Thanksgiving approaches, millions of Americans are weighing the risk of pandemic travel against the yearning to visit friends and family. But one group seems all but certain to be heading home in large numbers just in time for turkey and holiday gatherings: college students.

Since the start of the fall semester, most universities have planned to end in-person classes before Thanksgiving and require students to finish the term remotely, partly to avoid an expected wave of cold-weather infections. That means that in a couple of weeks, hundreds of thousands of students will be streaming back to hometowns until the spring semester begins.

So what are colleges and universities doing to reduce the chances that those students might carry the coronavirus with them?

As has been true with so much of the nation’s pandemic response, the answer is a patchwork of policies, with a minority of schools mandating that students test negative for the coronavirus before they can leave campus — and many more offering little more than optional testing and advice.

Indiana University in Bloomington — where dozens of fraternity and sorority houses had to quarantine in September — will open its weekly surveillance testing to all of the 42,000 students living on or near campus. But the testing will be voluntary for most.

Pennsylvania State University — where off-campus parties around the football opener on Oct. 24 drew a rebuke from President Eric J. Barron — will offer free exit tests and strongly encourage students to get them, but will not make them mandatory for the more than 13,500 students in university housing or the tens of thousands living off-campus.

“We have found that students are responding well to our voluntary, convenient and free walk-up testing sites,” the university said in a statement.

The University of Michigan — where infections recently spiked so severely that local health officials issued a stay-in-place order — will make exit tests mandatory for some 5,000 undergraduates in university housing, but voluntary for thousands more living off-campus.

At the other end of the spectrum, a smaller number of schools are insisting on exit testing.

New York State’s university system — whose Oneonta campus ceased in-person classes in September after more than 700 students tested positive for the virus — will require “all students using on-campus facilities in any capacity” to test negative for the virus within 10 days of their departure, and to quarantine according to county health rules if they test positive, whether they are on or off-campus. The plan will entail testing about 140,000 students at SUNY’s 64 colleges and universities.

Tulane University in New Orleans will test undergraduates twice in the last week of class, including those living off-campus. Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., will require students to show a minimum of two negative coronavirus tests on the week before departure. Those who test positive at Tulane will be offered housing and support and “strongly advised” not to travel, according to a school spokesman, while Hamilton has reserved quarantine rooms at a local hotel and plans to work with local health officials to track down any student who refuses to isolate.

And in Massachusetts, where cases have been surging, Boston University has asked students not to leave campus, period, until Dec. 10, when classes end. 

Epidemiologists recommend that travelers quarantine themselves before traveling for at least a week and receive one or more negative coronavirus test results within three days of departure. Upon arrival, they should again quarantine until receiving one or more negative test results over three days. Those who do not test should quarantine for 14 days before and after traveling.

Calling universities’ Thanksgiving plans “all over the map,” A. David Paltiel, a professor of health policy and management at the Yale School of Public Health, said colleges should be keeping isolation dorms open for students who test positive just before Thanksgiving.

“There’s a responsibility not to unleash little ticking time bombs,” said Dr. Paltiel, noting that recently exposed students can feel well and still shed large quantities of the virus. “But this has not yet hit the radar screen of many college administrators.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have not issued guidance specific to holiday breaks for college students, though it has advised that “travel increases the chance of getting and spreading the virus that causes Covid-19.”

The American College Health Association, which represents college health officers, recently issued public health guidelines recommending that schools encourage students to get tested before their Thanksgiving departure, refrain from traveling if they test positive and quarantine for 14 days at home upon arrival. But the association stopped short of calling for mandatory testing.

Gerri Taylor, co-chair of the organization’s Covid-19 task force, said that while testing is key, many financially strapped colleges could not afford it.

More than a third of the country’s colleges and universities invited students back for the fall with some degree of socially distanced campus housing or face-to-face instruction, according to the College Crisis Initiative and the Chronicle of Higher Education, which have been tracking about 3,000 schools.

The New York Times has documented more than 252,000 coronavirus cases and at least 80 deaths on college campuses since the pandemic began. Most of the deaths involved college employees in the spring. But at least four students have died this semester after contracting Covid-19.

Nationally, the virus has continued to smash records, averaging 111,175 cases per day over the past week. Infected people are most contagious in the days before they display symptoms, and up to 40 percent are asymptomatic, according to C.D.C. research. That is why epidemiologists cite fast, widespread and frequent testing of people with and without symptoms as the best way to pinpoint and contain outbreaks.

That level of testing has posed an immense financial hurdle for the many colleges that have had to cut budgets, lay off or furlough faculty and spend millions on health measures during the pandemic.

Some schools — mostly small, rural schools with limited sports programs and Greek life — mandated frequent and widespread testing and contact tracing, sent scofflaws home and managed, often at significant cost, to allow students to keep attending face-to-face classes and living in dorms. Others have opted for less aggressive — and generally less successful — measures, such as testing only volunteers or people with symptoms.

Colby College, which has required twice-a-week testing and largely kept the virus at bay throughout the semester, will test its roughly 2,000 students on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of Thanksgiving week. If they test positive, the college will house and feed students for two weeks or work with Maine health authorities on alternate plans for isolation.

It will also offer a free flu shot before sending students home. They will be required to be tested before they return to the campus in Waterville, Maine, early next year, and will be immediately tested upon their arrival at school — and then again two days later, remaining in quarantine until they are clear.

Indiana University has been testing a sampling of its faculty, staff and students each week to identify and contain outbreaks. After starting the semester with nearly 6 percent of those tests returning positive, the Bloomington campus is now at about 1 percent, considered very low, Chuck Carney, a university spokesman, said. The university has recorded more than 3,100 cases since the beginning of the pandemic.

But while the university is offering testing to all students just before Thanksgiving, most students will not be required to take one.

“I would rather give people as much information as possible and trust that they’re going to make a decision that’s best for them and their families instead of putting down rules that could be broken,” said Erika Cheng, the university’s deputy director for mitigation testing.

Sheldon Jacobson, a risk assessment specialist and professor of computer science at the University of Illinois who has studied the pandemic’s impact on campuses, said many colleges were getting better at containing outbreaks and reducing infection levels, though some large ones continue to struggle.

“Most of the students will be going to communities with higher infection rates than where they’re leaving,” Dr. Jacobson said.

Even so, Dr. Paltiel said testing should be mandatory. Voluntary exit tests, he said, merely bring out “the worried well and the symptomatic.” And not testing and quarantining again when students get home ignores the real possibility that they could be infected while traveling.

“The last thing you want to do is put a whole bunch of students on planes, trains and automobiles, with many of them potentially exposed but not yet exhibiting symptoms, and ship them home to mom and dad,” he said.





No.33 article:
U.A.E. Changes Laws to Attract Foreign Tourists and Investment

The United Arab Emirates is abolishing lenient sentences for so-called honor killings, loosening alcohol restrictions and lessening the sway of Islamic law over foreigners.

BEIRUT, Lebanon — The United Arab Emirates announced a series of legal changes over the weekend that improved protections for women, loosened regulations on alcohol consumption and expanded the ability of noncitizens to follow foreign laws for inheritance and divorce.

The moves diminish the role of Islamic legal codes in the gulf Arab country’s justice system as it seeks to enhance its brand as a globalized, forward-looking place attractive to foreign tourists, professionals and investors.

The Emirates, which this year became the third Arab country to normalize relations with Israel, hopes to welcome Israeli tourist and investors and is planning to host a world exposition next year that is expected to draw millions of visitors.

Nearly 90 percent of the 10 million people living in the Emirates are foreigners. While most are low-paid laborers from South Asia, the rest include professionals from the United States, Europe and other Arab countries.

That diversity of culture and religion has at times run headlong into the country’s laws, which are based on Islamic law, or Shariah. While the authorities willfully ignore many violations, foreigners have on occasion been arrested for such crimes as posting satirical videos online, public drunkenness or kissing.

The state-run Emirates News Agency announced the changes on Sunday, saying they would promote tolerance and improve the country’s place “as one of the most socially and economically attractive countries in the world.”

The National, a government-linked newspaper based in the capital, Abu Dhabi, called the changes “one of the biggest overhauls of the legal system in years.”

The newspaper reported that light sentences would be eliminated for so-called honor crimes, meaning when men abuse or kill female relatives for what are deemed to be improper relations with other men. Going forward, such crimes would be handled like other types of assault or homicide, the report said.

The changes also toughened the law against sexual harassment, increasing the maximum fine to about $27,000.

Other changes altered the laws governing divorce and inheritance for non-Emirati citizens.

Divorces in the Emirates will now follow the law in the country where the marriage was conducted, the paper reported. Previously, divorces for non-Muslims followed the laws in the husband’s home country, and divorces between Muslims were carried out according to Shariah.

Under the new laws, inheritance will be governed by the laws of the deceased’s home country. Previously, inheritance for Muslims was carried out according to Shariah, which usually allots female heirs half of what male heirs get, and non-Muslim heirs could petition to have their home country’s laws applied.

The National also reported that drinking alcohol, attempting suicide and the cohabitation of unmarried women and men would be decriminalized.

But it was not immediately clear how the new legal regime would be enforced, since local judicial authorities of the country’s seven emirates have considerable leeway in applying the laws, with the ability to determine, for example, where alcohol can be legally sold.

“Some of these reforms are quite important,” said Rothna Begum, senior women’s rights researcher at Human Rights Watch, specifically mentioning the decriminalization of attempted suicide and the removal of lenient sentences “that allow men to kill and harm women in the name of honor.”

But she had not seen the actual texts of the new laws, making it hard to judge their scope.

The changes to divorce laws did not apply to Emirati women, leaving them subject to laws Ms. Begum called discriminatory. And it was not clear whether the changes that allowed cohabitation of unmarried couples removed so-called indecency laws used to punish extramarital sex, she said.

Those laws had disproportionately been used against migrant women, she said, and allowed women who reported being raped to be prosecuted for adultery.

The new laws aimed to improve the country’s image ahead of Expo 2020, a global fair that was scheduled to be held in Dubai this October but was postponed until next year because of the coronavirus pandemic, Ms. Begum said. But they needed to be applied equally to everyone in the country.

“You can get away with a lot in Dubai,” she said. “The problem is that they still have a lot of discrimination depending on who you are.”





No.34 article:
A Collective Sigh of Relief Pushes the Stock Market Up

News of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine progress, and Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory, gave investors reason to cheer.

Nothing drags down a market like uncertainty. So on Monday, as clarity emerged around two of the year’s most pressing concerns — the presidential election and the coronavirus — investors let out the equivalent of a street cheer and rushed to buy stocks, placing bullish bets on a return to normalcy.

The S&amp;P 500 stock index soared after Pfizer announced positive results from its early Covid-19 vaccine trials. The news came two days after Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the president-elect — putting to rest for now the specter of chaos and political unrest that many investors had feared would follow a loss by President Trump.

Markets had already been on the upswing, as investors warmed to the possibility last week that Mr. Biden would win the presidency and that Republicans could maintain their grip on the Senate. Many investors view a divided government as a positive development because it would rein in Democratic priorities such as higher taxes and major regulatory overhauls, which some consider a potential risk to stock prices. That reasoning was partly behind the S&amp;P 500’s 7.3 percent climb last week — its best weekly performance since April.

“There’s a palpable sense of relief in the market today, and that is kind of the dominant feeling,” said Kate Moore, a strategist on BlackRock’s Global Allocation Fund. “Relief that we’ve had an orderly election. Relief that the vaccine data is stronger, at least from Pfizer, than many anticipated.”

The momentum gathered pace when, shortly before 7 a.m. on Monday, Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech, said their Covid-19 vaccine candidate had demonstrated 90 percent efficacy in clinical trials. While analysts had long assumed a vaccine would emerge from the many candidates currently in trials, the efficacy rate was significantly higher than what many were expecting.

The higher rate, said Ajay Rajadhyaksha, a macroeconomic analyst with Barclays in New York, was a “significant positive surprise” that “increases the odds of a quicker return to normalcy.”

The S&amp;P 500 soared nearly 4 percent after trading opened on Wall Street before losing steam late in the day and closing 1.2 percent higher. The market gave up one percentage point of gains in the final half-hour of trading after the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said Mr. Trump was “100 percent within his rights” to challenge the outcome of the election — a reminder to investors that political uncertainty could linger.

The Dow Jones industrial average jumped nearly 3 percent, led by a gain of 21 percent for American Express, while Boeing rose 14 percent. The domestically focused Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks surged 3.7 percent.

Major markets across Asia and Europe also posted significant gains. Even before the vaccine news was announced, Japan’s Nikkei 225 was up more than 2 percent. China’s CSI 300 was up nearly 2 percent.

Markets in Europe — where a resurgence of Covid cases has prompted renewed lockdowns in Germany, France and Britain — romped higher once Pfizer disclosed its results. Britain’s FTSE-100 was up nearly 5 percent, as was Germany’s DAX. France’s CAC-40 rose 7.6 percent.

With little changed on the ground, the market’s exuberance can be confounding. After all, the United States is still setting records for new coronavirus cases, the economy is still in the grip of a recession, and it could be months before a vaccine is widely available. But investing by its nature looks to the future, and on Monday investors were basing their buying and selling on their expectations of what the world could look like in a few months, rather than what it looks like today.

“Any investment or stock that does well when people can gather together in person has meaningfully outperformed today,” Ms. Moore of BlackRock said.

Carnival, the cruise line, rose nearly 40 percent. The Simon Property Group and Kimco Realty, which own shopping centers, rose 28 percent and 32 percent. The concert promoter Live Nation climbed nearly 15 percent, and Wynn Resorts 28 percent.

The shares of office building owners rose sharply, too. Vornado Realty Trust rose 27 percent, while SL Green, which focuses on Manhattan, jumped 37 percent.

“If this vaccine data is legitimate, we could see a return to office work,” said Randy Watts, chief investment officer for O’Neil Global Advisors, a financial advisory firm.

On the flip side, investors dumped shares of the companies that have come to define the pandemic economy. Peloton plunged more than 20 percent, Zoom and Etsy tumbled 17 percent, and Shopify fell nearly 14 percent.

Prices for government bonds — where investors traditionally park funds during times of uncertainty — dropped sharply, pushing yields, which move in the opposite direction, to some of the highest sustained levels in months. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 0.95 percent on the day, its highest level since the pandemic struck this year. The rise in yields reflects growing optimism among investors for economic growth.

Benchmark American crude oil prices were catapulted 8.5 percent higher to $40.29 a barrel on renewed optimism about global demand in a recovery. The energy sector was the best-performing part of the S&amp;P 500, rising more than 14 percent.

On Wall Street, trading desks buzzed as large investors urgently sought to make trades. By around 11 a.m., the brokerage firm Liquidnet — which specializes in executing trades of large blocks of shares for institutional investors — had already seen roughly an entire day’s worth of trading activity, said Simon Maughan, a top trader at Liquidnet.

Despite the outsize market moves on Monday, several analysts suggested that there were reasons for investors to be cautious. Stock prices have staged an enormous turnaround, rising nearly 9 percent in six trading sessions.

“These are the types of moves that tend to run out of gas if the underlying data doesn’t quickly confirm the enthusiasm,” said Lisa Shalett, chief investment officer at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.

In the near term, the data on the growth of the virus in the United States is clearly moving in the wrong direction. Case counts have hit record highs in recent days, and continue to run at more than 100,000 new infections a day. Several analysts say the rampant spread of the virus could prompt a return of restrictions that could hurt the American economy over the coming months.

Despite Pfizer’s encouraging update, there is considerable uncertainty about the path forward for the vaccine. Independent scientists have warned against hyping early results without adequate long-term safety and efficacy data. It remains unclear how long the Pfizer vaccine’s protection might last against the virus. And even if the drug is approved, the production and distribution of hundreds of millions of doses will be daunting challenges.

“The difference between having a vaccination and having 330 million vaccinations is huge,” said Scott Clemons, chief investment strategist for private banking at Brown Brothers Harriman, an investment bank. “So you’ve still got the possibility of more economic weakness, maybe even the possibility of a double-dip recession until that vaccine is available.”





No.35 article:
Trading Blame and Worry, Notre Dame Grapples With Celebration’s Fallout

The university’s president promised strict punishments for students who break virus protocols. But his credibility on campus is wearing thin.

As soon as the final whistle blew, signaling that last-gasp laterals would not prevent the Notre Dame football team from its biggest win in a generation — a 47-40 double-overtime defeat of top-ranked Clemson on Saturday night — a can’t-look-away scene unfolded at Notre Dame Stadium.

Thousands of students leapt over brick walls, dashed past overwhelmed security guards and stormed the field, gleefully mobbing the Notre Dame players and one another. They reveled for more than 15 minutes, ignoring announcements to retreat.

In normal times, a scene like this is a rite of college football. But these are not normal times.

In this stripped-down pandemic football season, devoid of pageantry and sold-out stadiums, and with nearly 50 games postponed or canceled as universities struggle with the virus, the sight of thousands of mostly masked marauders creating a mosh pit at midfield was jarring enough that the NBC broadcaster Mike Tirico observed: “In the midst of the pandemic, there is pandemonium in South Bend.”

To which his analyst, Tony Dungy, laughed, adding, “And not quite social distancing.”

Saturday was a historic day, of course, not just for those who follow Notre Dame football, but also because the most rancorous and drawn-out presidential election of a lifetime was decided. The victory of Joseph R. Biden Jr. over President Trump brought forth its own impromptu celebrations in streets around the country — some more masked and socially distant than others.

Eight months into the pandemic, a central, unresolved question again emerged: How much risk should be tolerated for easing restrictions on large gatherings? And, as a corollary, for what benefit?

The risks of attending a march protesting police brutality, a motorcycle rally in South Dakota, a Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn or a Supreme Court judicial announcement at the White House carry different weight to different people. The same holds for college football.

The push by colleges to play football has been driven by billions of dollars in television revenue, but the top conferences have treated attendance differently. Some have reduced the number of paying fans; others have limited spectators to families and staff. Some enforce mask wearing and social distancing; others do not. Some allow tailgating; others keep their parking lots closed.

Notre Dame allowed 11,011 spectators on Saturday — about a seventh of the stadium’s capacity — and 75 percent of those attendees were students. The others were almost exclusively staff, faculty and family members of players on both teams.

“We took the position that if students could play the game, students should be allowed to be at the game,” Jack Swarbrick, the Notre Dame athletic director, said on Sunday. He said that position aligned with the university’s decision to bring its 12,700 students back to campus, which the Rev. John I. Jenkins, the university president, argued was a moral obligation.

The university has thus far administered nearly 70,000 tests for the coronavirus. But those tests, and other commonly used protocols, have hardly kept the virus at bay. Classrooms were briefly shut down early this semester after cases spiked. After a lull, they surged even higher this month — mirroring what is happening around the region and the country.

Cases in St. Joseph County in Indiana, where South Bend is, reached a high last week with a seven-day average of 63 cases per 100,000 residents, according to the county public health department. (The Harvard Global Health Institute suggests stay-at-home orders for communities with more than 25 cases per 100,000.) On Sunday, 267 new cases were reported by the county.

The football team, even with more rigorous testing than the student body, has not escaped the reach of the virus. Practice was shut down briefly in August, and a game was postponed in September after at least 18 players tested positive.

Still, university and public health officials were pleased with how the first four games proceeded, with extensive precautions, almost no fans from outside South Bend and relatively comfortable victories.

Notre Dame knew its game against Clemson might be different. It added 35 more police officers, 40 additional ushers and dozens more in event staff and private security guards. Swarbrick asked students to forgo a tradition at the final home game for seniors — throwing marshmallows at one another just before halftime.

And Brian Kelly, the Notre Dame coach, as a way to inspire his players, told them that the fans would storm the field if they won. (The university planned to allow seniors on the field after both teams exited for their locker rooms.)

After the team’s late comeback in the fourth quarter, students moved down and crowded close to the field as overtime began. As the energy in the stadium built, Swarbrick said a tactical decision was made to not have the security, which was meant to keep students from rushing the field, push back out of fear that students might be crushed.

Mark Fox, the county’s deputy health director, who since August has advised the university’s approach to the pandemic, watched students pour over the wall from a perch near the top of the stadium. He could not recall any public-address warnings until after they were on the field.

“I was sick to my stomach,” Fox said. “I felt really ineffective as a public health person. I felt like I was wringing my hands and asking the woulda, shoulda, coulda questions, and that’s an uncomfortable place to be.”

He added: “If you’re confident going in and anticipating a win, this should have been part of the anticipation package. We talked about how the messaging could have been better. Having riot police might have been the only thing we could have done to keep them off the field. In hindsight, is there anything that could have been or should have been done? Yeah, probably so.”

The Sunday morning quarterbacking from Jenkins was not directed inward.

In a letter to students on Sunday night, he called their “widespread disregard” of health protocols at many gatherings over the weekend “very disappointing.” (A spokesman said Jenkins was referring not to the football game — where nearly two-thirds of the student body was — but to other parties.) Jenkins announced that students would not be allowed to graduate or register for classes next semester if they failed to take upcoming virus tests scheduled to begin Thursday, or if they left South Bend before getting their results.

He also said that there would be “zero tolerance” for on-campus or off-campus gatherings that violated the school’s health and safety guidelines and that the hosts of such gatherings would face “severe sanctions.”

Jenkins urged students to emulate the football team and finish strong.

Credibility for Jenkins on campus, though, is thin. He apologized in August when he posed for photos with students returning to campus without following the university’s social distancing rules. And he appeared without a mask at the White House reception for Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination to the Supreme Court — an event where dozens were infected. Jenkins tested positive for the virus afterward as well.

In an email on Monday to faculty and staff, Dan Lindley, an associate professor of political science, urged school leaders to lock down campus for the rest of the semester. Classes end on Thursday before final exams begin. His letter was in response to one Sunday night by the university’s provost and vice president saying the school would not shut down classes.

Lindley criticized Jenkins’s “finish strong” message, saying it was more likely “to finish with a disaster.” Lindley added that without a lockdown accompanying increased testing, the spread would only worsen and more students would head home for Thanksgiving carrying the virus.

“The numbers and this email from the Provost show that we are facing a disaster,” Lindley wrote. “Now act like it.”

Eileen Hunt Botting, a Notre Dame political science professor, said the university had lost its moral compass in recent weeks. She said that with cases surging, extensive restrictions and the recent death of two freshmen in a car accident, football was held out as a carrot to a reeling student body. That students rushed the field should have surprised no one.

“I find this so ethically troubling,” Hunt Botting said. “Notre Dame set the students up exactly for what they’re not supposed to do. Father Jenkins is clearly complicit in setting our students up for failure.”

How the virus might have spread on Saturday night will be unclear for days or weeks. Fox, the public health official, said it might be difficult to trace new cases to the crush of students. He was somewhat heartened that many wore masks as they poured onto the field.

“But a mask alone in that situation doesn’t offer a lot of protection,” he said. “I’ve got to assume there were 5,000 or 6,000 kids on the field, and even though there were some pretty remarkable efforts to limit the number of students who were positive, I’ve got to assume there are some. Because of the shouting and hugging and the close proximity, there will be other infections stemming from that.”

In the aftermath, Fox has considered all the resources that have gone into keeping Notre Dame players healthy, and how there seems to be little evidence thus far that players have transmitted the virus while playing a sport whose essence is antithetical to social distancing.

“Maybe that’s where the calculus is wrong,” he said.

Instead, as games become more meaningful and the virus shows signs of accelerating, the pertinent question in bars, dormitories, tailgating lots and stadiums may not be how to mitigate the risk from playing college football. It may be how to remove the risk from watching it.





No.36 article:
Alexander Hamilton, Enslaver? New Research Says Yes

A paper by a researcher at the Schuyler Mansion finds overlooked evidence in letters and Hamilton’s own account books indicating that he bought, sold and personally owned slaves.

The question has lingered around the edges of the pop-culture ascendancy of Alexander Hamilton: Did the 10-dollar founding father, celebrated in the musical “Hamilton” as a “revolutionary manumission abolitionist,” actually own slaves?

Some biographers have gingerly addressed the matter over the years, often in footnotes or passing references. But a new research paper released by the Schuyler Mansion State Historic Site in Albany, N.Y., offers the most ringing case yet.

In the paper, titled “‘As Odious and Immoral a Thing’: Alexander Hamilton’s Hidden History as an Enslaver,” Jessie Serfilippi, a historical interpreter at the mansion, examines letters, account books and other documents. Her conclusion — about Hamilton, and what she suggests is wishful thinking on the part of many of his modern-day admirers — is blunt.

“Not only did Alexander Hamilton enslave people, but his involvement in the institution of slavery was essential to his identity, both personally and professionally,” she writes.

“It is vital,” she adds, “that the myth of Hamilton as ‘the Abolitionist Founding Father’ end.”

The evidence cited in the paper, which was quietly published online last month, is not entirely new. But Ms. Serfilippi’s forceful case has caught the eye of historians, particularly those who have questioned what they see as his inflated antislavery credentials.

Annette Gordon-Reed, a professor of history and law at Harvard and the author of “The Hemingses of Monticello,” called the paper “fascinating” and the argument plausible. “It just shows that the founders were nearly all implicated in slavery in some way,” she said.

Joanne Freeman, a professor of history at Yale and editor of the Library of America edition of Hamilton’s writings, said that the detailed evidence remained to be fully weighed. But she said the paper was part of a welcome reconsideration of what she called “the Hero Hamilton” narrative.

“It’s fitting that we are reckoning with Hamilton’s status as an enslaver at a time that is driving home how vital it is for white Americans to reckon — seriously reckon — with the structural legacies of slavery in America,” she wrote in an email.

Ms. Serfilippi’s research “complicates his story, and in so doing, better reflects the central place of slavery in America’s Founding,” she said. “It also more accurately reflects Hamilton.”

But Ron Chernow, whose 2004 biography calls Hamilton an “uncompromising abolitionist,” said the paper presented a lopsidedly negative view.

The paper, he said in an email, “seems to be a terrific research job that broadens our sense of Hamilton’s involvement in slavery in a number of ways.” But he said he was dismayed at the relative lack of attention to Hamilton’s antislavery activities. And he questioned what he called her sometimes “bald conclusions,” starting with the claim that slavery was “essential to his identity.”

“I don’t fault Jessie Serfilippi for her tough scrutiny of Hamilton and slavery,” he said. “The great figures in our history deserve such rigor. But she omits all information that would contradict her conclusions.”

Hamilton married into the powerful Schuyler family in 1780. Slavery was common among New York State’s elite, and the Schuylers were some of the largest slaveholders in their area, with more than 40 people enslaved at the Albany mansion and another estate over the years.

In recent years, the mansion has done extensive research into “the servants” (as the enslaved people of the household were usually referred to), which has been incorporated into its tours. That the Schuylers were enslavers does not necessarily shock visitors, Ms. Serfilippi said. But the extent of Hamilton’s connections with slavery is a different story.

“There are some people who come here knowing he wasn’t exactly an abolitionist,” she said. “But there is surprise when I talk about the details of the research.”

Travis Bowman, the senior curator for the New York State Bureau of Historic Sites, who supervised the internal review of Ms. Serfilippi’s paper, said the relative lack of research on enslaved people in Hamilton’s household partly reflects the overall paucity of scholarship on Northern slavery. And the complexities of gradual abolition (New York’s gradual abolition law of 1799 phased slavery out over decades) makes tracking enslaved people, and clearly determining their status, particularly difficult.

“It’s a very odd period,” Mr. Bowman said. “Many people were granting half-freedom. If enslaved people walked away, they didn’t go after them.”

The idea that Hamilton stood apart from the institution goes back to the very first biography of him, by his son John Church Hamilton, who asserted in 1841 that his father “never owned a slave.”

That claim was flatly contradicted by Hamilton’s grandson, Allan McLane Hamilton. In his 1910 biography, he called it “untrue,” noting that Hamilton’s own account books included entries showing him purchasing slaves for himself and others.

But the idea of a resolutely antislavery Hamilton has endured, and has become more pronounced in recent decades. It’s certainly an image that appeals to contemporary readers seeking a founding father relatively untainted by slavery.

In her paper, Ms. Serfilippi challenges what she suggests are persistent myths, starting with the much-repeated claim that his childhood exposure to the brutalities of slavery on St. Croix left him with what Mr. Chernow, in his biography, calls “a settled antipathy to slavery.”

“To date,” she writes, echoing other scholars, “no primary sources have been found to corroborate” the notion that Hamilton’s childhood instilled a hatred of slavery.

Hamilton did criticize slavery at different points in his life, and compared with most white contemporaries held enlightened views on the abilities of Black people. He was also an early member of the New-York Manumission Society, founded in 1785 to advocate gradual abolition and encourage voluntary freeing of the enslaved. (A number of members, including Philip Schuyler, his father-in-law, were slave owners.)

But Ms. Serfilippi also notes documented cases of Hamilton consulting with legal clients on slavery-related issues. Hamilton would not likely have been hired for such work, she argues, “if he were known amongst his peers as having only abolitionist leanings.”

That Hamilton helped legal clients and family members, including his sister-in-law Angelica Schuyler Church, buy and sell enslaved people, has been noted by biographers. But whether Hamilton enslaved people in his own household is a murkier question.

Some modern biographers, Ms. Serfilippi notes, do address the question, if often briefly. In his biography, Mr. Chernow writes that Hamilton and his wife, Elizabeth, “may have owned one or two household slaves,” citing “three oblique hints in his papers.” But she offers a more definitive reading, arguing that a range of primary sources “prove Hamilton purchased enslaved people for himself.”

Her case rests in large part on notations in his cash books and in family letters. For example, in May 1781, six months after his marriage to Elizabeth, Hamilton wrote to George Clinton, mentioning waiting for a sum of money “to pay the value of the woman Mrs. H[amilton] had of Mrs. Clinton.”

Some historians, she writes, have read this as paying for the value of her labor. But Hamilton, Ms. Serfilippi argues, was clearly “exchanging money for the woman herself.”

She also cites a number of similar references in other letters, corroborated, she asserts, by information in the cash books. For example, in an August 1795 letter to Hamilton, Philip Schuyler refers to “a Negro boy and woman engaged for you.” In March 1796, Hamilton’s cash books record a payment of $250 to Schuyler for “2 Negro servants purchased by him for me.”

Ms. Serfilippi also cites several letters by Philip Schuyler referring to “maids” traveling with Elizabeth and the Hamilton children, at a time when Hamilton’s cash books, she argues, show no record of wages to maids — an indication, she says, that they were enslaved.

In another entry in the cash book, from June 1798, Hamilton records receiving $100 for the “term” of a “Negro boy.” That Hamilton could lease him out to another person — a common practice — “absolutely indicates that Hamilton enslaved the boy,” Ms. Serfilippi writes.

And the Hamiltons, Ms. Serfilippi contends, appear to have enslaved people up until the time of Hamilton’s death.

She points to a piece of paper included near the end of the cash book, giving an inventory of Hamilton’s property apparently made after his death in the duel with Aaron Burr in July 1804. The inventory, which includes estimated values, lists his house and his furniture and books. It also lists “servants,” who are also assigned an estimated value.

Hamilton’s own inventory, which he made shortly before the duel, includes no reference to servants. But Ms. Serfilippi believes the posthumous inventory, drawn up to settle his affairs, is more likely to be accurate.

“The Hamiltons were in debt,” she said. “It would make sense to include everything within their possession.”

It remains to be seen if Ms. Serfilippi’s firm conclusions will be broadly accepted by scholars. To her, what’s at stake is more than just how we see Hamilton.

“When we say Hamilton didn’t enslave people, we’re erasing them from the story,” she said. “The most important thing is they were here. We need to acknowledge them.”





No.37 article:
N.Y.C. Dangerously Close to Second Wave, Mayor Says, as New Rules Loom

The spike in virus cases threatens the city’s recovery and could mean “a lot more restrictions,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said.

[Read more on NYC school closings due to Covid-19]

As coronavirus cases surged to record highs across the country, New York City had hoped to keep the outbreak at bay and press ahead with its slow but steady recovery from the dark days of spring. But now, the forecast is turning more alarming.

The number of new infections is swiftly rising, with more than 1,000 cases identified in the city for five days in a row, a level that last occurred in May, according to the state’s Department of Health. Just a month ago, daily cases were typically in the 500 to 700 range.

Hospitalizations and death rates are a small fraction of what they were at the height of the outbreak in the spring, and case count comparisons can be tricky, given that much more testing is occurring now. The test positivity rate in New York City is still well below that in neighboring states.

But as cases continue to surge in New Jersey, Connecticut and upstate New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Monday that the city was dealing with an “immense” challenge.

“We have to stop a second wave from happening here,” Mr. de Blasio said during a news conference. “It is getting dangerously close.”

The city’s contact-tracing program has disclosed few details about which trends and patterns are contributing to transmission. But one city health official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to share details from internal discussions, said some clusters had been traced to workplaces, including construction sites and offices.

City health officials and Mr. de Blasio’s aides have been discussing whether new citywide restrictions should be imposed, including a broader shutdown of nonessential businesses, if the seven-day average rate of positive test results climbs, and stays, above 3 percent. The seven-day average was 2.26 percent, according to the city’s health department.

The mayor said that further lockdowns were possible should New York City not regain control of the virus.

“God forbid this continued and we had a full-blown second wave,” he said. “It means a lot more restrictions. Unfortunately, it could mean even having to shut down parts of our economy again.”

It could also mean having to close schools, he said.

“There’s one last chance to stop that, and we need everyone to participate,” Mr. de Blasio said.

The mayor said he is watching three indicators to determine if the city is dealing with a “full-blown second wave”: the overall number of cases in New York City; the positivity rate, which should not breach 3 percent “on a sustained basis”; and the number of hospitalizations, which he doesn’t want to exceed 200 a day.

Staten Island has recently emerged as a particular area of concern, with the positivity rate in the neighborhood of Tottenville exceeding 6 percent. Several other neighborhoods have rates surpassing 3 percent.

There are some signs that Mr. de Blasio may be reluctant to impose new restrictions, which would require the acquiescence of the governor.

The mayor has previously said that he favored halting indoor dining if the seven-day positivity rate reached 2 percent — a threshold that has already been crossed without his taking any action.

On Monday, the mayor would only say that it was time to re-evaluate the wisdom of allowing limited indoor dining.

The city health official said mayoral aides and health department officials were discussing whether the mayor should begin urging New Yorkers to cut back on visiting friends or resume working from home if they can — a recommendation that would hinder the return of workers to Midtown Manhattan office buildings, which are showing a few tentative signs of life.

In a news conference on Monday, Mr. Cuomo said that state officials are monitoring the numbers but are not taking any immediate action.

“This is going to be the constant for the foreseeable future,” the governor said. “Every couple of days we’ll say, ‘This place became a microcluster, this place is no longer a microcluster.’ ”

Mr. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, also reiterated that the effectiveness of any state restrictions would be dependent on local enforcement — which he has criticized in the past — as well as on individuals’ compliance with social distancing and mask rules.

“We’re tired of Covid, but Covid isn’t tired of us,” he said. “People have to be rigorous and disciplined about their behavior.”

He also rejected the idea that the state was seeing a “surge” in cases, noting that other states have far higher rates of infection. 

One epidemiologist, Denis Nash, a professor at the City University of New York School of Public Health, said that while transmission in New York City was increasing — and had been for some time — the increase in hospitalizations and deaths was lower than expected.

He said he believed it was too soon to return to lockdowns or mass closures of workplaces or schools.

“We haven’t gotten to that place yet,” he said, though he added that it might make sense to reconsider the decision to allow indoor dining, an activity regarded as relatively high-risk.

At stake is much of New York City’s recovery from the pandemic, which had a devastating impact in the early months, killing tens of thousands, sickening many more and severely undermining the local economy. The city has since become a national model for curbing the outbreak, bringing children back to public schools for in-person classes, allowing limited indoor dining and reopening museums, hair salons and gyms.

New York had already been contending with localized spikes in some neighborhoods, including those with many ultra-Orthodox Jewish residents, leading Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio to adopt new restrictions in those areas.

But given the course of the outbreak nationally, it was not entirely clear whether the broader increases across the city could be traced to those neighborhoods.

In New York City, the numbers are up in all five boroughs, with 1,156 new cases reported on Sunday.

“This is going to be a really key week,” said City Councilman Mark Levine of Manhattan, who is chairman of the council’s Health Committee.

Mr. Levine said he feared that “the window is closing to prevent much more aggressive shutdown measures” and that if the case count kept climbing, the city would most likely end up in a lockdown reminiscent of the spring.

Robyn Gershon, an epidemiology professor at the New York University School of Global Public Health, said she was “cautiously optimistic” that New York City would be able to bring transmission down and praised Governor Cuomo’s “microcluster strategy” of color-coding neighborhoods — with the colors corresponding to restrictions.

Mr. Nash, the epidemiology professor, said that encouraging news about the vaccine should be incorporated into City Hall’s advice to New Yorkers: With a vaccine on the horizon, they should redouble their efforts to wear masks and socially distance.

“The message should be: ‘We’ve gotten this far, we just have to keep it going for a little longer.’ We need to hold out for a promising and safe and effective vaccine,” he said.

In New Jersey, Gov. Philip D. Murphy, noting that hoped-for vaccines are inching closer to approval, announced new coronavirus restrictions on Monday, rolling back his reopening strategy to confront a statewide infection rate that has reached levels not seen since the pandemic ravaged cities and towns across the Northeast.

Mr. Murphy, a Democrat, said early Monday that the rules were designed to “shave at the edges,” without returning to a strict statewide shutdown like the one enacted in March.

Under the new restrictions, which begin Thursday, restaurants and nightclubs across the state must close to indoor customers at 10 p.m., and no one may be seated directly at the bar.

High school sports teams are not permitted to participate in out-of-state tournaments, but college athletes may still travel.

Mr. Murphy said he would continue to consider additional targeted restrictions on nonessential businesses.

“Let’s focus, folks, on these upcoming six months,” Mr. Murphy said. “This is not forever and always. We basically have a six-month window to beat the fatigue back and beat the virus into the ground.”





No.38 article:
Could Listening to the Deep Sea Help Save It?

You might know what a hydrothermal vent looks like: black plumes billowing from deep-sea pillars encrusted with hobnobbing tubeworms, hairy crabs, pouting fish. But do you know what a hydrothermal vent sounds like?

To the untrained ear, a hydrothermal vent — or more precisely, one vent from the Suiyo Seamount southeast of Japan — generates a viscous, muffled burbling that recalls an ominous pool of magma or a simmering pot of soup.

To the trained ear, the Suiyo vent sounds like many things. When asked during a Zoom call to describe the Suiyo recording more scientifically, Tzu-Hao Lin, a research fellow at the Biodiversity Research Center at Academia Sinica in Taipei, Taiwan, took a long pause, shrugged, and laughed. People always ask him this, but he never has the answer they want to hear. “I usually tell people to describe it with their own language,” Dr. Lin said. “You don’t need to be an expert to say what it sounds like to you.”

Dr. Lin adores acoustics; in his official academic headshot, he wears a set of headphones. He has listened to the sea since 2008, and to the deep sea since 2018. He has deployed hydrophones, which are microphones designed for underwater use, in waters off Japan to eavesdrop on the noises that lurk thousands of feet below the surface. He published these recordings in August at a conference of the Deep-Sea Biology Society.

Dr. Lin is not interested in focusing on the song of a singular whale or the clatter of ship traffic, but rather on the habitat’s soundscape — the totality of all its sounds, human, animal and geological — to glean an area’s biodiversity. Think of it as a hydrothermal vent’s acoustical calling card.

Dr. Lin joins a growing field of acousticians who believe that sound may be the quickest, cheapest way to monitor one of the most mysterious realms of the ocean. A database of deep-sea soundscapes could provide researchers with baseline understanding of healthy remote ecosystems, and singling out the sounds of communities or even individual species can inform scientists when populations are booming.

“You need to know what the habitat sounds like when it’s healthy,” said Chong Chen, a deep-sea biologist at Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, or JAMSTEC. “When the soundscape has changed, the habitat may have changed, too.”

Light holds little power in the ocean; it is so easily absorbed and scattered by seawater that anything deeper than 656 feet is essentially shrouded in darkness. But sound reigns supreme underwater, where it travels five times faster than in air.

If this statistic seems abstract, several acousticians laid out a helpful scenario in a 2018 paper in Acoustics Today. Imagine staring down at a city on a clear day from atop a mountain, the highest point within 60 miles. You can see far into the horizon but only hear the sounds nearby, perhaps a chirping bird or a gust of wind.

In the deep sea, the rules are reversed. Standing on a ridge several thousand feet underwater, peering out to the ocean’s abyssal plain, you would see almost nothing. But if you listened through a hydrophone, you could detect sounds from hundreds of miles away: echolocating whales, chattering fish, even the occasional energy pulse from seismic surveys for oil and gas.

Scientists have long listened in on the sounds of the oceans, but only recently have they turned to the deepest, darkest parts of the sea, where sound holds promise as a portal into an unknown world. Here, specialized creatures occupy habitats that would be fatal to surface-dwellers; when Dr. Lin’s colleagues retrieved the hydrophone from Suiyo, the vent’s heat had melted part of the cables. “We got too close to the orifice,” Dr. Lin said with a sigh.

The deep sea is difficult to visit and expensive to observe; underwater robots do not come cheap. But it’s fairly easy to drop a hydrophone overboard — along with a baited camera, to see if anything bites. The hydrophone can pick up not just the noisy clicks of bickering dolphins but also the ambient hum of the deep-sea.

Dr. Lin became interested in underwater acoustics around a decade ago as a graduate student at National Taiwan University, on a project observing Indo-Pacific humpback dolphins. Although the project seemed exciting, he found the work anticlimactic, working long hours and seeing very few dolphins. But as Dr. Lin listened to the recordings, he heard a chorus of other creatures — the sounds of snapping shrimp and choruses of fish — as well as noise pollution from industrial development. “People are still really crazy about marine mammals,” he said. “They do not really care about soniferous fish or invertebrates.”

When he joined JAMSTEC in the spring of 2019 for a yearlong stint as a postdoctoral research fellow, he was surprised by the remarkable diversity of deep-sea life, and even more surprised that few people had tried to capture the sounds of deeper-living creatures and their often volatile, volcanic habitats. The work felt even more pressing as international interest in deep-sea mining continued to rise. In 2019, he proposed the use of deep-sea soundscapes as a conservation tool in a paper in Trends in Ecology &amp; Evolution.

Research cruises are expensive, and Dr. Lin did not have time to develop a dedicated cruise for deep-sea soundscapes. So he and other researchers at JAMSTEC dropped hydrophones on already scheduled cruises, collecting daylong recordings from coastal areas near Japan and the Suiyo vent, and an even deeper recording from more than 18,000 feet below waters by the isosceles-shaped island of Minami-Tori. He found that the shipping traffic drowned out the coastal soundscapes, but the Minami-Tori Shima recording picked up noise from dolphins, humans and the tectonic grumblings of the seafloor itself, as well as a potpourri of as-yet untraceable sounds.

Dr. Lin’s recordings reveal a medley of shrill beeps, distant whistles and an underwater chorus of fish that sounds almost like wind gusting through a mountain pass. But what is it all? Dr. Lin and his lab at Academia Sinica are developing a software algorithm to separate the elements of the soundscape into categories: biophony (creatures), geophony (weather, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions) and anthropophony (pesky or insidious human noises, like seismic tests, ships and mining). Then the program will isolate individual sounds, such as dolphin whistles or chattering fish, and could even discover the sounds of new species.

Although the researchers are still poring through the data — recordings wrapped up in March — some soundscapes have already provided insight into life in the deep sea. The Minami-Tori Shima recording revealed a chorus of fish that began right after sunset and ended after midnight at depths with no visible light. “It’s really amazing,” Dr. Lin said. He suspects the chorus may be timed with some fish’s daily vertical migration toward the surface at night, although he said he would need to conduct more surveys to confirm this connection.

Whereas the clicks and songs of marine mammals are well-documented, the identities of smaller deep-sea noisemakers are still shrouded in the dark.

At face value, deep-sea fish would not appear to be the most competent vocalists. “Many fish sounds require hard parts like bone or dense muscles,” said Rodney Rountree, an adjunct professor at the University of Victoria who specializes in fish acoustics.

But some fish, such as the sailfin catfish, make sounds by rubbing their body parts together like crickets. Then their air-filled swim bladders act like a drum to amplify the sound. This movement can create sounds most often described as rasps, creaks or grunts — but these terms vary. “It’s a big headache,” Dr. Rountree said. “Even in the same study, I might call one thing a groan, and when I process it the next day I may call it a grunt.”

Other fish, such as cusk-eels, have dedicated sonic muscles that push on these bladders to bang like a drum or croak like a frog. “It’s really loud, like a jackhammer,” he said, pausing and clearing his throat before demonstrating: “AH-AH-AH-AH-AH.” (If this reenactment is unclear, Dr. Rountree recorded this cusk-eel’s mating call.) But many more gelatinous deep-sea species are bereft of such bladders, as well as the musculature needed to press against them. A blobfish, after all, is more water than muscle.

Researchers have observed sonic muscles or have recorded sounds from five families of deep-sea fish, including grenadiers and sablefish, according to Marta Bolgan, a marine biologist at the University of Liege in Belgium. “It is a very new field,” she said. Dr. Bolgan recently published a paper in the journal Fish and Fisheries highlighting the importance of listening to deep-sea fish.

Some researchers are working to improve current listening technology. At the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Woods Hole, Mass., Ying-Tsong Lin is building a starfish-shaped contraption of hydrophones that can tune into certain sounds hundreds of miles away, like a telescope for sound.

Dr. Bolgan’s strategy involves attaching video cameras to recorders to capture fish vocalizing onscreen. But even this is no sure thing. A video that captures a fish and a fish-sound in the same frame still doesn’t prove that fish made that sound. Researchers have to sleuth out whether that fish could physically make that sound, either by listening to existing recordings or speculating how the fish’s sonic muscles might produce noise. “It is a combination of deduction and luck,” Dr. Bolgan said.

Even unidentified fish sounds can provide insight into biodiversity. “If we cannot identify different types of signals, maybe we can estimate the abundance and distribution of animals on the deep-sea floor,” Dr. Lin of Academia Sinica said.

In an ideal world, researchers would be able to catch deep-sea fish and listen to them on land. But benthic dwellers are difficult to haul up to the surface alive, let alone chipper. “You have to keep them happy and healthy to make sounds,” Dr. Rountree said.

Fish often make sounds alongside particular behaviors, such as spawning, which can be difficult to replicate in a lab, although some researchers have succeeded. In 2016, Eric Parmentier, Dr. Bolgan’s supervisor at the University of Liege, recorded cusk-eels growling in fiberglass tanks after sunset. Floating egg masses the following morning indicated the fish had spawned.

Fishes may represent researchers’ best bet at parsing deep-sea biodiversity, as many key deep-sea animals are not known to make sound, according to Dr. Chen. “Snails don’t vocalize,” he added as an example. There are exceptions. In 2019, researchers recorded remarkably loud snapping sounds from small, mouth-fighting marine worms that dwell in glass sponges. And a 2017 study revealed that glass sponge reefs possess a distinct soundscape entirely their own.

Dr. Lin wants to make all his soundscapes available online for anyone to use. This way, researchers such as Dr. Bolgan can sort through the recordings to single out a particular fish chorus, or any other particular sound.

“Once the data is digitized, it can be used over and over again,” Dr. Lin said, his voice catching with excitement. “Future generations will be able to see what biodiversity was like decades ago.” He uploaded all his recent recordings to SoundCloud, and invites any would-be acousticians to listen in.

Dr. Lin’s eventual goal, the Ocean Biodiversity Listening Project, is an international, open-access database of underwater recordings that can establish a baseline of healthy, deep-sea ecosystems. He knows he’s working against the clock. “Deep-sea mining is about to start anytime now,” Dr. Chen said.

In 2017, Japan successfully extracted zinc from the seabed off Okinawa. “We need research cruises to incorporate soundscapes as part of their surveying,” Dr. Chen said, adding that the process should also be included in baseline environmental studies of potential mining sites.

Many deep-sea mining interests overlap with biodiversity hot spots, such as sulfide-rich hydrothermal vents. Dr. Chen suspects that vent soundscapes may offer long-distance cues to deep-sea larvae looking to settle and start their lives on the seafloor. “Chemical cues get diluted by seawater, but sound propagates very far, so it potentially has a very important role,” Dr. Chen said. If deep-sea mining were to interrupt larval settlement, communities could take years to recover.

Dr. Lin continues to scan his soundscapes for any new patterns. The recordings are still cryptic, a hazy bramble of ambience. But at least for now, some reflect the racket of a deep sea that’s still noisy in the ways it’s supposed to be.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.39 article:
Count Tiger Woods Out? Not at Augusta National

Woods’s 2019 Masters win was one of the most dramatic revivals in sports. Despite his back pain and the tournament’s odd November start, most expect him to contend for a record-tying sixth victory.

The most mesmerizing moment of Tiger Woods’s seismic 2019 Masters victory featured the intimidating stillness of a silent stare. Standing defiantly on the 12th green with arms folded across his chest during the final round, Woods glared pitilessly at his closest rivals.

Seconds earlier, Woods had shrewdly and conservatively traversed the tiny yet treacherous creek protecting the pivotal green, safely positioning his golf ball 30 feet from the hole. Rash and unwary, his playing partners, Francisco Molinari and Tony Finau, plunked their balls into the water. With an air of condescension, Woods walked alone up to the plateau green and, from the opposite side of the creek, looked down on Molinari and Finau as they dolefully dropped new golf balls — futile first steps in an unsuccessful rally.

By the time the players left the green, Woods was tied for the lead and on his way to a stunning victory.

Want to know if Woods, even after 19 erratic months, can defend his Masters title this week? The answer is in his knowing stare during the crucible of the 2019 tournament.

“It was a pure Tiger power moment,” Trevor Immelman, the 2008 Masters champion, said last month, recalling the scene. “It was the perfect example of how he uses his vast Masters experience. Tiger went to the green and looked back just to say, ‘I may be 43 years old, but I’m still the man around here.’”

Savvier about the secrets to succeeding at the Augusta National Golf Club than any other player in this year’s field, Woods has not only won the Masters five times, he has finished in the top five seven other times in his 22 tournament appearances. Even when his game is not sharp or when he competes after a long layoff from golf — or both — Woods has usually managed to contend at Augusta National.

There is no better example than the Masters of 2010, when Woods returned from a five-month exile necessitated by the scandal of his marital infidelities. Despite stinging rebukes from fans and from the Augusta National chairman at the time, Billy Payne, Woods stayed in the hunt until the final holes, finishing tied for fourth.

“I would never count Tiger Woods out at the Masters because he loves and knows Augusta so well, and that triggers very positive vibes,” said Bernhard Langer, who has won the Masters twice and tied for eighth at the tournament in 2014, when he was 56. “It’s that kind of place, and Tiger has 25 years of memories to draw from.”

But in a sports year unlike any other in modern times, Woods has been a far less daunting presence because of his balky lower back, which has been surgically repaired four times. Playing infrequently, Woods has turned in several sparkling rounds when his swing was fluid and his movements supple. But it has been just as common to see Woods limping 24 hours later, with one hand pressed against a back warped by reshaped bone and scarred tissue, toiling fruitlessly in pain.

In July, after one such uneven performance in consecutive rounds of the Memorial Tournament, Woods explained the hour-by-hour unpredictability of his back. That morning, he felt limber when he woke up, but a few hours later he was too stiff to take a full golf swing. “It’s going to happen more times than not,” he said and smiled.

This is Woods’s new reality, which includes the understanding that if he is going to win the three more major golf championships needed to tie Jack Nicklaus’s record total of 18, or match Nicklaus’s record six Masters titles, it will probably have to happen in the next few years.

With the clock ticking this season, Woods has struggled. In the six tournaments he has entered since the PGA Tour resumed in June after a three-month layoff caused by the coronavirus pandemic, Woods has not finished higher than a tie for 37th. In the five majors he has played since his 2019 Masters victory, he has missed the cut three times, tied for 21st and tied for 37th.

Nonetheless, his much younger colleagues on the PGA Tour, as well as his contemporaries in the champions-only Augusta National locker room, uniformly consider him among the favorites this week. So do online betting sites.

“The whole world saw what Tiger did in the final round last year when he methodically chased down every name ahead of him on the leader board,” said Gary Woodland, the 2019 United States Open champion. “It was proof of his talent but also showed the depth of his invaluable experience on that golf course.”

Since the Masters is the only major championship played annually at the same course, familiarity with the layout has always been a considerable advantage. In an interview late last month, Nick Faldo, a three-time Masters champion, said he thought the experience of playing in the tournament multiple times could be worth four to eight strokes across the four rounds of the event.

“Putts that appear to break two feet actually break eight feet, and a brilliant shot that lands one yard from the hole but on the wrong side of that hole ends up four yards over the green,” said Faldo, who will be an analyst for CBS at this year’s tournament. “Everybody tries to keep the ball below the hole, but when you’re 185 yards away that’s not always going to happen. So you better learn to be comfortable putting down slopes so steep your ball might roll back into the fairway. The mental strain you’re under is constant.”

Rory McIlroy, the world’s fifth-ranked player, said Augusta National’s challenges were so subtle they could not be explained but instead had to be experienced. The 14th hole, for example, is the only one on the property without a bunker, but its green is deceptively devilish.

“The putt up the hill on the 14th green is the slowest putt on the entire course,” said McIlroy, who added that few players realize how hard they must stroke the ball until they leave it 10 feet short of the hole two or three times.

Adding to the challenge this year will be a first: a Masters in November instead of in its traditional role as an April rite. Not surprisingly, Woods is one of the few leading players who has played multiple rounds at Augusta National in November.

“It’s been cold, the ball doesn’t go very far,” he said last month of those outings.

Also, from spring to fall, the prevailing wind tends to shift. “If you get the north wind that time of year,” Woods said, “it can be awfully difficult and long, and very different than what we normally play in April.”

In recent months, it has been obvious that cold weather exacerbates the fragility of Woods’s back, and that has only added to the belief that his window of championship greatness is closing.

“There will come a time when Tiger won’t be one of the favorites,” said Immelman, who is a CBS golf analyst. “However, I don’t think that time is right now. He still has different powers than the rest of us and an amazing ability to rise to the occasion regardless of the conditions.”

Phil Mickelson, Woods’s oldest major rival in the field, has wondered in recent weeks if the wind and chill of November might favor a golfer whose strength is precise iron play rather than length off the tee. Mickelson pointed to the 2007 Masters, which was played in squally weather and won by Zach Johnson, whose forte is accuracy and consistency.

It is worth noting that Woods finished second that year, two strokes behind Johnson.



No.1 article:
Greek football players attend 'coronavirus party' – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Stormont ministers were locked in late night negotiations on Tuesday amid efforts to agree new coronavirus restrictions for Northern Ireland. But the executive meeting has been adjourned once again with no indications of an imminent breakthrough, PA reports.

There were angry exchanges at the outset of the meeting when the DUP moved to block a proposal from health minister Robin Swann to extend the region’s current circuit-break lockdown for two more weeks.

The DUP used a contentious Stormont mechanism - a cross-community vote - to effectively veto the proposal, despite support for the move by a majority of executive parties.

Alliance Party justice minister Naomi Long was particularly critical of the deployment of the mechanism, which was triggered by DUP agriculture minister Edwin Poots.

Swann and senior health officials had warned that Covid-19 cases were likely to surge again in mid-December if the fortnight extension was not approved.

The DUP has been strongly opposed to extending the full complement of restrictions beyond the original four-week period.

After Swann’s paper was voted down, ministers turned to debating alternative proposals tabled by DUP economy minister Diane Dodds, who recommended a partial reopening of the hospitality sector.

The circuit-break has forced the closure of much of the hospitality sector in Northern Ireland and halted the work of close contact services such as hairdressing.

The PA news agency understands that measures in Dodds’ alternative paper include:

A further 11 Covid-19 linked deaths were announced in Northern Ireland on Tuesday, along with 514 new confirmed cases.

On Tuesday morning, the first minister Arlene Foster expressed confidence the executive could find a consensus position. She told the Assembly there was a need to develop a “clear exit strategy” from lockdown measures.

I do not believe that we can continually go into circuit-breakers, lockdowns, call them what you will. You cannot keep turning on and off the economy. When you go back on one occasion there’ll be nothing left and people will not have jobs, they will not be able to support their families, they will fall into destitution and poverty.

Boris Johnson will face sustained pressure from within his own party not to extend England’s national lockdown next month after senior Tory backbenchers formed a group to resist any such move, PA reports.

Some 32 Conservatives rebelled against the government when the Commons approved the second lockdown for England which lasts until 2 December. The prime minister said he expects the nation to return to a tiered local system by then and promised MPs a vote for the replacement to the four-week lockdown.

Former chief whip Mark Harper and ex-Brexit minister Steve Baker will lead the “Covid recovery group” to resist any extension of the measure in the Commons vote. Harper said: 

The cure we’re prescribing runs the risk of being worse than the disease.

The group outlined three guiding principles calling on ministers to undertake a cost-benefit analysis of restrictions, to end the “monopoly” of advice from UK government scientists and to improve measures to tackle Covid-19 such as test and trace.

Baker said: 

We must find a more sustainable way of leading our lives until a vaccine is rolled out, rather than throwing our prosperity away by shutting down and destroying our economy, and overlooking the untold health consequences caused by lockdowns and restrictions.

Sir Graham Brady, the influential chair of the 1922 committee of Conservative MPs, is among those said to have joined the group, along with the likes of William Wragg and Sir Robert Syms.

Hopes that the end of the pandemic has become nearer have soared after the news that a coronavirus vaccine was found to be 90% effective in global trials. Although there is definite reason to be optimistic, experts have cautioned that the data from the trials conducted by Pfizer and BioNTech are not final, and there remain plenty of unknowns. 

Here the Guardian’s science correspondent Natalie Grover answers six key questions about the vaccine:

Here is a recap of the main developments from the last few hours:

Brazil reported another 25,012 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and 201 deaths from Covid-19, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The country has registered 5,700,044 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 162,829, according to ministry data. It is the world’s second most fatal outbreak after the United States. 

A host of professional Santas have received video-call training to prepare them for a socially-distanced Christmas.

The training comes ahead of the launch of a new app, Santa HQ, which will allow children to speak with Father Christmas without needing to visit a traditional grotto.

Student Santas met in London on Tuesday for technical training for the service, which is a collaborative project between the Ministry of Fun Santa School and the digital agency Prism.

“A lot of work has gone into this launch today, because what we’re having to do is create an alternative to the Christmas grotto,” James Lovell, the director of the Ministry of Fun Santa School, told the PA news agency.

Last year we had over 1,000 booking for Santa’s grottos all over the country, this year we’ve got about a tenth of that.

Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales helped launch the Santa HQ app and attended the Santa training session.

Lovell said aside from the one-on-one calls with St Nick, the service will also provide a 32-day “Christmas adventure” with Santa’s elves from 25 November. Each day children will be able to take part in an activity with the elves, including joke-telling, arts and crafts, and making a recipe.

“There’s some background story to that where one elf is learning how to be an elf,” added Lovell. “He’s new and he wants to maybe accompany Father Christmas on his sleigh on Christmas Eve, so we may find out at the end whether he manages it or not.”

One of the Santas told PA: 

Every year is a busy year... but you know what, we self-isolate anywhere. Father Christmas self-isolates for 11 months because we’re up in the snow near the North Pole, so it’s not made any difference to us really. And all the reindeer when they’re on the sleigh they’re at least two metres apart. But you know, this year especially all the boys and girls around the world... they deserve something very special and that is what Santa HQ is all about.

Prices for the Santa HQ service will vary between £10 and £30 depending on features.

GP services in England will be scaled back well into 2021 so family doctors can immunise millions of people against coronavirus at new seven-day-a-week clinics, NHS England has said.

Health leaders warned that surgeries will not be able to offer their full range of care for patients from next month as doctors and nurses will be redeployed to administering jabs at more than 1,200 mass vaccination centres across the country, potentially including sports halls, conference centres and open air venues.

The Guardian’s Denis Campbell has the story:

Boris Johnson said it will take a “truly global endeavour” to prevent future pandemics as he met Bill Gates to discuss how governments can prepare, PA reports.

The UK prime minister said the Microsoft co-founder “sounded the alarm” about how unprepared the world was for a global health crisis, long before coronavirus. He added that leaders must now “heed his call” to stop “something like this ever happening again”.

Johnson hosted a virtual meeting with Gates and the heads of 10 life science and pharmaceutical firms on Tuesday, to discuss how governments can work with the industry to prevent future pandemics. He praised the “herculean” joint effort that such companies were undertaking to tackle the disease at “record speed”. He said:

Defeating coronavirus and preventing future pandemics is a truly global endeavour, requiring ingenuity, tenacity and a spirit of openness to succeed.

Bill Gates sounded the alarm on the world’s lack of preparation for a major health crisis long before most of us had heard the word coronavirus - and now we must heed his call to stop something like this ever happening again.

The 10 chief executives “re-committed” to help ensure fair global access to any successful coronavirus vaccine, Downing Street said.

Gates, who is co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, said the world needed a “comprehensive strategy” to avoid future pandemics. He said:

Every head of state is thinking about two questions right now - how can we end the current pandemic? And how can we prevent the next one?

To answer those questions, the world needs a comprehensive strategy; a coherent approach to financing and manufacturing billions of doses of vaccines, tests and drugs; and a network to monitor for new threats.

We’re fortunate that prime minister Johnson has come up with a smart plan to do just that in the UK, and our foundation will continue to work with his government and others to make it a reality.

Johnson has already pledged to use the UK’s G7 presidency next year to build a new “global approach” to health security, with a five-point plan to protect humanity against another pandemic.

He committed £500m in aid funding for the Covax vaccines procurement pool to help poor countries access a coronavirus jab, and announced a plan, developed with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and The Wellcome Trust, to help stop future pandemics.

The proposals include developing a global network of “zoonotic hubs” to identify dangerous pathogens before they jump from animals to humans, as well as improving manufacturing capacity for treatments and vaccines.

The head of the US drug firm Johnson &amp; Johnson, Alex Gorsky, and Albert Bourla from the pharmaceutical company Pfizer, were among the chief executives who attended the virtual meeting.

France registered a total of 1,829,659 confirmed cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, up by 22,180 over the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. The ministry also reported 472 new deaths in hospitals from Covid-19 over the last day, adding that the numbers had increased sharply over the past week because some institutions were catching up on reporting data that had not been previously given.

The number of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 in California has risen by 32% over the past two weeks, and intensive care admissions have spiked by 30% as the pandemic surges across the United States, the state’s health and human services secretary, Dr Mark Ghaly, said on Tuesday.

Ghaly said three counties that are home to about 5.5 million people - San Diego, Sacramento and Stanislaus - must reverse their reopening plans and go back to the most restrictive tier of public health regulations aimed at slowing the spread of the virus. More counties will likely be required to roll back reopening in coming weeks, he said.

In the most restrictive tier of regulation, indoor dining in restaurants is not allowed. Gyms and religious institutions are also not allowed to hold indoor activities.

Ghaly said:

We anticipate if things stay the way they are... over half of California counties will have moved into a more restrictive tier by next week.. 

More than 15,000 mink in the United States have died of the coronavirus since August, and authorities are keeping about a dozen farms under quarantine while they investigate the cases, state agriculture officials said.

Global health officials are eying the animals as a potential risk for people after Denmark embarked on a plan to cull all of its 17 million mink. Amid growing political opposition, the Danish prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, admitted the cull she authorised last week was illegal.

The US states of Utah, Wisconsin and Michigan - where the coronavirus has killed mink - said they do not plan to cull animals and are monitoring the situation in Denmark.

“We believe that quarantining affected mink farms in addition to implementing stringent biosecurity measures will succeed in controlling SARS-CoV-2 at these locations,” the US Department of Agriculture told Reuters on Tuesday.

The USDA said it is working with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, state officials and the mink industry to test and monitor infected farms.

The United States has 359,850 mink bred to produce babies, known as kits, and produced 2.7 million pelts last year. Wisconsin is the largest mink-producing state, followed by Utah.

Sick mink in Wisconsin and Utah were exposed to people with probable or confirmed Covid-19 cases, the USDA said. In Michigan it is still unknown if the mink were infected by humans, according to the agency.

In Utah, the first US state to confirm mink infections in August, about 10,700 mink have died on nine farms, said Dean Taylor, state veterinarian. “On all nine, everything is still suggesting a one-way travel from people to the minks,” he said. Coronavirus testing has been done on mink that die and randomly on the affected farms, Taylor said. Like people, some mink are asymptomatic or mildly affected, he said.

The CDC said it was supporting states’ investigations into sick mink, including testing of animals and people.

These investigations will help us to learn more about the transmission dynamics between mink, other animals around the farms and people. Currently, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in the spread of SARS-CoV-2 to people.

In Wisconsin, about 5,000 mink have died on two farms, State Veterinarian Darlene Konkle said. One farm is composting the dead mink to dispose of the carcasses without spreading the virus, Konkle said. Authorities are working with the second farm to determine how to dispose of the mink, and dead animals are being kept in a metal container in the meantime, she said.

Michigan declined to disclose how many mink have died, citing privacy rules.

US authorities are urging farmers to wear protective gear like masks and gloves when handling mink to avoid infecting the animals.

State officials said they are working with the USDA to determine whether farmers can sell the pelts of infected mink. The pelts are used to make fur coats and other items.

“It’s our desire and certainly the owners’ desire to be able to use those pelts,” Konkle said.

The coronavirus has also infected cats, dogs, a lion and a tiger, according to the USDA. Experts say mink appear to be the most susceptible animal so far. Taylor said:

Whatever we learn about mink is going to help understand the virus across species. It’s going to give us a better response to people to stop this pandemic.

A Greek football club has slammed three players for attending a rooftop “coronavirus party” in Athens that local media say involved a DJ and 40 guests, some of whom locked themselves in the toilets to avoid being found.

Olympiakos named Portuguese defender Ruben Semedo, Serbian midfielder Lazar Randelovic and Brazilian midfielder Bruno Felipe as those who were among the 30 people at the party in the early hours of Monday.

Greece has been under a strict lockdown since Saturday to curb the spread of Covid-19 and amid rising hospitalisations. A neighbour of the hotel on Syngrou Avenue called police at 2:30am to report the illegal gathering.

Olympiakos said they have called on the players to apologise and that they will be punished “with the maximum fine.”

All three players as well as those at the party were fined 300 euros ($355) each by police for not wearing protective masks while the 24-year-old owner of the hotel was arrested and fined 3,000 euros. 

In a statement the club said:

Olympiakos unequivocally condemns the presence of three of its players at the coronavirus party that took place in the early hours of Monday morning as reported by police. Disregarding the prohibitions and regulations of our team for this season is unacceptable.

The players had just returned from a 2-0 away win at OFI in Crete, which put Olympiakos at the top of the Greek Super League.

Greek health authorities announced 1,914 new cases of Covid-19 and a record 35 deaths on Sunday. Authorities said that of the country’s 1,063 intensive care units, 734 are occupied, 259 with patients with the coronavirus.

The Norwegian government has granted an exemption from its two-week quarantine requirement for arriving visitors so representatives from the winner of the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize - the World Food Program - can attend the 10 December award ceremony in Oslo, the Associated Press reports.

“The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize is an important event of great national and international interest,” the health minister Bent Hoeie said. 

We want to make it easy for the prize winner to be physically present this year as well. It is important that the event is carried out in a good infection-control manner.

The government’s decision came at the recommendation of Norway’s Directorate of Health and National Institute of Public Health, which “consider that the risk of infection is very small” from granting the quarantine waiver, Hoeie said.

The World Food Program, which won the 2020 peace prize for efforts to combat hunger, will send a delegation that is “as small as possible, an estimated 15-20 people,” to accept the award, he said.

Hoeie said visitors also are eligible for quarantine exemptions “when they have taken one negative test in Norway. This means that the persons have full entry quarantine until they have received one negative test result. When the negative test result is available, the person in question is exempt from the entry quarantine.”

The ceremony usually is held at Oslo City Hall. Next month’s event will be a scaled-down affair held at the city’s university because of the coronavirus pandemic.

Along with enormous prestige, the prize comes with a 10-million krona ($1.1 million) cash award and a gold medal to be handed out. It is held on the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel’s death. 

The traditional banquet and concert held after the award ceremony, and the ceremonies the same week in Stockholm where the other Nobel Prizes will be awarded, have been canceled.





No.2 article:
Far-right Essex councillor censured for posting anti-asylum seeker video

Council sanctioned Julian Leppert after he made unsubstantiated claims about refugees in local hotel

An Essex councillor from the far-right organisation For Britain has been sanctioned for breaching his council’s code of conduct after being accused of inciting racial hatred in an anti-asylum seeker video he posted on YouTube.

A series of sanctions against For Britain councillor Julian Leppert were agreed at a meeting of Epping Forest district council on Tuesday.

Leppert posted a video, which can still be seen on YouTube, in July called The Epping Migrant Hotel Scandal. He appears on the video with Eddy Butler, the BNP’s former election chief.

The video claimed that the 79-room Bell Hotel in Epping, which the Home Office was using to accommodate asylum seekers, was being used by asylum seekers and illegal immigrants who had come to the UK to exploit the benefits system, that the asylum seekers posed a security risk to local people, had caused an increase in shoplifting and pickpocketing and had diverted food intended for local people at the food bank 3food4U to their hotel.

When questioned about these claims at a meeting of the council’s standards committee on Tuesday evening Leppert was unable to substantiate any of the allegations.

When asked what would be an acceptable number of asylum seekers to be housed in the area he replied: “None.”

Leppert was attacking the asylum seekers housed by the Home Office in the Bell Hotel at a time when other far-right groups were entering hotels accommodating asylum seekers and harassing them.

When asked previously by the Observer if he was advocating a whites-only enclave in the area, he replied: “Ideally, yeah.”

The council received seven complaints about the video, four from members of the public, one from a doctor who had a patient at the Bell hotel, one from a councillor and one from the Helen Bamber Foundation, a charity that provides support to asylum seekers.

The doctor said that her patient who was housed in the Bell hotel and other asylum seekers there had experienced racist abuse from local groups, which she believed was as a result of the YouTube video. According to a report to the council’s committee “she said that the video had included the spreading of lies to incite hatred.”

A report to tonight’s committee said: “Councillors are representatives of the council and the public will see their actions as being an illustration of the views of the council.”

But the report added that these views were not shared by the council.

Leppert invoked his right to freedom of opinion under the UN Declaration of Human Rights.

“Many of my political colleagues are all for human rights with regard to asylum seekers and illegal immigrants but when it comes to British people not so much,” he said.

He described the meeting where the sanctions against him were agreed as “a politically motivated kangaroo court”. He admitted to not having read the council’s code of conduct although he had signed it.

The sanctions agreed against him by his fellow councillors include a formal censure and a requirement to undergo equality and diversity training.

Zoe Dexter, welfare and housing manager at the Helen Bamber Foundation, said after the meeting: “People seeking asylum, many of whom are exceptionally vulnerable, have the right to pursue their asylum claim in the UK, and to do this free from abuse. The far-right protests and actions around asylum accommodation this summer were racist and stoked hate against asylum seekers. The councillor’s actions were unacceptable, particularly from someone in public office, and we welcome the council’s decision to find that he has broken their code of conduct. “





No.3 article:
Gunmen shoot dead female Libyan dissident in busy Benghazi street

Hanan al-Barassi was an outspoken critic of abuses in areas controlled by the Libyan National Army

Gunmen have shot dead a prominent female dissident on a busy street in the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi, in the latest killing of a critic of military strongman Khalifa Haftar.

Hanan al-Barassi, an outspoken critic of abuses in the eastern areas controlled by Haftar’s Libyan National Army (LNA), was shot dead in her car in broad daylight on 20th Street, a busy artery in Benghazi’s city centre, rights groups and security officials said.

A prominent figure in Libya, 46-year-old Barassi was known for giving voice to female victims of violence in videos that she broadcast on social media.

She also ran a local association for the defence of women’s rights.

In the footage posted to her Facebook page just before she was shot, Barassi speaks to the camera while seated in her car and criticises armed groups close to Haftar, saying she had been “threatened”.

Barassi’s killing comes nearly a year and a half after the disappearance of another prominent women’s rights activist, Siham Sergiwa, who was abducted from her home in Benghazi by armed men on 17 July and has not been heard from since.

Before her abduction, Sergiwa had criticised an offensive launched by Haftar in April last year to take the capital Tripoli from the United Nations-recognised Government of National Accord (GNA). Relatives believe the former doctor was silenced by forces loyal to the 77-year-old strongman.

The latest murder has prompted an outcry across Libya, with many on social media demanding justice.

News of Barassi’s killing “is appalling and a painful reminder of the reality on the ground especially for women”, said Elham Saudi, a Libyan lawyer who is also known for her defence of human rights.

“With no accountability, violators will continue to get away with literal murder in broad daylight.”

Amnesty International said Barassi and her daughter had received death threats. The organisation noted that her social media page had said on Monday she planned to release a video accusing Haftar’s son of corruption.

“The assassination of Hanan highlights the risk posed to the lives of women who speak up on political issues in Libya,” the organisation said in a statement.

Neither the LNA nor other authorities in eastern Libya immediately released any statement about the killing.

Libya has been wracked by conflict since the overthrow and killing of dictator Muammar Gaddafi in a Nato-backed uprising in 2011.

It has since been dominated by armed groups and divided since 2014 between the GNA and Haftar’s administration in the east.

Both represent coalitions of armed groups as well as regional and political factions. Turkey supports the GNA, while the United Arab Emirates, Russia and Egypt back the LNA. All powers have fuelled the conflict, some sending weapons, ammunition or mercenaries.

Hanan Salah of Human Rights Watch called the killing of Barassi “frightening and chilling”.

It is “reminiscent of other crimes of this kind for which nobody has ever been punished. Authorities in the east must investigate quickly and hold the criminals accountable,” she wrote on Twitter.

In June the LNA offensive on Tripoli ended in failure and a permanent ceasefire was agreed in October. Frontlines have since solidified near Sirte on Libya’s central Mediterranean coast.

Libyan representatives from all sides began direct talks in Tunisia on Monday, under the aegis of the UN, aimed at finding a political solution to the conflict and a path to elections and the formation of a unified transitional government.

On Tuesday, Fatou Bensouda, the international criminal court lead prosecutor, told the United Nations security council that her office has been following reports of the targeting of civilians that voiced opposition to militias in the east and west of Libya.

“We have received information indicating that the … offensive on Tripoli that was carried out by the [LNA] and its supporting forces, forms part of a pattern of violence that involves indiscriminate airstrikes and shelling of civilian areas; arbitrary abduction; detention and torture of civilians; extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearances; and pillaging of civilian property,” Bensouda said.





No.4 article:
Stefano Bozzini played accordion for his spouse outside the building due to Covid restrictions

An 81-year-old Italian man who serenaded his wife from beneath her hospital window said he was simply following his heart.

Stefano Bozzini, who was unable to visit his wife, Carla, in hospital due to Covid-19 restrictions, instead played songs on his accordion that have defined their love.

The romantic gesture took place on Sunday morning in the courtyard of the hospital in Castel San Giovanni, a town in the northern Emilia-Romagna region, and was captured in a widely-shared video.

“I did it for Carla – to show her how much I love her and to thank her for all she has given me,” Bozzini said. “I wasn’t able to see her in hospital and so went to the courtyard with the accordion – my heart told me to go. After she heard the music she looked out of the window, so at least I got to see her.”

The first song he played was Spanish Eyes by Engelbert Humperdinck.

“She was so in love with that song, I play it all the time at home,” he said. “I played others that everyone knows, one song after the other, I didn’t stop. A lot of the sick people in the hospital were looking out of their windows.”

Carla, 74, was discharged on Monday after spending 10 days in hospital as medics carried out tests for suspected cancer. The hospital in Castel San Giovanni doesn’t treat Covid-19 patients but visitors are banned in case they bring the virus in.

“They offered to bring her home in an ambulance. I said no, I’m coming to get her straightaway. We’re by each other’s side all the time. The illness she has is very serious and will now need treatment in a specialist hospital.”

Bozzini, a retired member of the Italian army’s Alpini mountain infantry, wore a Cappello Alpino, a distinctive green hat with a raven feather on the side that forms part of the uniform, while serenading Carla. He was nicknamed “Gianni Morandi”, after the Italian singer, by fellow troops because he never stopped playing the accordion.

“I love music, and when I play the accordion it brings fun and happiness everywhere,” he said. “What is happening in the world right now is so horrible we need music to help lift the spirits.”

The couple met when they were in their 20s and have been married for 47 years. They have three children, but lost their youngest to cancer at the age of 25.

Castel San Giovanni, where the couple have lived all their lives, is close to the border of Lombardy, the region worst hit by the coronavirus.

“We try and stay home as much as possible to not risk getting Covid,” said Bozzini. “But it is important to look with the eyes and heart, and to try and help others as much as possible.”





No.5 article:
Man who killed 10 in Toronto van attack pleads not guilty

Alek Minassian’s lawyer said he will argue he is not criminally responsible because of his state of mind at the time

A Canadian man who killed 10 people when he drove a van on to a crowded Toronto sidewalk has pleaded not guilty and his lawyer said he will argue he is not criminally responsible because of his state of mind at the time.

Alek Minassian, 28, faces 10 counts of first-degree murder and 16 counts of attempted murder over the April 2018 attack, the worst mass murder in the city’s history.

Because he has admitted to the killings, the judge-only trial will instead focus on Minassian’s state of mind at the time of the attack.

“I am entering a plea of not criminally responsible for all of the counts,” Minassian said via a Zoom call on Tuesday.

Minassian’s lawyer, Boris Bytensky, said he will argue his client was not criminally responsible due to a mental illness. 

Both the Crown and defence teams are expected to rely heavily on the testimony of medical and mental health experts.

“On a warm spring afternoon on 23 April 2018, numerous pedestrians were out along Yonge enjoying the sunshine when their worlds were shattered by the actions of Mr Minassian,” the prosecution lawyer Joe Callaghan said.

Reading a statement of facts that both sides agreed on, Callaghan said Minassian drove “straight at people”.

“The only issue at this trial is the criminal responsibility,” Callaghan said.

The prosecution showed family photographs of each of the victims’ faces as Callaghan detailed how they were struck. One of those killed was dragged for more 150 meters. Many were struck from behind.

The court heard of many serious injuries, including brain damage and amputated legs.

Minassian booked the rental on 4 April, weeks before the attack. “Minassian began planning the murders in advance,” Callaghan said.

The Toronto-based lawyer Angela Chaisson, who has participated in a number of trials centred on criminal responsibility, said it was extremely rare for Canadian judges to determine that a defendant was not criminally responsible for their actions.

“Most lay people buy into the Hollywood version, where unscrupulous people claim insanity and they get off. And it’s just not accurate,” said Chaisson. “In fact, the consequences of being found not criminally responsible can be, and often are, more severe than life in prison.”

Alongside the question of his mental state, a key element of Minassian’s trial is likely to be his association with the so-called “incel” ideology of men united by sexual frustration and a hatred of women.

After his arrest in April, Minassian told police officers that he was a virgin who had never had a girlfriend, admitted to using the van as a weapon and said he wanted to inspire more attacks.

Asked how he felt about the deaths, he replied: “I feel like I accomplished my mission.” Eight of the 10 killed were women.

The trial, long delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic, will be streamed over Zoom.

A space at the Toronto Convention Centre has been set aside for the public to follow the proceedings, which are expected to last four weeks.





No.6 article:
Fiji death in custody reignites debate over police brutality

Exclusive: Figures obtained by the Guardian show Fiji police officers charged with 400 serious offences in five years, including murder, manslaughter, rape, and abduction

Witnesses have rejected police claims a Fijian man who died in police custody jumped from a two-storey building to his death, instead alleging he was beaten by officers, reigniting debate across Fiji over the use of force by police officers and allegations of systematic brutality.

The death in violent circumstances of Mesake Sinu, a 46-year-old indigenous Fijian man from Nadi, prompted Rusiate Tudravu, the acting commissioner of Fiji’s police force, to condemn indiscipline among his own officers and order an investigation into Sinu’s death.

Tudravu told local media “a thorough investigation will … ascertain the circumstances surrounding the victim’s death and those found responsible will be charged and produced before a court of law”.

But the commissioner did not respond to multiple phone calls and detailed emails from the Guardian regarding the police’s internal investigation into Sinu’s death and wider allegations of police brutality.

Figures from Fiji’s director of public prosecution obtained exclusively by the Guardian show that 400 charges of serious violence were laid against police officers between May 2015 and April 2020.

Sixteen charges of rape were laid against police in that five-year period, two charges of murder, and nine of manslaughter.

More than 110 charges of assault were brought against officers. Other charges include perjury, abduction, conspiracy, and aiding prisoners to escape.

Fiji police did not respond to the Guardian’s requests for statistics on convictions.

A spokesman for the Fiji police force earlier alleged Sinu, a suspect in a 2015 bank robbery, died from injuries sustained after he jumped from a double-storey building following a robbery. However, a post-mortem ruled out the fall as a possible cause of death, police later admitted. Sinu died from a “traumatic head injury” caused by “blunt force trauma”.

And witness accounts flatly oppose claims made by the police.

In a video posted to facebook, Lewa Kuriako, who said she was present with Sinu on the morning of the incident, claimed there was “no truth to the allegation of robbery” and alleged that the version of events provided publicly by Fiji police was false.

“If you want to know the truth, we are many witnesses who are all available and ready to answer questions and give evidence as witnesses to the killing of Mesake Sinu.

“We saw with our very own eyes and we actually witnessed what happened.”

Kuriako alleged that at about 3.30am on the morning of 12 October at least nine police officers in civilian clothes forced their way into a house in Nasau, Nadi, where Sinu was staying.

“When the police got here the first thing they did to us was break down our door … and punched up all the males in the house, including Mesake Sinu,” she alleged.

“The officers chased Mr Sinu and he tried to escape and jumped out of the house. The fall was about two metres and not a double-storey building as police said.”

Kuriako alleged police officers then “rounded him up and assaulted him”.

“They also smashed a glass bottle on him and dragged him inside the twin cab [police vehicle].

“There was a deep cut on his forehead and blood kept oozing out.”

Kuriako’s online testimony has been viewed more than 120,000 times and widely shared across Fiji.

Allegations of human rights abuses have been previously made against Fiji’s military and police forces.

In June five police officers allegedly threw a man off a bridge and are currently on bail facing charges for causing grievous bodily harm, common assault, and interfering with a witness. They have each entered not guilty pleas.

In the same month another officer allegedly assaulted a man at his home on the outskirts of the capital. And in August police officers allegedly assaulted a man at Nausori police station.

Two days before Sinu’s death, on 10 October, a 21-year-old man was severely beaten at his home, allegedly by four non-uniformed police officers in Suva. He was arrested for breaking curfew and drinking in public.

Police have defended their actions, saying the man obstructed police and resisted arrest.

The string of recent cases has prompted the country’s human rights watchdog to launch its own investigation.

“Fiji has an effective and transparent criminal justice system,” said Ashwin Raj, director of Fiji’s human rights and anti-discrimination commission.

Raj said the commission had seen a copy of Sinu’s death certificate which stated the cause of death was “extensive intracranial haemorrhage due to severe traumatic head injury”. The external cause of injury was “blunt force trauma”.

“I have every confidence in the criminal justice system that it will operate transparently and hold those responsible for this heinous act of violence to account,” Raj said. “We have nearly concluded our investigations … and we will be giving our report to the Fiji police force.”





No.7 article:
The ‘Prussian Turk’ couple’s company BioNTech developed the breakthrough Covid vaccine with Pfizer

They are the “dream team” scientist couple who came up with a big idea that could protect humanity from a virus that has killed more than a million people and put an end to a pandemic that has upended economies across the globe.

But as the world breathed a sigh of relief at Monday’s news that the experimental vaccine developed by German biotech company BioNTech and US pharmaceutical company Pfizer has shown positive results in the all-important phase 3 trials, Uğur Şahin and Özlem Türeci displayed characteristic modesty.

BioNTech chief executive, Şahin, known for still cycling on bike to the headquarters of a company currently valued at $21.9bn (£16.6bn), said the trial results were above all a “victory for innovation, science and of a global collaborative effort”, which might hopefully help the world “regain a sense of normalcy”.

The comments hinted at the scientific rigour, unrelenting work ethic and appetite for entrepreneurship that has seen Sahin and Türeci’s company outpace more well-established competitors in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine – and made the couple the first Germans with Turkish roots to enter their country’s rich list this autumn, at number 93.

Both scientists are the children of Turkish migrants who moved to Germany in the late 1960s. Şahin, 55, was born in İskenderun on the Mediterranean coast but moved to Germany as a four-year-old, where his father worked at the Ford factory in Cologne.

Fifty-three-year-old Türeci, BioNTech’s chief medical officer, grew up in Lastrup, Lower Saxony, where her Istanbul-born father worked as a surgeon at a small Catholic hospital.

For both, cross-pollinating cultures proved dynamic childhood environments: Türeci has described herself as a “Prussian Turk” and spoken in interviews of her admiration for the nuns who looked after patients at her father’s hospital, while football-fan Şahin found inspiration in popular science books he took out from the library at his local church.

After gaining his doctor with a thesis on immunotherapy treatment for cancer cells, Şahin followed his PhD supervisor to Saarland University in the town of Homburg, where Türeci was studying medicine.

The couple married in 2002, interrupting their research only briefly to slip out of their lab coats and dash to the registry office on their wedding day. Their daughter was born four years later.

Since 2001, Şahin and Türeci have been based in Mainz, a city on the river Rhine famous for its carnival culture and as the home of Johannes Gutenberg, the inventor of the movable-type printing press.

The two scientists showed a similar enterprising zeal. At Mainz university hospital, the couple planned to set up a research lab to investigate how immune systems could be trained to attack cancerous cells. When research funds were hard to come by “we simply started our own company”, Şahin told news portal Heise.

“Their first company, founded in 2001, was called Ganymed – not after the handsome hero of Greek myth but a Turkish expression roughly meaning “earned through hard work”, as Türeci told Süddeutsche Zeitung. The company, which pioneered precision antibody therapies against cancer, was sold to Japanese pharma company Astellas for €1.4bn in 2016.

They founded their second company BioNTech in 2008 with the Austrian oncologist Christoph Huber, who still sits on the supervisory board. With BioNTech, which has currently some 1,300 employees, the couple first set to develop immunotherapy cancer treatments, using genetic material called mRNA to train the human body to produce its own antigene.

Years of experience with the mRNA method came in handy when news of the novel coronavirus reached the scientist couple at the start of the year.

Şahin says he first read about Covid-19 in the Lancet on Friday 24 January 2020: the following Monday he summoned his employees that the company would pivot to finding a coronavirus vaccine. Some of his colleagues were displeased, already focused on their skiing holidays, he told the Wall Street Journal. But Şahin persisted.

US pharmaceutical company Pfizer, which has previously collaborated with BioNTech on a flu vaccine, was quickly convinced to help with development and distribution costs. By March, when Germany entered its first lockdown, BioNTech had already developed 20 candidates for a vaccine, of which it would go on to test five for immune reactions in a research programme accompanied by 500 scientists called Lightspeed.

The breakthrough came in early November, after an interim analysis showed their vaccine candidate to be 90% effective in protecting people from transmission of the virus in global trials, better than most experts had hoped for.

Asked whether when he would take the vaccine himself, Şahin told German news website Business Insider: “As soon as the vaccine has been permitted, I will be one of the first to do it. But first we have to make sure that the vaccine arrives with those people who need it urgently: especially the elderly, people with pre-existing conditions and medical staff.”





No.8 article:
South Africa issues arrest warrant for ANC&#x27;s Ace Magashule

Party general secretary wanted over corruption allegations in Free State province

South African prosecutors issued an arrest warrant on Monday for Ace Magashule, one of the most powerful politicians in the troubled country and a key figure in the ruling African National Congress.

The move appeared to signal a new will by authorities to move against alleged corruption, and is likely to be welcomed by Cyril Ramaphosa, the president, who is under pressure for failing to tackle the problem since taking power almost three years ago.

The warrant has been issued in relation to Magashule’s alleged role in a $15m contract to find and remove asbestos from homes in disadvantaged neighbourhoods in the Free State province.

Magashule is the secretary general of the ANC and so in charge of the day-to-day running of the party that has governed South Africa since the end of the repressive, racist apartheid regime in 1994. He was premier of Free State province from 2009 to 2018, and so at the time of the alleged corruption.

On Tuesday the 61-year-old politician said he was “ready for anything” and claimed that the “enemy” had infiltrated the governing party.

“I have not done anything wrong … I am a law abiding citizen,” Magashule told journalists while campaigning in the Soweto township for upcoming by-elections.

Analysts described the arrest warrant as significant.

“He is a very powerful individual and there have been allegations of corruption swirling about him for years. It is an important moment for the rule of law, and … sends a powerful message,” said Judith February, an expert in governance and commentator.

A statement from the ANC said only that the party would be “monitoring developments”.

Though Ramaphosa is not thought to have intervened in the move to prosecute Magashule, the arrest of a major political rival will be a welcome boost for the president’s continuing efforts to impose his will on the bitterly divided ruling party.

“There are no heroes here. This should have happened a long time ago. But Ramaphosa will be happy. It plays into his anti-corruption agenda,” said Ralph Mathekga, an author and analyst.

Ramaphosa, a labour activist turned wealthy tycoon, is seen as the leader of the ANC’s moderate and reformist wing, while Magashule is the political heir of former president Jacob Zuma, who represents a more radical wing committed to a sharp redistribution of wealth in South Africa.

Zuma was forced to resign in 2017 amid allegations of systematic corruption and mismanagement.

“Within the ANC the tensions remain and Ramaphosa remains leader of the party, so any celebration will be very quiet. He is well aware that the consequences of any arrest of Magashule for the party are very unpredictable,” said Mathekga.

Derek Hanekom, a former ANC minister and leading Ramaphosa loyalist, said prosecutors were “doing exactly what the constitution demands [and] applying the law without fear or favour.”

“No one is above the law. Innocence can be established in court. Or guilt. But a fair hearing is guaranteed,” Hanekom said.

Public outrage has been building for years but was fuelled in recent months by a series of scandals involving massive sums corruptly earned on government contracts for emergency supplies to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and grants to support the most needy.

There have also been a series of revelations about systematic corruption in major government utilities and ministries at the televised hearings of a judicial inquiry.

In June, Ramaphosa ordered that evidence presented at the inquiry could be used by prosecutors, potentially opening up hundreds of cases for further action.

“There is a lot of evidence in the public domain, and that makes the arrest feel perfectly legitimate. The ANC is rotten but hopefully this is the start of a clean up. But it will take a very long time,” said February.

In August, Ramaphosa said ANC officials must take leave from their positions if charged with corruption, and resign if convicted. However the policy has not so far been applied by the party.

Magashule is scheduled to appear before magistrates in Bloemfontein, the capital of Free State province, on Friday.

Although the country has been widely praised for its response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the crisis has dealt a heavy blow to South Africa’s flagging economy, exacerbating soaring unemployment, undermining public finances and derailing infrastructure projects.





No.9 article:
Conspiracies about pandemic on social media must be countered effectively, say experts

Anti-vaxxers have seized on the promising results of a new coronavirus vaccine, attempting to discredit the Pfizer/BioNTech development on social media within hours of it being announced.

After the news broke that interim analysis suggested the vaccine had 90% effectiveness, “Bill Gates” began trending on Twitter The Microsoft founder has been one of the most popular targets for conspiracy theorists because of his work on vaccines.

While some were poking fun at the conspiracy theories, others subscribed to views expressed by the disgraced US researcher Dr Judy Mikovits in the viral Plandemic video, in which she blames the coronavirus outbreak on a conspiracy led by big pharma, Gates and the World Health Organization.

The conspiracy was repeated by a caller to BBC Radio 2’s Jeremy Vine show on Tuesday, who claimed “Bill Gates is behind this” and accused him of seeking material gain.

Just over an hour after Boris Johnson finished a press conference in which he sought to manage expectations following the interim results for the vaccine – which must gain regulatory approval before it is rolled out – Louise Creffield from Save Our Rights UK, which has campaigned against lockdown, made a Facebook live response.

In the video, she said: “There’s been no safety data yet, it hasn’t been peer-reviewed, there is a lot of indemnity to it and the MHRA [Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency], who are going to be the ones that approve it or not, we have found out, well, one, they’re a government body so they are paid for by the government, and two they’ve received nearly £1m in funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. So the likelihood that they are a robustly independent body like Boris Johnson said is slim to none.”

Johnson was explicit in saying there was no safety data for the vaccine and it has not been peer-reviewed.

Creffield also voiced scepticism about the speed at which the vaccine has been developed. She suggested the “presence of the army is coercive” – a reference to Johnson being flanked at the press conference by Brigadier Joe Fossey, who was there to talk about military support for mass testing in Liverpool.

Heidi Larson, director of the London-based Vaccine Confidence Project, said: “There’s a lot of language out there about speed but we haven’t really talked about why things are faster and it’s not because we’re shortcutting old processes.

“These new Covid vaccines are on brand new platforms. There’s never been an mRNA vaccine [which uses the genetic code rather than any part of the virus itself] before for humans. So, this Pfizer vaccine, for instance, would be absolutely brand new, made in a new way.”

While social media companies have removed some of the most extreme content – in relation to the Plandemic video for instance – Larson said it was difficult for them to police content that was more ambiguous or posted by organisations with innocuous-sounding names, or to prevent it being moved to another platform.

“I think the biggest problem with all these misinformation efforts is that we’re not there with alternatives and we’re not listening,” she said.

“Anti/sceptical vaccine individuals and groups are actively seeking out people who are questioning and hesitant, and they are right there, waiting to say: ‘You’re right, you have a good reason to be concerned, there is a problem.’ We’re just saying ‘Don’t worry’ and not really saying: ‘Tell me about your concern.’”

Prof Melinda Mills, from the University of Oxford and lead author of Covid-19 vaccine deployment, a report published on Tuesday by the British Academy and the Royal Society for the Set-C (Science in Emergencies Tasking: Covid-19) group, echoed Larson’s views.

“Vaccines are one of the most amazing discoveries … they’ve saved millions of lives and we often forget that because we’re not surrounded by measles and polio and smallpox. But I do think so much focus on the medical science and so much focus on the vaccines has left us with a real blind spot into how people see them.”

Creffield said the Pfizer vaccine being based on new technology increased the need for scrutiny. “I’m not about feeding conspiracy theories – I’m just about making sure that we have the full facts of the matter, including about where these things are coming from,” she told the Guardian.

“If there’s questions on any of those answers … that doesn’t mean necessarily it’s untrustworthy and that you shouldn’t take part in whatever it is. It just means you need to satisfy that … nothing untoward is going on.”





No.10 article:
The UK usually has a high take-up for vaccines, experts say, but there are fears over misinformation and scepticism

The spread of scepticism and misinformation about coronavirus and the development of a vaccine for it has raised questions about whether it will pose a threat to the goal of achieving widespread immunity.

A report published on Tuesday by the British Academy and the Royal Society for the SET-C (Science in Emergencies Tasking: Covid-19) group said an 80% take up of a jab could be necessary in order for enough people to become immune to the virus and stop its spread. However, the actual threshold will depend on the efficacy of the vaccine, and the 90% achieved by the Pfizer/BioNTech candidate in trials was higher than many dared hope for.

The report was the latest of several to cast doubt on the ability to reach such a threshold, finding that about 36% of people in the UK said they were either uncertain (27%) or very unlikely (9%) to be vaccinated against the virus. However, separate research, published in Vaccine on Tuesday, found that 90% of parents and guardians in England would likely accept a vaccine for themselves and 89% for their children.

Heidi Larson, director of the London-based Vaccine Confidence Project, said she had been involved in preprint research that found the willingness of people in the UK to have the vaccine fell by 6.4% after they were exposed to frequently circulated anti-vaccine posts, results she said were “striking”. She added: “It’s more likely that people say ‘sure I’ll do it’, but they might not, than people who say they won’t [accept a jab].”

By contrast, Prof Stephan Lewandowsky, from the University of Bristol, who released The Conspiracy Theory Handbook earlier this year to challenge Covid misinformation, said that while it was difficult to make predictions at such an early stage, mounting numbers of people dying or falling seriously ill could make the difference.

“My best guess is that when the vaccine is available people will be clamouring and lining up to get it, because they know this is the way out of this situation,” he said. He added that the UK traditionally had a high take-up for vaccines, with the exception of the flu vaccine, which was for a number of reasons including its low efficacy and the fact that the virus was not seen as life-threatening by many people.

More prosaic concerns were also raised by the experts the Guardian spoke to, including ease of access to the vaccine. A study of H1N1 in the UK found that one of the strongest predictors of intentions not to vaccinate was given as: “I cannot be bothered.”





No.11 article:
Peru&#x27;s new president accused of coup after ousting of predecessor

Hundreds protested the swearing in of Manuel Merino, a key figure in orchestrating Martín Vizcarra’s impeachment

The head of Peru’s Congress has been sworn as president after his predecessor was controversially ousted in a congressional vote late on Monday, prompting accusations of a coup.

The removal of the popular president Martín Vizcarra comes as Peru is reeling from one of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreaks, which has left its economy in recession and caused mass unemployment.

After a night of furious protests and clashes with police, hundreds of demonstrators gathered again on Tuesday morning in downtown Lima to protest against the swearing-in of Manuel Merino, widely viewed as a key figure in orchestrating Vizcarra’s impeachment. A previous attempt in September failed to get enough votes. 

Riot police with shields and wielding batons beat back demonstrators marching on the Congress building who waved Peruvian flags and placards reading “Merino is not my president”. In total 105 out of Peru’s 130 lawmakers voted to remove Vizcarra on Monday. Vizcarra has previously said that no fewer than 68 of the members of congress seeking his impeachment were themselves subject to ongoing legal processes.

Many public figures and legal experts have said described Vizcarra’s ousting – on the grounds of “permanent moral incapacity” – as illegitimate. George Forsyth, the leading presidential candidate, tweeted it was a “coup in disguise”. Leftwing presidential candidate Veronika Mendoza called for Peruvians to take to the streets to defend democracy.

Analysts concurred that the removal was orchestrated by opposition leaders who bitterly opposed the president’s anti-graft reforms and his overhaul of higher education which affected their business interests.

“The removal of President Martín Vizcarra is a coup d’etat,” said Pedro Cateriano, a former prime minister and constitutional lawyer.

“Without any doubt, the Congress has violated the constitutional order,” he said, adding: “The constitution does not allow a sitting president to be accused or politically penalized.”

“A Peruvian president can be investigated and accused when he finishes his mandate, just as it happened with [former presidents] [Alejandro] Toledo, [Alan] García, [Ollanta] Humala and PPK [Pedro Pablo Kuczynski].”

Vizcarra, who left the presidential palace on Monday night, was applauded by neighbours as he arrived at his home in a middle-class district of Lima.

The leader, who had long campaigned against corruption at the highest levels of government, said he was leaving office with a “clear conscience”.

Flanked by his ministers, Vizcarra said he hoped to find out what were the “real motives” behind his impeachment.

“Were they decisions made in favour of … Peru and Peruvians or were they decisions made only for personal and group interests?” he asked.

Merino takes office under a cloud of illegitimacy and a dearth of public support while most polls show Vizcarra still has more than 50% approval.





No.12 article:
Readers respond to news that an interim analysis has shown Pfizer/BioNTech’s vaccine candidate was 90% effective in protecting people from transmission of the virus in global trials

The media have been awash with stories about the apparent success of the Pfizer Covid vaccine following the publication of preliminary trial outcomes (Hopes rise for end of pandemic as Pfizer says vaccine is 90% effective, 10 November). I am not surprised that the public has latched on to these, as hope and positivity have been in short supply this past year. I have even had patients contacting me about when the vaccine will be available, stating that it will allow “normal” life to resume.

While the public can be forgiven for overoptimism, it is important that the medical profession, the media and the government keep expectations grounded and do not encourage the notion that we now have a panacea that will take us out of the pandemic.

While there is evidence that this vaccine seems effective in preventing Covid-19 developing in those vaccinated, we do not know how long this immunity lasts for. It is also not known whether those who had the vaccine were less contagious and thus less likely to transmit the virus to others. There are also potential logistic issues with the delivery and storage of the vaccine, which needs to be kept at a minimum of -70C. Hospitals and general practices in the UK generally do not have facilities for these ultra-low temperatures.

Although the government claims to have secured enough doses to vaccinate one-third of the UK, the realities of the challenges of vaccine production mean sufficient doses won’t be available until well into 2021. The health secretary’s comments about the possibility of a vaccine rollout before the end of the year are unhelpful. 

No one should feel guilty for being optimistic about a breakthrough in the fight against coronavirus, but this should not detract from the message of social distancing and effective testing and tracing. Dr Milan Dagli GP, Harrow, London

• As a 77-year-old, I welcome the breakthrough on a Covid-19 vaccine and await with interest details of the prioritisation of recipients. In 1965, as a 22-year-old diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) when pregnant with my first child, I remember being immensely relieved that this potentially fatal disease was treatable. How, then, is TB – for which there is a long-established proven vaccine and effective drugs – still the biggest infectious disease killer worldwide? Last year it made 10 million people ill and killed 1.4 million.

Whether or not we get a Covid vaccine for countries that can afford it, it will be the same populations living in poverty, war zones etc that will be the ones learning to live (and die) with this latest pandemic. The euphoria that greeted Monday’s announcement by Pfizer was more than matched by excitement at the “shot in the arm” for the stock markets. Priorities indeed! Karen Barratt Winchester

• Amid the general jubilation over the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine breakthrough, might one now appeal for these companies to work to make adequate supplies of the vaccine available at an affordable cost to those countries infinitely less privileged than our own? This is a real chance for pharma to show its commitment to justice and peace, to act in solidarity with a third world we have created. David Cragg-James Stonegrave, North Yorkshire

• We’re told that a vaccine, imported at -80C from Belgium, will be available by the new year. How warm will it get, waiting in the queue with 7,000 other trucks? John Burnell London

• Join the conversation – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com

• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit theguardian.com/letters





No.13 article:
Crowds claim agreement with Azerbaijan to withdraw is a betrayal after fierce fighting over disputed enclave 

Russian peacekeepers have deployed to Nagorno-Karabakh after Moscow brokered a peace deal that sparked celebrations in Azerbaijan and protests in Armenia, where demonstrators briefly occupied government buildings.

The truce, announced late on Monday night, calls for the deployment of nearly 2,000 Russian peacekeepers to the disputed enclave, where Azerbaijan will receive significant territorial concessions from an Armenian-backed local government.

The ceasefire may end a six-week war in which Azerbaijan launched its largest offensive in a generation to retake Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding regions under Armenian control. Since fighting began in late September, thousands have been killed and more than 100,000 displaced in the worst fighting since the early 1990s.

The agreement confirmed the influence of Russia and Turkey in the region, while sidelining western powers. Russia on Tuesday denied that Turkish peacekeepers would be allowed to deploy to Nagorno-Karabakh despite claims that they would by Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev.

“The deal ends six weeks of heavy fighting, but is not a comprehensive peace treaty,” said Olga Oliker of the International Crisis Group in a statement, adding that many details of the ceasefire “remain vague”.

Michael Carpenter, an adviser to the US president-elect, Joe Biden, described the deal as a geopolitical victory for Vladimir Putin.

News of the deal set off a protests in the Armenian capital. Hundreds of people took to the streets and stormed government buildings soon after Armenia’s prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan, announced the “painful” deal early on Tuesday.

Windows were smashed and broken glass littered the lobby of Pashinyan’s official residence. Protesters ripped his nameplate off his office door as others chanted: “Nikol has betrayed us.”

Police officers looked on as demonstrators – including some army veterans wearing military fatigues – filled the ornate, wood-panelled offices, shouting and delivering furious speeches.

Early on Sunday 27 September, Armenia announced it was declaring martial law, mobilising its army and ordering civilians to shelter. It claimed its neighbour Azerbaijan had launched a military operation inside a breakaway region called Nagorno-Karabakh.&nbsp;Azerbaijan&nbsp;said it attacked only in response to Armenian shelling.

Nagorno-Karabakh is recognised internationally as Azerbaijan’s territory but has a mostly Armenian population who have resisted Azerbaijani rule for more than a century. In 1991 the region of around 150,000 people declared independence and since then it has ruled itself – with Armenian support – as the unrecognised Republic of Artsakh.

Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous, landlocked region inside the borders of Azerbaijan, has been a source of dispute since before the creation of the Soviet Union. Tensions were suppressed when both Armenia and Azerbaijan were Soviet states, but they re-emerged as the cold war ended and Communist party control of the bloc dissolved.

A war between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces ended in a ceasefire in 1994, with Armenia in full control of Nagorno-Karabakh and other surrounding enclaves of Azerbaijan’s territory. Azerbaijan is majority Muslim and Armenia is majority Christian, and some elements on both sides seek to cast the conflict in religious terms.

Michael Safi

Crowds also forced their way into the Armenian parliament as brawls broke out on the podium and objects were thrown. The parliament’s speaker, Ararat Mirzoyan, was caught up in the violence and beaten unconscious by an angry mob.

Pashinyan and senior figures in the Nagorno-Karabakh administration said they were forced to sue for peace. Azerbaijani forces had captured the enclave’s strategically positioned town of Shusha and appeared to be within striking distance of the region’s largest city, Stepanakert.

Fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh broke out on 27 September. The region has been under the control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since 1994.

Azerbaijan said it had retaken much of the land in and around Nagorno-Karabakh that it lost in a 1991-94 war over the territory that killed an estimated 30,000 people and forced many more from their homes. Armenia has denied the extent of Azerbaijan’s territorial gains.

Arayik Harutyunyan, the leader of the Nagorno-Karabakh government, said on Tuesday that he had agreed to the peace terms in consultation with Pashinyan.

“If the fighting had continued, we would have lost the whole of Artsakh within a few days, and we would have had more victims,” he said, referring to Nagorno-Karabakh, in a video posted online.

Armenian opposition parties have called for the government to revoke the agreement. And the country’s president, Armen Sarkissian, distanced himself from the deal, saying he had learned about the negotiations from the media and calling for “political consultations” to find a path out of the crisis.

The agreement calls for Armenian forces to turn over control of some areas it held outside the borders of Nagorno-Karabakh, including the eastern district of Agdam. That area carries strong symbolic weight for Azerbaijan because its main city, also called Agdam, was thoroughly pillaged, and the only building remaining intact is the city’s mosque.

Armenians will also turn over the Lachin region, which holds the main road leading from Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia. The agreement calls for the road, the so-called Lachin corridor, to remain open and be protected by 1,960 Russian peacekeepers. Stepanakert will remain under control of the Armenian-backed government.

The deal announced overnight on Tuesday was “absolutely momentous” in the more than a century-long modern history of the dispute, said Laurence Broers, the Caucasus programme director at Conciliation Resources, a peace-building group.

Apart from regaining territory it lost in a 1990s war with Armenia, Azerbaijan also appeared to have taken off the table questions of a referendum to decide the future of Nagorno-Karabakh that had been a feature of peace talks over the past two decades.

News footage on Tuesday showed peacekeepers from Russia’s 15th Motorised Rifle Brigade boarding military planes from Russia and later departing the Armenian city of Goris in military transports headed toward Nagorno-Karabakh.

The deal stipulated they would be deployed to the Lachin corridor for five years, establishing Russia’s role as peacemaker in the region for the foreseeable future.

“I personally made a very hard decision for myself and all of us,” Pashinyan said in a statement posted online, describing the ceasefire terms as “unbelievably painful for me and our people”. In a video address, Aliyev taunted Pashinyan, saying he had signed the agreement because of his “iron fist.”

The agreement also calls for transport links to be established through Armenia linking Azerbaijan and its western exclave of Nakhchivan, which is surrounded by Armenia, Iran and Turkey.

The deal leaves a cloud of uncertainty over parts of Nagorno-Karabakh that will continue to be administered by local ethnic Armenian authorities including the enclave’s main city Stepanakert, whose main road to Armenia will be in Azerbaijani control and overseen by Russian peacekeepers.

“It could end up being a strange, highly securitised area,” said Broers. “Maybe the calculation is that it’s going to be such an awful place to live that most of the Armenian population – most of whom have already left – won’t come back.”

Azerbaijan’s president confirmed the news in a televised online meeting with Vladimir Putin, president of Russia, which has a defence pact with Armenia and a military base there. Turkey has been supporting its ally Azerbaijan.

“The signed trilateral statement will become a [crucial] point in the settlement of the conflict,” Aliyev said.

Aliyev also claimed that Turkish peacekeepers would be deployed as part of the agreement, although no details have been made public.

Putin said in a statement on Tuesday that he hoped the deal “will set up necessary conditions for long-lasting and full-scale settlement of the crisis over Nagorno-Karabakh”.

Pashinyan came to power in 2018 in a bloodless democratic revolution and there are already fears the loss of territory may provide an opportunity for authoritarian forces to reclaim power.

Reuters and Associated Press contributed to this report.





No.14 article:
Spanish statue bodge-up is a new rival to Borja&#x27;s Monkey Christ

Trump-like visage grafted on to a carving in Palencia recalls earlier inept restoration

In the footsteps of the unintentionally iconic Monkey Christ, the Tintin St George, the near-fluorescent Virgin and Child– not to mention the less than sinlessly executed Immaculate Conception – comes … well, it’s hard to say.

The latest Spanish restoration effort to provoke anguished headlines and much social media snarking is, or rather, was, a carved figure adorning an ornate, early 20th-century building in the north-western city of Palencia.

What was once the smiling face of a woman next to some livestock has been replaced with a crude countenance that bears a passing resemblance to the incumbent US president, Donald Trump. Or one of the Sand People from Star Wars. Or something from a cheese-induced nightmare. Or, to be honest, pretty much anything you wish to project on to it.

The bodged restoration came to light after an artist placed pictures of the offending visage on Facebook on Saturday.

“The pictures are a bit blurry, but you can see the prank perfectly well,” said Antonio Guzmán Capel. “It looks like the head of a cartoon character.”

Palencia, he added ruefully, now had an attraction to rival the Monkey Christ that propelled the town of Borja to global fame eight years ago after a devout parishioner took it upon herself to restore Elías García Martínez’s Ecce Homo before it flaked and faded into oblivion.

“I’m sure whoever did it got paid for it,” said Guzmán. “But the bigger crime was committed by the person who commissioned it and then tried to carry on as though nothing was wrong.”

Palencia’s reaction may be one of shock and anger for now, but the authorities in Borja managed to find a way to turn the great Monkey Christ fiasco of 2012 to their advantage.

That year, almost 50,000 people visited the small church where the Ecce Homo is displayed behind a protective screen. Thousands still visit the church every year and a small museum has sprung up where people can buy Ecce Homo key rings, T-shirts, teddy bears and mugs. As well as employing two caretakers, the church-museum also yields revenue that is used to help fund places at Borja’s care home for the elderly.

But for restoration experts in Spain, the latest bodged job is another example of the need for proper training, protection and investment.

“THIS #IsNotARestoration,” Spain’s Professional Association of Restorers and Conservators said in a tweet, adding, perhaps a little unnecessarily: “It’s NOT a professional intervention.”





No.15 article:
Saeb Erekat obituary

In his last role he served from 2015 as secretary general of the Palestine Liberation Organisation and worked closely with both Yasser Arafat and his successor Mahmoud Abbas. In the wake of the first of the Oslo accords in 1993 Erekat became a senior official of the semi-autonomous Palestinian Authority (PA) in the occupied West Bank town of Ramallah.

Like everything associated with this bitter and divisive issue, his final days aroused political controversy. Reacting to Benjamin Netanyahu’s plans to unilaterally annex parts of the West Bank, the PA suspended its security and civil cooperation with Israel, so Erekat was accused by critics – on both sides – of hypocrisy when he was admitted to the Israeli Hadassah hospital in Jerusalem after falling ill at his home in Jericho.

Erekat first rose to prominence during the Madrid peace conference in 1991, when the PLO was still excluded from negotiations by the US and Israel because it was viewed as a terrorist organisation. He was part of what was termed the Jordanian-Palestinian delegation and theatrically donned a keffiyeh headdress to draw attention to Arafat’s enforced absence. James Baker, the US secretary of state at the time, judged him a “blowhard”.

Among Israelis and some of his Palestinian colleagues he earned the title “Mr CNN” because of the many times he appeared on the first global cable TV network. After Madrid he went on to take part in inconclusive talks with Israel but was not involved in the secret negotiations in Norway that led to the Oslo deal.

Erekat was widely seen as a moderate and realist. In 2008 he explained his own approach, based on the pre-1967 borders, a Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital, alongside Israel: “That is my ... preferred option,” he said. “Number two: one state. This is not my option, but if they insist, then in my town, Jericho, I would want to be a citizen with equal rights. I do not intend to disappear. I intend to stay. I am here and I can tell them that Christian and Muslim Palestinians will not convert to Judaism and become Israelis and neither will Jews convert to Christianity and Islam. Option number three is what they are doing now: the [West Bank separation] wall, settlements. This is the classic recipe for extremism, war, violence and counter-violence.”

He was born in East Jerusalem to a Muslim family from the suburb of Abu Dis when it was under Jordanian rule. His father, Muhammad, was a businessman and resident of the US who founded a bus company on his return to Palestine. A close relative, Kamal, was a Palestinian nationalist during the struggle against the British Mandate and Zionism. In June 1967, aged 12, Erekat recalled his mother, Bahia, hanging white sheets out of the windows of their Jericho home before Israeli forces arrived. He was the sixth of seven children.

He gained bachelor’s and master’s degrees in international relations (1977 and 1979) at San Francisco State University, where he acquired a green card and the fluent American English that was the key to his success. An acquaintance described him as a “Palestinian Abba Eban,” the grandiloquent Israeli foreign minister. On his return home he taught political science at An-Najah University in Nablus (1979-91), along the way taking a PhD in peace studies (1983) at Bradford University in Britain.

He later said that that was when he became convinced that there was no military solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and it would end only through negotiations.

He embodied the rise of Arafat’s Fatah movement and its growing influence over Arabic media in East Jerusalem, writing editorials for the previously pro-Jordanian Al-Quds newspaper. In 1981 he married his wife, Niemeh, another member of the extended Erekat clan. During the first intifada in 1987 he was placed under house arrest and banned by Israel from travelling abroad. He enjoyed little popular support but excelled at cultivating links with Israeli journalists covering the occupied territories.

Erekat resigned as a negotiator when the Oslo accords were made public in 1993 but became the only leading West Banker to join Arafat’s inner circle after the establishment of the PA. He served as both a minister and an MP for Jericho, and took part in the 2000 peace talks at Camp David and those in 2001 at the Egytian resort of Taba, on the Gulf of Aqaba.

In 2011 he suffered embarrassment and offered to resign when leaked documents about Palestinian concessions in secret talks with Israel were published by Al-Jazeera TV and the Guardian. He said he bore personal responsibility for classified papers being “stolen from my office’’ so that they could be “tampered with’’ – in what he described as “the biggest breach in Palestinian national security,” but defended himself against “headlines and spin”.

The “Palestine Papers” also showed that his sardonic sense of humour became more self-deprecating when he was under pressure: “If someone sneezes in Tel Aviv, I get the flu in Jericho,” he was quoted as saying. Erekat told American and Israeli officials that he felt his twin daughters were ashamed of him and his wife saw him as weak because of the Palestinians’ failure to make tangible progress.

As a senior PA official, he was a privileged member of the Palestinian elite, even during the violent days of the second intifada. But reality often proved challenging: in June 2020 his nephew, Ahmed, was shot dead by Israeli police when he drove towards a checkpoint near Bethlehem, leading to accusations that he had intended to carry out a car-ramming attack. However, the victim’s family insisted it was an accident.

In recent months Erekat was angry, along with many other Palestinians, when the UAE and Bahrain agreed to sign the Abraham accords, brokered by Donald Trump, and “normalise” their relations with Israel. He described the move as “a stab in the back”.

There was concern after Erekat was tested positive for Covid-19 as he was vulnerable due to a weakened immune system because he had a heart attack in 2012 and underwent a lung transplant in the US in 2017.

He is survived by Niemeh and their daughters, Salam and Dalal, and sons, Ali and Muhammad.

• Saeb Muhammad Salih Erekat, politician, born 28 April 1955; died 10 November 2020





No.16 article:
Child sexual abuse in Catholic church ‘swept under the carpet’, inquiry finds

Leader of church in England and Wales refusing to resign despite damning IICSA report

Pope Francis asked Cardinal Vincent Nichols, the leader of the Catholic church in England and Wales, to stay in his post, despite a damning report that criticised his leadership and concluded that the church repeatedly prioritised its reputation over the welfare of child sex abuse victims.

In its final review of the church, the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse (IICSA) said the Vatican’s failure to cooperate with the investigation “passes understanding”.

The 162-page report said “the church’s neglect of the physical, emotional and spiritual wellbeing of children and young people in favour of protecting its reputation was in conflict with its mission of love and care for the innocent and vulnerable.”

Of Nichols, it stated: “There was no acknowledgment of any personal responsibility to lead or influence change. Nor did he demonstrate compassion towards victims in the recent cases which we examined.”

Calls for Nichols’s resignation grew in the wake of the publication of the report on Tuesday. An anonymous survivor who gave evidence told the Guardian: “Cardinal Nichols is the moral leader of the Catholic church in England and Wales, he has lost all moral authority and must go … This report once again demonstrates that the Catholic church is not a safe place for children.”

Members of the survivors group White Flowers Alba called upon Cardinal Nichols and the present papal nuncio, Archbishop Adams, to “resign immediately”.

Another victim, identified by the inquiry only as A711, said: “The church needs a seismic shift in culture, especially at the top. If there is any hope at all of real change it will require a relinquishing of power, and a will to treat survivors as human beings.”

Between 1970 and 2015, the church in England and Wales received more than 900 complaints involving more than 3,000 instances of child sexual abuse, made against more than 900 individuals, including priests, monks and volunteers. 

The sexual abuse of children involved instances of “masturbation, oral sex, vaginal rape and anal rape”. On occasions, the inquiry says, it was accompanied by “sadistic beatings driven by sexual gratification” as well as “deeply manipulative behaviour by those in positions of trust”.

One child estimated that between the ages of 11 and 15 he had been abused hundreds of times by a priest. “After each incident he was required to make confession, and the priest concerned made it plain that his sister’s place at a local convent school depended on his compliance,” the report says.

When complaints were made, the church invariably failed to support victims and survivors but took action to protect alleged perpetrators by moving them to a different parish. “Child sexual abuse,” the report says, “was swept under the carpet.”

The inquiry asked the Vatican’s ambassador to the UK, the papal nuncio, to participate. “Very limited information was forthcoming,” the report says. “After several months of correspondence, the Holy See belatedly confirmed it would not provide a witness statement.

“Their lack of cooperation passes understanding.”

Prof Alexis Jay, the chair of the inquiry, said: “For decades, the Catholic church’s failure to tackle child sexual abuse consigned many more children to the same fate. It is clear that the church’s reputation was valued above the welfare of victims, with allegations ignored and perpetrators protected. Even today, the responses of the Holy See appear at odds with the pope’s promise to take action on this hugely important problem.”

Richard Scorer, a solicitor at the law firm Slater and Gordon, which represented 32 survivors, said: “Cardinal Nichols needs to resign right away – in any other walk of life he would be gone immediately. This is a church that cannot be trusted to protect children. The only way forward now is a mandatory reporting law, so that abuse cannot be covered up, and independent external oversight of church safeguarding. ”

One survivor represented by Slater and Gordon who gave evidence before the inquiry said: “Vincent Nichols will retire with a full pension – meanwhile, the victims that he denied justice to have to live on, still suffering.

“The fact is Nichols is a serial protector of paedophiles and he is the person that you should least expect it from. The head of a church should have the greatest morals of all but instead they were sending paedophiles to other areas of the country – and America – in an attempt to cover the abuse up.”

David Enright, a solicitor at Howe &amp; Co, which represented 20 of the victims, said: “The church has had many, many chances to reform and root out child abuse. It has failed. It is with heavy hearts that my clients, many of them devout Catholics, conclude that the only safe course of action is to take safeguarding of children out of the hands of the Catholic church and into the hands of accountable lay professionals.”

Responding to calls for Nichols’ departure, a church spokesperson said the cardinal would not be resigning following the inquiry’s criticisms because he was “determined to put it right”.

In accordance with Vatican rules, Nichols wrote to the Holy See about four weeks ago in the run-up to his 75th birthday, which was on Sunday, to offer his resignation. Pope Francis had asked him to continue as a cardinal, the spokesperson said.

A statement issued by Nichols and the archbishop of Liverpool, Malcolm McMahon, said the Catholic church welcomed the report, which would “inform” improvements in “safeguarding in all aspects of the church’s life”.

It added: “We apologise to all victims and survivors who have not been properly listened to, or properly supported by us.”





No.17 article:
Canary Islands appeal for help as 2,200 migrants arrive over weekend

People housed in makeshift dock-side camps after braving dangerous Atlantic route from Africa 

The president of the Canary Islands has appealed for urgent help from the Spanish government and the EU after around 2,200 migrants arrived on the archipelago over the weekend, putting further strain on its already massively overstretched reception resources.

Ángel Víctor Torres said the Canaries’ existing infrastructure could not cope with the number of people arriving, as the dangerous Atlantic route from Africa to Europe attracted more refugees and migrants.

“It’s not hard to sum up,” Torres said this week. “The flow of arrivals still greatly exceeds the reception capacity. They’re absorbed, they’re distributed and they’re relocated, but the flow of arrivals is still much higher than the reception response.”

The regional president pointed out that 2,188 people had reached the islands over the weekend and that they were being housed in makeshift camps on the docks at Arguineguín on Gran Canaria.

Torres said the Canaries could not be used as “prison islands” where people were held indefinitely, when there was far more reception space available in mainland Spain.

According to the International Organisation for Migration, more than 11,000 people have arrived in the Canaries by sea so far this year, half of them in October alone, while 414 are feared to have died in the attempt. Last year, 2,557 migrants arrived in the archipelago, up from 1,307 in 2018. This year’s figures, however, are well down on 2006, when 32,000 people arrived in the Canaries by sea.

Spain’s interior minister, Fernando Grande-Marlaska, and the EU’s commissioner for home affairs, Ylva Johansson, visited the islands last week. At a press conference on Friday, Johansson paid tribute to the “tremendous efforts” of the central and regional governments in managing the situation in such difficult times.

But Torres asked for help that went beyond words, saying: “We’re not in a planning phase, we’re in a reaction phase.” He said the Covid-19 pandemic was making things ever harder, called for urgent action to dismantle the Arguineguín camp and appealed for the EU to make good on the “shared European commitment” to managing migration.

Spain’s interior ministry, meanwhile, has been criticised for refusing to allow journalists to document the plight of those stuck on the Arguineguín docks.

Judith Sunderland, Human Rights Watch’s acting deputy director for Europe and central Asia, visited the Canaries over the weekend and described the conditions on the docks as “pretty awful”. She said the Spanish authorities had been slow to act, even after it became clear that the Atlantic route was opening up again.

“The numbers surged and all of a sudden, it’s emergency mode and that’s when things get really bad,” she said. “There are two systemic problems, which are the lack of sufficient reception spaces on the islands and then the failure of the central government to systematically, routinely, and in significant numbers, transfer people to the mainland. Those are two very clear solutions.”

Sunderland said she had spoken to some women on the docks who had been in the hot, crowded camp for more than two weeks. The longer the migrants and refugees stayed in the area, she said, the worse things would get.

“They need to transfer people to the mainland,” she said. “That would alleviate the extreme pressure on the islands right now, which is a recipe for disaster.”

Sunderland recognised that Spain, like Italy, had been badly affected by the pandemic, but said it needed to overhaul its “shortsighted and poor” policymaking. “This is a challenge – but it’s not something that Spain can’t handle in a humane way,” she said. “Of course it can; it’s just a lack of will and coordination and a bit of money.”

In February, Spain’s migration ministry set up its own management centre in Tenerife with the capacity to accommodate 300-400 people and is about to open another centre. But the secretary of state for migration, Hana Jalloul, said the numbers of people arriving were overwhelming the islands’ reception resources.

The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, says the Atlantic route is having a resurgence in popularity because of enduring conflicts, land border closures due to coronavirus and increased controls in some north African countries.

At least 140 people died last month after a boat carrying 200 people caught fire and capsized off the coast of Senegal in the deadliest shipwreck recorded this year.





No.18 article:
UK universities seek legal and funding clarity over mass Covid testing plan

Scheme to screen students before Christmas break would run from end of November

UK universities are seeking assurances on funding and protections from being sued before they commit to government plans to get students home for Christmas through a mass testing scheme on campuses.

The testing could begin as early as 30 November under plans detailed in a letter from the universities minister, Michelle Donnelan, who invited vice-chancellors to register their interest by the end of the week.

The planning envisages a week of testing between 30 November and 6 December, ending a few days after the England lockdown is due to finish. Attempts are also being made to ensure the planning would be coordinated across the UK, with civil servants in Scotland holding discussions on Tuesday with universities there for example.

But university authorities are seeking clarity in a number of areas including how they would avoid being left open to the possibility of legal claims.

Details are also being sought about how the initiative will be funded, as well as assurances around validation of test results.

Under the plans, as understood by universities, preparations at testing sites would begin as early as next week while the test kits capable of giving results within an hour would be provided free of charge to universities. It follows pilot schemes at Durham and De Montfort Universities.

Universities UK, which speaks for 140 universities in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, welcomed the government’s “ambition” to enhance testing for students and staff.

But it added: “For a major rollout of asymptomatic testing to be successful, universities now need clear assurance of the effectiveness of the tests as well as further details from the government on specific responsibilities under the proposed scheme including the governance, indemnity, resourcing and costs recovery.”

The move towards testing that would also include asymptomatic students marks a change in the position of the government, which has avoided stating that it would do so despite pressure from universities and others.

The prime minister promised on Monday night that guidance for university students wishing to return home for Christmas would be issued soon.

“Clearly we don’t want young people going back and infecting elderly members of their family over the Christmas period,” he said.

The Independent Sage committee of experts warned in a report last week that without careful planning there were likely to be two new Covid-19 outbreaks as students travelled between towns and cities in the UK and internationally to go home for the Christmas break and return again in the new year.

If possible, it recommended that students should self-isolate and/or be tested – ideally twice – before returning home, as well as when at home. Testing capacity must be increased to enable this to happen, it said.

A number of UK universities have been running their own efforts to test students and staff for Covid-19, rather than relying on the much-criticised system being run in England.

There was a warning on Tuesday by a union representing academics and support staff that plans to mass test students “presented huge logistical challenges that may leave staff and students stuck in limbo”.

Jo Grady, the general secretary of the University and College Union, said: “Some of our concerns include whether all universities will be able to take part, how the tests will be administered, who will cover the costs, what the plan is for students who commute to campus daily from their family home, and how students who aren’t able to be tested will travel home safely.” 

She reiterated a call – which has also been made by Independent Sage – for the government to tell universities to immediately move all non-essential in-person teaching online.





No.19 article:
Pressure on testing capacity after start of autumn term took service by surprise, MPs told

The head of the NHS’s test and trace programme has acknowledged it failed to predict the scale of demand for coronavirus testing as schools and universities returned this autumn.

Appearing at a joint meeting of the health and social care committee and science and technology committee, Dido Harding said that the demand for testing in September took the service by surprise.

“As schools came back we saw demand significantly outstrip [the] planned capacity delivery,” she said, adding a similar surge in demand was seen in Scotland. “None of us were able to predict that in advance,” she said.

Challenged by Carol Monaghan, the MP for Glasgow, as to how it was possible that such a surge had not been predicted, Lady Harding said: “The reality is that we are all learning about Covid, we are learning about how the disease behaves and we are learning about how all of us as human beings and a society behave, and we are seeing that learning happening in real time across the whole world.”

Harding later said the system had expected some increase in demand, and had been building capacity to 500,000 tests a day by the end of October. “With the benefit of hindsight the balance between the supply and the demand forecast wasn’t right. Clearly that is true,” she said.

Asked when the next major surge in demand for testing was anticipated, Harding replied it was not her place to answer and that it was not an operational issue. “I defer to the clinical experts in that, rather than think that it is my job to know the answer to that question,” she said.

Graham Stringer, the MP for Blackley and Broughton, responded: “You are the executive chair of the National Institute of Health Protection, I would have expected you to have asked that question [about future demand] of professionals before and have an answer for this committee.” 

Stringer said he was “surprised and shocked” at Harding’s failure to answer not only that question, but queries about the proportion of funding that was spent on local versus national test-and-trace efforts.

 “That is the crux of the debate about test and trace, whether doing things locally is more effective than centrally,” he said.

Harding was also unable to say how long it was taking for the contacts of someone who had requested a test, and subsequently tested positive, to be told to self-isolate. The government scientific advisory body Sage has previously said this period was crucial for test and trace to reduce the R number – the number of people each person with the virus infects.

“I can’t give you a complete end to end average at this stage,” Harding said. “Clearly we have lots of work to do to get to the majority of people being tested and contacted within 72 hours, but we are reaching a meaningful proportion of that.”

Anyone wishing to get a test was now able to do so, although she was later forced to clarify that testing was only available for those with symptoms of Covid-19.

“As we stand now, testing is completely unconstrained across all four nations, anyone who wants to get a test anywhere across the country can get one today,” she said, adding that the average distance people now had to travel in England was, on average, less than three miles.

“This is a retail network that didn’t exist six months ago, that is now larger that the whole of Asda’s food business.”





No.20 article:
Western powers sidelined as Russia and Turkey use sway on local players to boost influence

The Russian-brokered ceasefire deal in Nagorno-Karabakh will empower both Moscow and Ankara as the new kingmakers in the South Caucasus, analysts said, redrawing security guarantees between Armenia and Azerbaijan with the conspicuous absence of the west.

As in the conflicts in Libya and Syria, Russia and Turkey have once again found themselves backing opposing sides, and used their sway on local players to negotiate for peace deals that guarantee their own influence.

“There’s an absolutely new geopolitical configuration,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, an influential political expert close to the Kremlin.

That configuration eschews France and the United States, which along with Russia had formed the OSCE Minsk Group and hosted talks since a key 1994 ceasefire that ended a bloody war between Armenia and Azerbaijan.

But the OSCE Minsk Group played little role in negotiating an end to the 2020 war, as the United States had appeared distracted under President Trump, was left off of initial communiques calling for an end to the violence.

Meanwhile, Turkish support for Azerbaijan helped launch a six-week offensive that had captured Shusha, a strategically-placed city in Nagorno-Karabakh, and was threatening the region’s largest city of Stepanakert until Russia stepped in with peacekeepers.

“The Minsk group basically doesn’t exist anymore,” said Lukyanov, calling Turkey an “important part of the equation”. “The military defeat of Armenia means that the previous status quo is impossible to restore. That means that the Russian role as a guarantor of stability is highly demanded by both sides.”

Early on Tuesday morning, the first of nearly 2,000 Russian peacekeepers deployed toward the Lachin corridor, a lifeline between mainland Armenia and Stepanakert, the largest city in Nagorno-Karabakh. Under the accord announced signed by Armenia and Azerbaijan, Russian troops will guard the corridor for five years.

The future for Stepanakert looks dim, said Laurence Broers, the Caucasus programme director at Conciliation Resources, a peace-building group, adding that “maybe the calculation is that it’s going to be such an awful place to live that most of the Armenian population – most of whom have already left – won’t come back”.

The mission is arguably Russia’s greatest intervention into the region since the 2008 Georgia war. Russia had resisted a peacekeeping role for weeks until it became clear that Azerbaijan was threatening to capture the whole of Nagorno-Karabakh.

“The idea was to let the Azeris win but not completely,” said Lukyanov. Under the agreement, Azerbaijan will retain control of the land it has captured during the war and retake territories outside of Nagorno-Karabakh under Armenian control.

Already on Tuesday there were signs of both sides jockeying to spin the peace deal. The Azerbaijan president, Ilham Aliyev, said that both Russian and Turkish peacekeepers would be deployed to Nagorno-Karabakh, shocking many Armenians. Russia quickly intervened, highlighting that Turkey was not an official partner to the peace agreement.

“Not a single word is said about this in the published statement,” Dmitri Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, told reporters on Tuesday. “The sides did not agree on that. The presence of Turkish soldiers in Karabakh was not coordinated.”

Turkey’s influence on the conflict has been well documented, as Ankara sold crucial drone technology to Azerbaijan, and Turkish security firms contracted with rebel fighters from Idlib to travel to Azerbaijan and fight on the front lines of the conflict.

And the opening of a direct link between Azerbaijan and its exclave of Nakhchivan, which borders Turkey, would create a land route from Turkey to mainland Azerbaijan.

All eyes will now be on the Russian peacekeepers in Nagorno-Karabakh, who are the key to maintaining a fragile ceasefire.

Broers said that the Russian peacekeepers could “look like a colonising force”.

“To go into a peacekeeping operation without a political process that could deliver a peace agreement basically means you’re there for good,” he said. “What’s been created now is an inherently unstable situation. That peacekeeping contingent will be vulnerable to provocations.”





No.21 article:
There are grounds for optimism but also several unknowns around this coronavirus vaccine

Hopes that the end of the coronavirus pandemic has become nearer have soared after the news that a coronavirus vaccine was found to be 90% effective in global trials.

Although there is definite reason to be optimistic, experts have cautioned that the data from the trials conducted by Pfizer and BioNTech are not final, and there remain plenty of unknowns.

The companies have said that no “serious safety concerns” have emerged so far, but they will continue to collect data.

There are some side-effects – like a sore arm or fever – that are quite common with vaccinations, noted Paul Hunter, professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia.

Given this is a brand-new type of vaccine – one which uses technology called mRNA that hasn’t until now been approved for use in humans – it is not impossible that someone could be allergic to a component of it, he said.

The study is designed to detect whether the vaccine can protect against severe Covid-19 disease, Pfizer has said, but data has not yet been made public.

“What we can say is that the vaccine stopped clinic symptomatic infection, but there is uncertainty over asymptomatic infection,” said Hunter. “But we will hopefully learn that as we go forward.”

Logically, if you don’t get infected then you can’t get severe disease, said Dr Alexander Edwards, associate professor at the University of Reading.

It is not yet clear whether or not the vaccine could protect against coronavirus infection or simply against developing symptoms once you are infected.

“If it’s stopping infection then, by definition, it should be stopping transmission from one person to another,” said Hunter.

“If you don’t get the infection because you’ve been immunised you’re not going to infect me anyway. But, if what you’re getting is an asymptomatic infection, there is still the risk potential that you could infect me, although it will almost certainly be a lot lower than if you are actually clinically ill.”

Children above the age of 12 and adults aged up to 85 are included in the trial but data broken down by age has not yet been released, noted Prof Beate Kampmann, from the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine.

Most vaccines do not work as well in older people, as they do in younger people. This is is not surprising as older people don’t always mount an effective immune response to a natural infection either, noted Hunter.

“So, it wouldn’t be surprising if elderly people didn’t respond as effectively as younger people to this vaccine, but that is something that we need to see the data on.”

It’s hard to say why the vaccine didn’t work in those patients without knowing who they were, said Dr Stephen Griffin from the University of Leeds.

“The vaccine will act on different people differently. So you often get different rates of response within populations — it could be that they were all more elderly, or it could be they are from a different racial background, or it could just be that this thing only works nine times out of 10,” Griffin said.

“Until you’ve really delved down into the nitty-gritty of the data it’s hard to understand exactly why some people respond and why some don’t”

The 90% effectiveness rate was calculated seven days after the second shot, but these results are likely to change as data is collected over the longer term.

Generally, to ascertain how long protection lasts, follow up studies will be required to detect levels of both types of immune responses – antibody and T cell – as well any repeated exposure risks, Kampmann said.





No.22 article:
GP clinics in England to administer at least 975 Covid vaccines a week

Plan for dedicated practices to run from 8am to 8pm seven days a week

Dedicated GP clinics are being established to each deliver nearly 1,000 Covid-19 vaccines a week in England, according to an official document, as the health secretary, Matt Hancock, declared he was confident the NHS would be ready to “inject hope into millions of arms this winter”.

Although Hancock has sounded a note of caution by warning a vaccine was not yet over the line, he has revealed that he has primed the NHS, supported by the armed forces, to be ready from the start of December for rollout.

It comes as it emerged that NHS England has told its 1,250 primary care networks to designate a single practice to administer vaccines in their area capable of operating during 12-hour shifts, from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week.

In a letter setting out the rollout strategy, which will be based on plans for a flu vaccine, NHS England said it was planning to be ready from December and practices would need to be able to deliver a “minimum of 975 doses per week or greater”. In a separate letter, clinics have been notified that an extra £150m is being ploughed into general practice as part of a “Covid capacity expansion fund” to help until March next year.

It follows widespread optimism after it was announced on Monday that an interim analysis indicated that Pfizer/BioNTech’s Covid vaccine was 90% effective in protecting people from transmission of the virus in global trials. Priority for a vaccine will go to people in care homes, elderly people and social care staff.

Meanwhile, figures released on Tuesday showed that one in eight deaths in England and Wales were coronavirus-related. According to the Office for Nationals statistics (ONS), there were 1,379 fatalities mentioning “novel coronavirus” registered in the week ending 30 October, representing 12.7% of all deaths.

Speaking in the Commons on Tuesday, Hancock told MPs “the best way to liberate and to get life closer to normal is a vaccine” but he also sounded a note of caution.

“We do not have a vaccine yet but we are one step closer,” Hancock said. “There are many steps still to take. The full safety data is not yet available and our strong and independent regulator, the MHRA, will not approve a vaccine until it is clinically safe. And until it’s rolled out we won’t know how long the effect lasts for or its impact, not just on keeping people safe, but also on reducing transmission.”

If the vaccine, or any other, is approved, Hancock pledged that the country would be ready to begin a large-scale vaccination programme. “We do not yet know whether or when a vaccine is approved but I have tasked the NHS with being ready from any date from 1 December. The logistics are complex, the uncertainties are real and the scale of the job is vast but I know that the NHS, brilliantly assisted by the armed services, will be up to the task,” he explained.

“Deployment of the vaccine will involve working long days, and weekends, and it comes on top of all the NHS has already done for us this year,” Hancock said, adding: “I know that they will rise to this challenge, of being ready when the science comes good, to inject hope into millions of arms this winter.”

The NHS England letter states: “Given the uncertainty over whether, and when, a vaccine may be approved, we are planning to be ready from any date from December with mass vaccination more likely in the New Year.”

It adds: “Designated sites will need to be able to deliver a vaccination service seven days per week including bank holidays between 8am and 8pm if vaccine supply allows. Vaccinations will be centrally supplied and guidance will be issued shortly on the ordering process.

“Practices will need to deliver a minimum of 975 vaccinations over a seven-day period from each designated site, ensuring all those vaccinations are administered within the appropriate shelf life.”

The letter explains that practices will be given £12.58 for each vaccine dose, meaning they will receive £25.16 for each patient vaccinated in a two-dose course. Under the programme, patients will be required to undergo a 15-minute observation after the vaccine is administered. Annual flu jabs must be given at least a week apart from Covid vaccines, the documents say, and appointments can be booked through a national system.

“Once patients are notified by the national call/recall service they are eligible for a vaccination, they would have the choice to book an appointment at a general practice-led vaccination centre or, use the national booking service to be vaccinated by another provider,” the letter says.





No.23 article:
Critics say halt in testing of Covid vaccine CoronaVac is politically motivated

The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, has sparked outrage by gloating over the suspension of clinical trials of the Chinese coronavirus vaccine after a volunteer’s death.

“Another victory for Jair Bolsonaro,” read a comment posted by the official Facebook account of Brazil’s far-right leader on Monday night after the country’s health regulator, Anvisa, announced it had halted testing of the CoronaVac jab.

Anvisa said the trial of the vaccine – which is being developed by the Chinese biopharmaceutical firm Sinovac Biotech – had been suspended as a result of a “adverse, serious event” involving a participant in Brazil.

But many Bolsonaro critics see a possible political motivation behind the move, and the head of the Brazilian research centre coordinating the trial claimed the volunteer’s death was not related to the vaccine.

The broadcaster TV Cultura reported on Tuesday that the “event” was suicide, saying it had seen the coroner’s report showing the trial volunteer had taken their own life.

The CoronaVac is being developed in partnership with the São Paulo-based research centre Butantan and has been championed by São Paulo’s state governor, João Doria, who is one of Bolsonaro’s biggest political foes.

That rivalry has placed the CoronaVac at the centre of a growing political brawl with Doria, who many believe will challenge Bolsonaro for the presidency in 2022, who promised to implement a compulsory vaccination scheme in his state while the president opposed such a move.

On Monday night Bolsonaro wrote on Facebook: “This is the vaccine Doria wanted to force everyone in São Paulo to take. Another victory for Jair Bolsonaro.”

Those comments caused immediate anger. “163,000 dead in Brazil. And Bolsonaro says he’s won,” tweeted Flávio Dino, the leftwing governor of Maranhão state and one of the key figures in Brazil’s opposition.

Speaking on Tuesday morning Dino said Bolsonaro’s “bizarre, irresponsible and ridiculous” remarks reflected the president’s ideological opposition to China and its Communist party leaders as well as his “personal hatred” of Doria.

“Once more Bolsonaro has shown that he’s not worried about the lives and wellbeing of the population but simply his own ideological interests … Bolsonaro treats everything as an ideological war,” Dino, who is also seen as a potential leftwing challenger for the presidency, told the Guardian.

Ciro Gomes, another prominent leftist leader, tweeted: “Prison’s not enough for scumbags who play politics with a vaccine, the only way of bringing an end to the greatest public health and socioeconomic crisis in history.”

While vaccine trials are often halted to investigate suspected side-effects, including the phase 3 trial of the British Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, the language used by the Brazilian authorities was unusually strong although they provided no additional details except that the adverse event took place in late October.

Clouding the issue were comments from Dimas Covas, Butantan’s director, who told Brazilian TV that the volunteer’s death was not due to the vaccine. “We found this … decision strange, because it is unrelated to the vaccine. There are more than 10,000 volunteers at this moment,” he added.

The decision to halt the programme comes just days before the first large batch of 120,000 CoronaVac shots are due to arrive in Brazil on 20 November. The rollout is now likely to be delayed. 

CoronaVac shot has been embroiled in political controversy in Brazil, where Bolsonaro, who has a history of minimising the threat of coronavirus, has cast doubt on its prospective effectiveness.

He sparked confusion last month when he publicly rejected it, saying Brazilians would not be used as guinea pigs. 

Bolsonaro has often expressed mistrust of China, particularly on the campaign trail in 2018, although he has softened his rhetoric somewhat in office.

Coming hard on the heels of the disclosure yesterday that the German BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine had demonstrated 90% effectiveness in its interim results, the Brazilian announcement marked the latest stumble in a global stop-start progress being watched anxiously around the world.

Critics have expressed concern about what has sometimes appeared an unseemly and occasionally unethical race to get vaccines approved for use.

With 170 teams working on different vaccines around the world, huge capital – including political – has been invested in getting the first successful vaccines to the market.

The Chinese government’s approach to vaccines has become controversial after it had been revealed that hundreds of thousands of Chinese had already taken experimental Covid-19 vaccines as part of a state initiative to protect frontline health workers and officials travelling to high-risk nations.

Critics have long warned that failure to follow proper international testing and safety protocols for potential Covid-19 vaccines risk undermining public trust and could increase public resistance to inoculation.

Another Chinese vaccine candidate, produced by Sinopharm’s China National Biotec Group (CNBG) is currently in phase 3 trials in more than 10 countries, including the UAE, where it has been granted emergency use authorisation after the country’s own testing.

The UAE has also been used to recruit volunteers for Russian vaccine candidates, where similar anxieties have been expressed about two Russian vaccines that were given hasty regulatory approval despite not having completed full phase 3 testing.

The Russian vaccine Sputnik V – developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute in Moscow – was given the green light by Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation in August, while a second vaccine in Russia, EpiVacCorona, was also approved without entering phase 3 clinical trials.

The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, said on Tuesday that all Russian vaccines against Covid-19 were effective, adding that the country would soon register a third shot against the virus. 





No.24 article:
UK expels Belarus diplomats in tit-for-tat move

Foreign Office retaliates after expulsion of British diplomats following protests in Minsk

Britain has expelled two Belarusian diplomats in response to the removal of two UK envoys from the former Soviet bloc country, the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, has said.

The move came after the British diplomats, including a defence attache, were ordered home from the capital, Minsk.

The British diplomats were expelled on Monday after Belarus objected to their observation of street protests in Minsk on Sunday. Raab said the expulsions ran counter to diplomatic norms since the two diplomats had been carrying out legitimate duties.

The Belarusian ambassador, Maxim Yermalovich, was summoned to the Foreign Office on Tuesday afternoon to be informed of the decision. The UK said its decision was appropriate and proportionate.

Britain has already imposed sanctions on the Belarusian president, Alexander Lukashenko, following his disputed re-election in August. Opponents called for a re-run of the poll amid widespread claims of vote-rigging and a brutal crackdown on demonstrators by the authorities.

In its statement, the UK Foreign Office said: “During the summons, the UK government reiterated that the only way forward is for fresh elections to be held and for those responsible for violence against demonstrators to be held to account”.

“We have sent a clear message today to Lukashenko’s regime that their unjustified expulsion of British diplomats has consequences. The UK will continue to hold the Belarusian authorities to account for the rigged election in August and their ongoing use of violence to suppress the Belarusian people.”

The UK has already responded robustly to the torture and mistreatment of hundreds of peaceful protesters in custody by imposing landmark sanctions on Lukashenko and senior figures in the Belarusian government under the UK’s new human rights sanctions regime.





No.25 article:
Vatican report faults successive popes over defrocked cardinal Theodore McCarrick

Investigation show how American was allowed to rise through church despite abuse allegations

Pope John Paul II promoted a senior figure in the US Catholic church in the face of persistent rumours of his sexual misconduct, a two-year Vatican investigation has found.

The report, published on Tuesday, highlighted failings by successive popes, Vatican officials and US clerics who allowed Cardinal Theodore McCarrick to rise through church ranks despite multiple allegations of abuse.

McCarrick, a former archbishop of Washington DC, became the most senior figure in the Catholic church to be defrocked after a Vatican hearing last year found him guilty of sexual crimes in the 1970 and 80s, “with the aggravating factor of the abuse of power”.

Pope Francis, who was accused of ignoring the allegations against McCarrick, ordered an investigation in October 2018 – more than two decades after the alarm was first raised. The report largely absolves Francis of blame in the church’s failures over McCarrick. 

The inquiry heard from 90 witnesses and examined dozens of documents, letters and transcripts from Vatican and US church archives. Its 460-page document said the US church hierarchy was aware of consistent rumours that McCarrick preyed on adult male seminarians, but “credible evidence” did not surface until 2017.

McCarrick has said he had no recollection of child abuse and has not commented publicly on allegations of misconduct with adults. Now aged 90, he is living in isolation.

In 1999, Pope John Paul II was advised that it would be imprudent to promote McCarrick because of “rumours” of sexual misconduct with seminarians dating back to the 1980s.

An investigation by the Vatican ambassador to the US, requested by the pontiff, “confirmed that McCarrick had shared a bed with young men” but said there was no certainty that he had engaged in sexual acts.

In August 2000, McCarrick wrote to Pope John Paul’s private secretary rebutting the allegations. “McCarrick’s denial was believed,” the report said.

Three months later, Pope John Paul appointed McCarrick archbishop of Washington DC, one of the most prestigious posts in the US church. The following year, McCarrick was made a cardinal, and became a celebrated fundraiser for the church, travelling extensively and enjoying privileged status.

Pope John Paul’s willingness to believe McCarrick’s denial was probably influenced by his experience in his native Poland when the communist government used “spurious allegations against bishops to degrade the standing of the church,” the report said.

One of McCarrick’s alleged victims said he had been sexually abused by the cleric from 1971, when he was a 16-year-old altar boy in New York. Another man subsequently claimed he had also been abused as a child by McCarrick, and several former trainee priests alleged they had been sexually harassed by the former cardinal at his New Jersey beach house.

“During extended interviews, often emotional, [witnesses] described a range of behaviour, including sexual abuse or assault, unwanted sexual activity, intimate physical contact and the sharing of beds without physical touching. These interviews also included detailed accounts related to McCarrick’s abuse of authority and power,” the report said.

Under Pope Benedict, who succeeded John Paul in 2005, more information came to light. McCarrick was eventually told he should withdraw as a bishop, and Benedict accepted McCarrick’s resignation in 2006.

After he was elected in 2013, Pope Francis became aware of “allegations and rumours” concerning McCarrick’s past behaviour. “Believing the allegations had already been reviewed and rejected by Pope John Paul, and well aware that McCarrick was active during the papacy of Benedict XVI, Pope Francis did not see the need to alter the approach that had been adopted in prior years,” the report said.

But after a former altar boy came forward in 2017 alleging that McCarrick had groped him when he was a minor in the 1970s, Francis ordered the canonical trial that resulted in his defrocking.

In 2018, a retired Vatican diplomat accused the pontiff of being aware of rumours about McCarrick’s behaviour but failing to take action.

In an 11-page testimony, archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, 77, a former Vatican ambassador to the US, called on Francis to step down, saying: “Corruption has reached the very top of the church’s hierarchy.” The accusations were seized on by Francis’s conservative enemies.

The report – a rare example of self-scrutiny by the Vatican – throws a spotlight on what Pope Francis has called a “culture of clericalism” in the church, with cardinals, bishops and priests considered beyond reproach and claims of sexual abuse downplayed or dismissed as rumours.





No.26 article:
Calls for full lockdown as daily infections top 10,000 for second consecutive day 

A new nightly curfew for business in Tehran to slow the spread of Covid-19 is unlikely to be sufficient as daily new infections in Iran topped 10,000 for the second day in a row, experts warned.

On Tuesday, the Iranian ministry of health revealed 10,339 new infections in the previous 24 hours, with the number of new deaths reaching 453, just six fewer than the record set on Sunday.

Iran has now suffered 39,202 deaths since the virus struck, making it one of the most afflicted countries not just in the Middle East but the world.

The Iranian authorities have imposed a nightly shutdown of businesses in Tehran from 6pm in an attempt to halt a disease that risks spiralling out of control in a country suffering severe pressure on its health services. 

But many health experts and politicians regard the measures as inadequate, with the number of daily new infections rising from just over 5,000 a day on 20 October to Tuesday’s high of 10,339. The total number of recorded cases increased to 703,283.

At a press conference, the government spokesman Ali Rabiei said the most important issue facing the country was the fight against the virus, and claimed a new mutation was at large. He declared that the virus now spreading in the country did not follow the behaviour of previous iterations, adding “it has undergone many dramatic changes from the beginning until today”.

He continued: “So far, 88% of the deaths were from the elderly and people with underlying diseases, but now the virus is affecting younger people even more severely.” He said: “600 daily deaths in France show these changes.”

While it is well established that the coronavirus has gone through a number of mutations, various claims over the course of the pandemic that it could be becoming either more contagious, lethal or even less severe have generally seen pushback from the World Health Organization and other health bodies that have been monitoring the changes to the virus.

The most recent mutation to draw attention was a variant found in mink in Danish fur farms, which prompted so far unsupported claims last week that it might be resistant to a future vaccine.

Rabiei urged Iranians not to be tired with the struggle against the disease, but instead to adhere to the protocols even more closely, adding many of the transmissions seemed to be occurring mainly in family settings or in buildings with little ventilation.

Hossein Ali Shahriari, the head of the parliamentary health commission, wrote a letter to the president asking him to shut down Tehran and its metropolitan areas for 15 to 30 days due to the severity of the outbreak.

He said the damage of a two-week shutdown would be less than leaving the crisis as it stood with hospital beds running out. The financial cost to the government of supporting workers and small businesses hit by the shutdown would be less than the cost to the health service, he said. The nightly 6pm business curfew and fines for not wearing masks were not sufficient steps, he said.

With the Iranian political classes hotly debating the implications of Joe Biden’s election as president for the terms of a possible US return to the Iranian nuclear deal, the future of the Iranian economy and the potential lifting of sanctions, many Iranian officials want to keep the focus on fighting the virus by creating what is described as a huge social movement to save one another’s lives through acting responsibly to one another. 

Iranian front pages have run photos showing the faces of 99 health workers killed by the virus, and urging their readers to recognise their responsibilities.





No.27 article:
US tech firm accused by Brussels of using data it collects on retailers 

Amazon has been charged by the European commission with using the sales data of independent retailers selling through its site to illegally gain an advantage in the European marketplace.

The US tech firm and online retailer was accused by Brussels of using the information it collects on retailers to focus its own efforts on the bestselling products with the biggest profit margins.

Margrethe Vestager, the commission’s vice-president, said the commission’s preliminary conclusion was that Amazon used “big data” to illegally distort competition in France and Germany, the biggest online retail markets in Europe.

Brussels has also decided to open a second investigation into Amazon’s e-commerce business practices over concerns that the Seattle-based company set rules on its platform to benefit its own offers and those independent retailers using its logistics and delivery services.

Last month, Amazon announced a third quarter income for 2020 of $6.3bn, triple that of the previous year, as an increasing number of shoppers turn to online sales amid the pandemic.

Vestager told a press conference in Brussels that the commission did not have an issue with the size of the company but only with its business practices which appeared to illegally stymy the growth of its competitors.

“We all know how important e-commerce is today and the current crisis has demonstrated even further that buying online is now commonplace for many, many people, people shop online more frequently and for an increasing variety of products,” Vestager said. “The value of online sales in Europe has been growing steadily. And it has almost doubled in the last five years, reaching almost €720bn this year, up from more than €370bn in 2015.

“And Amazon is at the centre of this market development. More than 70% of consumers in France, and more than 80% of consumers in Germany, that made online purchases bought something from Amazon in the last 12 months. We do not take issue with the success of Amazon or its size. Our concern is very specific business contacts which appears to distort genuine competition.”

Amazon has been under investigation since July during which officials analysed a data sample covering more than 18m transactions and more than 100m products.

The commission found that real time business data relating to independent retailers on the site was being fed into an algorithm used by Amazon’s own retail business.

“It is based on these algorithms that Amazon decides what new products to launch, the price of each individual offer, the management of inventories and the choice of the best supplier for a product,” Vestager said. “We therefore come to the preliminary conclusion that the use of this data allows Amazon to focus on the sale of the best selling products, and this marginalises third party sellers and caps their ability to grow.”

The company has been sent a formal statement of objection to which it has the opportunity to respond. In a statement Amazon said it disagreed with the findings. “There are more than 150,000 European businesses selling through our stores that generate tens of billions of euros in revenues annually,” the company said.





No.28 article:
&#x27;Mass hoppers&#x27; giving us anxiety, say Irish priests

Catholic priests say parishioners’ focus on viewing figures is also fuelling pressure 

Irish Catholic priests are being afflicted by performance anxiety during online masses because of bad reviews from “mass-hopping” worshippers.

Parishioners are pressuring priests in Ireland to install webcams and to spice up their services to attract more viewers, according to the Association of Catholic Priests (ACP).

Covid-19 restrictions have obliged churches to move services online, prompting some worshippers to rate priests as if they were television presenters, according to Fr Brendan Hoban, a co-founder of the group.

“They’re hopping from mass to mass, just sampling them,” he said. “Priests are under huge pressure to perform. They are being marked out on their particular performances.”

Parishioners were comparing viewing figures as if it were a competition, said Fr Hoban. “It’s an indication if their church is as good as the church down the road. ‘We have 47 hits, another has 2,000 hits – what’s wrong with you, father? Why do we have only 47 hits?’

“They would say the priest next door has A, B, C and D in terms of presentation skills.” The parishioner comments were made in person or over the phone, he said.

Fr Tim Hazelwood, a spokesman for the ACP, drew attention to the issue in a Zoom address to the group’s annual general meeting on 28 October. Some priests had stopped doing online services because of a “sense of judgement, of assessment”, he said.

“The reality is a lot of us are not performers who take to this easily. A lot of the lads are very self-conscious. We are bald, old-looking, don’t speak very well.” Some of the “mass hoppers” delivered harsh verdicts, said Hazelwood, who is based in Cork.

“I know some of the lads have been very hurt by them. And then you have this thing about how many followers have you. All that judgment stuff you can intellectualise it away but it hits at your gut, at your heart. It has been hurtful. Some of the lads have stopped going [online] because they couldn’t take it.”

Although online performance anxiety might sound like a Father Ted plotline updated for the Covid-19 era, Hoban said it was a serious problem for elderly, vulnerable men doing their best to cope with multiple pressures. The average age of priests in Ireland was 72, and most lived alone and many had health problems, he said.

Many do not feel comfortable saying mass in an empty church under the lens of a webcam. “They don’t know where the congregation is, out there in the ether. You could watch a mass in Japan as easily as one in [county] Mayo. It could be two people or a thousand. They’re not trained with doing mass in this way.”

Hoban said priests felt additional pressure from some parishioners and conservative commentators who wanted them to lobby the government to lift restrictions on churches. He said priests with underlying health conditions were nervous about large numbers attending services.

The ACP has set up a confidential helpline for priests struggling with isolation but so far there have been few calls, according to Hoban. “This worries us. We know there is a need but unfortunately they’re not coming forward.”

• The photograph accompanying this article was changed on 10 November 2020 to better reflect the content. The previous image showed Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin, the city’s Anglican cathedral.





No.29 article:
Saeb Erekat, veteran Palestinian peace negotiator, dies after Covid diagnosis

Key PLO figure and advocate for two-state solution dies aged 65 

Saeb Erekat, the veteran Palestinian peace negotiator and one of the most high-profile figures in its leadership since the early 1990s, has died after contracting coronavirus.

Erekat, a lawmaker from Jericho in the occupied West Bank, was a senior adviser to the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, and also worked for Abbas’s predecessor, Yasser Arafat. He served as the secretary-general of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO).

Unrelenting in his indignation against Israeli control over Palestinian life, the US-educated former journalist and academic was well-known to three decades of diplomatic and media circles for his condemnation of what he eventually described as apartheid, delivering his criticism in his trademark staccato voice.

The 65-year-old underwent a lung transplant in the US in 2017 and had been in poor health since. On 8 October, he announced he had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and later said he was experiencing “difficult symptoms”. 

After being transferred to Hadassah hospital in Jerusalem, doctors said his condition deteriorated to become critical, and he was placed on a ventilator. On Tuesday one of his senior aides announced that he had died.

Having studied politics in the US and peace studies in the UK, Erekat was a key player pushing for the two-state solution doctrine, under which the country of Palestine would be created alongside Israel. In early peace negotiations, he wore a black-and-white checked keffiyeh scarf as a symbol of the Palestinian nation he envisioned.

Several officials from across the spectrum, including Israeli politicians, commemorated his life. Tzipi Livni, the former Israeli foreign minister who had sat on the opposite side of the table to Erekat, said she was saddened by his death.

“Saeb dedicated his life to his people,” she wrote on Twitter. “Being sick, he texted me: ‘I’m not finished with what I was born to do’. My deepest condolences to the Palestinians and his family. He will be missed.”

“I’m not finished with what I was born to do,” he recently messaged Tzipi Livni, the former Israeli foreign minister and one of his main negotiating partners. “I overcame a lung transplant, and I’ll defeat this Covid.”

Erekat witnessed the teasing beginnings of that aspiration materialise. In 1994, his home town of Jericho was handed over from Israeli troops to Palestinian forces in what was expected to be the first stages of an eventual deal.

“It is a partly joyous feeling, but I also believe we have only begun,” he told the Guardian in May 1994. “It is a time to plan, to work hard and to tighten our belts. We cannot afford to fail.”

Three years later, Erekat was more pessimistic, telling the Los Angeles Times that Israel’s new hardline prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, considered the peace accords signed by his predecessor as a “poison dagger in his heart. He must pull it out”.

“I think Netanyahu’s ultimate goal is to get his tanks rolling into the Palestinian areas,” Erekat told the paper. “To be honest with you, I think the worst is coming.”

What followed was the bloody Second Intifada, several failed attempts to resuscitate the peace agreement and Israel’s increasingly permanent grip over the occupied West Bank, something Erekat referred to as the “colonial-settler occupation”. Palestinians living there now reside in semi-enclaves – urban areas with some form of autonomy but ultimately with their lives dominated by Israeli forces.

Despite being in his mid-60s, Erekat was a younger member of Abbas’s senior leadership team, which has been criticised by Palestinians for being undemocratic and failing to drive real change.

During Erekat’s final years, Netanyahu, encouraged by Donald Trump, declared his intention to annex huge swaths of the West Bank, a move seen as the death blow to the two-state ideal.

After Trump recognised the contested city of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in 2017, Erekat said the message was clear: “The two-state solution is over. Now is the time to transform the struggle for one state with equal rights for everyone living in historic Palestine.”

Despite his continued pessimism, Erekat remained a prolific voice, including for the two-state solution, holding regular conferences with reporters in Jericho.

During one of his last meetings, in May, the politician warned that Israeli aspirations to annex land would lead future generations of Palestinians to abandon the idea of a negotiated solution.

“I’m one of the ones who promised Palestinians, that once we recognise Israel, once we renounce violence, once we accept the two-state solution, once we negotiate, then we can have our independence,” he said.

“Who will be the Palestinian in the next 1,000 years looking at my experience and what we’ve done, who will be willing to sit with the Israelis at the table?”





No.30 article:




No.31 article:
Barcelona terror attack: three in court in Madrid

Trio accused of links to deadly van attack on La Rambla in 2017 and subsequent assault in nearby coastal town

Three men have appeared in court in Madrid to face trial over their alleged roles in the 2017 terror attacks in Catalonia that left 16 people dead and 140 wounded.

The perpetrators of the atrocities – Spain’s worst terror attack since the Madrid train bombings in March 2004 – used a van to knock down pedestrians on Barcelona’s La Rambla boulevard on 17 August 2017 and then staged another assault the following day in the Catalan coastal town of Cambrils.

Local police shot the five Cambrils attackers dead at the scene while officers killed the Barcelona attacker a few days later. Isis claimed responsibility for the attacks, saying their authors were “soldiers of the Islamic State”.

One of those on trial, Mohamed Houli Chemlal, said the cell had been planning larger scale bomb attacks against targets including Barcelona’s Sagrada Familia church, but had changed their plans after an explosion tore through the house where the plotters were staying in the coastal town of Alcanar.

The Catalan police, the Mossos d’Esquadra, also said the blast had deprived the group of the capacity to stage an even deadlier attack.

“The explosion in Alcanar meant they no longer had the necessary material to plan larger scale attacks in Barcelona,” said Josep Lluís Trapero, head of the force at the time. “They were probably trying to carry out a different kind of attack.”

Chemlal was injured in the blast, which killed two of the plotters, including Abdelbaki Es Satty, an imam suspected of radicalising and organising the cell.

Prosecutors are seeking a 41-year jail term for Chemlal on charges of belonging to a terrorist organisation, possession of explosives and conspiracy to commit terrorist acts. But, like his co-accused, Chemlal is not facing murder charges.

Driss Oukabir, whose brother was one of the attackers shot dead in Cambrils, faces the same charges as Chemlal, for which prosecutors are seeking a 36-year sentence. The 31-year-old has admitted hiring the van used in the Barcelona attack, but claims he believed the vehicle had been hired for a house move.

The third defendant, Said Ben Iazza, 27, faces an eight-year sentence on charges of collaborating with a terror group for allegedly lending the conspirators his identity documents and a van “that he knew would be used to buy and transport chemical products”.

The head of one of the victims’ associations that is acting as a civil party in the proceedings said he would push for the accused to answer for the deaths of those murdered in the attacks.

“[We’re] going to fight for a murder charge and sentence for the accused ... regardless of how close or far they were from the van [used in Barcelona],” said Eulogio Paz.

The trial is expected to run until 16 December.







No.32 article:
US accused of using Covid as excuse to deny children their right to asylum

Since tighter migration controls were announced in March, US has deported more than 1,400 unaccompanied minors to Guatemala

US authorities have radically accelerated the expulsion of unaccompanied children to Guatemala, but advocates accuse the Trump administration of using the Covid-19 pandemic as a pretext to rob vulnerable youngsters of asylum protections enshrined in US and international law.

Since tighter migration controls were announced in March, the US has deported more than 1,400 unaccompanied minors to Guatemala, according to data from the Guatemalan Migration Institute. A total of 407 children were expelled in October alone.

In comparison, in the whole of 2019, the US deported 385 unaccompanied minors to Guatemala.

US officials cited the threat of coronavirus when they invoked Title 42, a previously obscure clause of the 1944 Public Health Services Law, to justify the crackdown.

The law, which gives the government the power to take emergency action to prevent “introduction of communicable diseases”, orders the immediate expulsion of migrants detained between ports of entry. It also denies nearly everyone who arrives at the border the ability to apply for asylum.

Migration legal advocates argue the measure violates migrants’ rights to access the asylum process.

“Without a court order currently blocking the Trump administration from subjecting unaccompanied children to these rapid expulsions, children continue to be denied their right to seek protection in the United States,” said Aaron Reichlin-Melnick, a lawyer and policy counsel with the American Immigration Council.

“Under the Title 42 expulsion process the government has argued that public health laws override all normal immigration laws, and allows them to deport children without ever giving them their right to seek protection,” he said. “The Trump administration has taken what are generalized quarantine powers and interpreted into the powers the authority to expel people and override normal immigration law, which is why we say this is an unlawful policy.”

The surge in the repatriation of unaccompanied minors comes at the same time as the a sharp rise in the deportations of Cameroonian and other African asylum seekers, many of whom are alleged to have forced to sign or fingerprint their deportation orders.

According to Witness at the Border, an immigrant rights advocacy group, the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (Ice) carried out 129 flights believed to be deportations, more than any other in 2020, including months before the start of the pandemic.

In July, the Associated Press revealed that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (Ice) was housing unaccompanied minors in hotels before expulsion. That policy was halted by a federal judge in September, but rapid expulsions of minors have continued.

On arrival in Guatemala, child migrants are taken into the care of the presidency’s social wellbeing secretariat and lodged in a shelter in Guatemala City before being reunited with their families.

Organizations from civil society like the Pop No’j Association, which works within indigenous communities across Guatemala, often help migrants return to their homes. The organization also assists with psychological attention for minors who have suffered the trauma caused by the deportation and expulsion.

Many of the children’s families lack the money to pay for their return to their communities.

“The majority of families do not have the economic resources to travel to Guatemala City,” Silvia Raquec, the coordinator of immigration issues for Pop No’j, told the Guardian.

The pandemic initially caused a freeze in migration through Central America, as countries closed their borders and imposed lockdowns.

But since then, the flow of migrants from Guatemala has steadily increased – not least because of the devastating economic impact of lockdown measures, according to Raquec and to apprehension data from US Customs and Border Protection.

“The conditions in countries of origin continue to worsen,” Raquec said. “The people continue to migrate, and people continue to have the idea that it is easier to pass with children, which isn’t true.”

According to Raquec, a large number of younger minors migrate with family members or acquaintances, but are separated upon apprehension by the CPB agents.

“The reality is that they are not going alone, they are going with a family member or a neighbor,” she said. “You are not going to find a child who goes to the US alone, there is normally an adult accompanying them. They are converted into unaccompanied minors at the moment of detention.”





No.33 article:
Virgilio Maganes shot outside his home in what NUJP says is 18th such killing under Duterte

A Filipino journalist who survived a previous attempt on his life by pretending to be dead has been killed outside his home, police have said.

Virgilio Maganes, 62, who was a commentator for DWPR radio station in the northern province of Pangasinan, died instantly after he was shot six times by motorcycle-riding gunmen, Major Christian Alucod told AFP.

The National Union of Journalists of the Philippines (NUJP) condemned the murder, which it said was the 18th such killing since Rodrigo Duterte became president in 2016.

“His death is an indictment on this government’s empty boast that press freedom is alive and well in the country,” the union said.

Police said the motive for the killing was not clear.

The NUJP said Maganes had survived a 2016 shooting by “playing dead” after being hit. A note left at the scene during the first attempt on his life said: “I’m a drug pusher, don’t emulate me.”

Such messages were common in extrajudicial killings during the height of the government’s campaign against illegal drugs that has resulted in thousands of deaths.

The Philippines is one of the most dangerous countries in the world for journalists and most of their killers go free. The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists said last month the Philippines was seventh in its global impunity index.





No.34 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Health secretary says NHS is preparing for mass rollout but stresses ‘we’re not there yet’ 

Matt Hancock has sounded a note of caution over the prospect of a Covid-19 vaccine, stressing that “we’re not there yet” – but revealed he has asked the NHS to be ready for rollout as soon as next month.

The UK health secretary indicated he anticipated a “mass rollout” would happen in the first part of next year if the vaccine was given the green light, although he said he had requested the NHS, supported by the armed forces, to be ready from the start of December.

Priority for the vaccine will go to people in care homes, elderly people and social care staff. It will be delivered through care homes, GPs and pharmacists, as well as “go-to” centres set up in venues such as sports halls. 

“We will be working across the NHS with the support of the armed forces seven days a week, over weekends, over bank holidays, to get this rolled out into people’s arms as quickly as possible,” Hancock told BBC Breakfast on Tuesday.

The vaccine would not be required for children and uptake would be voluntary, Hancock said.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

There was widespread optimism after it emerged that an interim analysis indicated that Pfizer/BioNTech’s vaccine was 90% effective in protecting people from transmission of the virus in global trials. But Hancock said it would not be administered to the population unless it was proven to be clinically safe.

“I think that this is a promising step forward but there’s many steps that still need to be taken. Perhaps the most important to stress is that we’ve seen the effectiveness data but we will not license a vaccine unless it is clinically safe and we haven’t seen the final safety data,” Hancock said later on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

“So that is the biggest hurdle still to come and if that fails then … it doesn’t matter how effective this vaccine is, we won’t deploy it. And then, of course, there’s the enormous challenge of the rollout.”

The UK government had bought 40m doses of the vaccine, he said, adding: “It takes two doses 21 days apart, it has to be stored until the last few hours before deployment at -70C, and this is going to be a colossal effort to roll this out, which the NHS is leading.

“We’ve been working on it for months in anticipation of this going right. We haven’t got a vaccine yet, we’re not there yet. But we are one important step closer and we’re ready, we’ll be ready to deploy it.”

Pressed on how long the process to establish the safety of the vaccine would be, Hancock said: “We’re talking most likely weeks, however it happens at the speed of the science.”

callout-coronavirus

If cleared, Hancock confirmed it was a possibility that some of the vaccine could be ready for use by Christmas. “My central expectation is that the mass rollout of this vaccine will, if it comes good, be in the first part of next year,” he said.

Separately, Hancock told Sky News on Tuesday: “I’ve asked the NHS, who are supported by the armed services in this – but the NHS very much leading this effort for deploying the vaccine – I’ve asked them to be ready from the start of December.”





No.35 article:
Saudi Arabia considers clemency for female activists ahead of G20

Summit host mulling whether detentions do it more harm than good, UK ambassador says 

Saudi Arabia is considering clemency for jailed female activists ahead of its hosting of the G20 summit this month, the Saudi ambassador to the UK has said.

The kingdom has been under growing pressure on its human rights record ahead of the summit, which is to be held virtually on 21 and 22 November. This includes the fate of a group of women who were prominent in the campaign for the right to drive. One of the themes of the G20 is women’s empowerment.

Speaking to the Guardian, Khalid bin Bandar bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud said the women had been detained for reasons other than seeking the right to drive, but that a debate was under way in the foreign ministry about whether their continued detention was causing Saudi Arabia so much political damage that it was not worthwhile.

It is rare for senior diplomats to give an insight into internal debates within the often secretive court.

“The G20, does it offer an opportunity for clemency? Possibly. That is a judgment for someone other than me,” he said. “People ask: is it worth the damage it is causing you, whatever they did? That is a fair argument to make and it is a discussion we have back at home within our political system and within our ministry.

“There is a variety of views. Some people say it doesn’t matter what other people think of us, what is important is to do what is right for our country, and if people knowingly break our laws they should be punished according to those laws. Other people say it isn’t worth it, let them out, let them live their lives and ignore them.”

One of the jailed women, Loujain al-Hathloul has been on hunger strike in Al-Hayer high security prison since 26 October in protest at her conditions there. A UN women’s rights committee expressed alarm last week at her deteriorating health.

Hathloul was arrested with nine other women’s rights advocates in May 2018, months before women were finally granted the right to drive. Her family, including her sister, claim she has been tortured. At least five of those arrested remain in jail.

The ambassador said there was merit in the arguments both for and against clemency.“We are definitely moving in a different direction, but we are not a western nation and people need to understand that some of our beliefs are different,” he said.

Hathloul’s sister Lina dismissed the ambassador’s remarks, saying: “This is simply a PR stunt, again. Loujain and most of the jailed Saudi activists have not been convicted. ⁦It’s been nearly three years and they are still arbitrarily and illegally detained.”

The ambassador also said he hoped the G20 meeting would adopt a long-term programme of post-Covid debt relief for the world’s poorest countries.

Saudi Arabia has also been hit by Covid’s impact on economic activity and the fall in the oil price and private sector investment. The government’s budget deficit is predicted to widen to 12.8% of GDP this year from 4.5% in 2019, and Saudi officials acknowledge privately that the government’s image has been a factor in the drop in investment.

The death of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who was killed inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in 2018, led to international outrage over what the CIA and other western intelligence agencies concluded was an assassination ordered by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. Riyadh said Saudi agents had killed him in a botched extradition operation.

The G20 meeting had been intended as a showcase for a modernising and open Saudi Arabia as world leaders arrived in Riyadh, but will now be a virtual summit and may not last the two days allocated. It will also be one of the last international set-pieces for Donald Trump, a close ally of Prince Mohammed.

The Saudi government sent a message of congratulations to Joe Biden on Sunday. The US president-elect has promised to review US-Saudi relations, including Washington’s support for the Saudi intervention in Yemen. 

US dependence on Saudi oil has fallen markedly as a result of domestic shale gas production, but the kingdom’s political stability is still a key US concern.

“Our GDP is linked to the price of oil,” the ambassador said. “If oil prices were high we would be less inclined to embrace reform of our economy, [but] oil is on its way out either because it is finite, or due to climate change

“We are trying to develop economies that are not so reliant on oil. We have got to try because if Saudi Arabia collapses economically it collapses politically, and that is a bigger disaster than most people are aware of.”

Saudi ambitions for a debt package for low-income countries may be dashed by the virtual format and disagreements between G20 members, primarily China and the EU, over the length of the commitment.

The ambassador said: “We will sadly miss that opportunity for two leaders to pull each other aside and have a quick chat. It may make the communique a bit less specific than we would like. It may have to be more pre-agreed than normal.”

• This article was amended on 10 November 2020 because jailed female activists were incorrectly described as having been found guilty by the courts.





No.36 article:
Covid vaccine tracker: when will a coronavirus vaccine be ready?

Researchers around the world are racing to develop a vaccine against Covid-19, with more than 170 candidate vaccines now tracked by the World Health Organization (WHO).

Vaccines normally require years of testing and additional time to produce at scale, but scientists are hoping to develop a coronavirus vaccine within 12 to 18 months.

Vaccines mimic the virus – or part of the virus – they protect against, stimulating the immune system to develop antibodies. They must follow higher safety standards than other drugs because they are given to millions of healthy people.

In the pre-clinical stage of testing, researchers give the vaccine to animals to see if it triggers an immune response. 

In phase 1 of clinical testing, the vaccine is given to a small group of people to determine whether it is safe and to learn more about the immune response it provokes. 

In phase 2, the vaccine is given to hundreds of people so scientists can learn more about its safety and correct dosage. 

In phase 3, the vaccine is given to thousands of people to confirm its safety – including rare side effects – and effectiveness. These trials involve a control group which is given a placebo. 





No.37 article:
We’d like to hear from people in the UK about how they feel about the new Covid-19 vaccine

A Covid-19 vaccine may finally be on the horizon as results in large-scale trials show that the candidate developed by Pfizer and BioNTech is 90% effective, bringing a potential end to the pandemic into view.

The companies have reported no serious side-effects and so far there are no safety concerns around the vaccine.

We want to know how you feel about a vaccine possibly being made available. 

Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.38 article:
Dozens of people have died this year as Theta becomes 29th major storm

The annual record for the number of major storms forming in the Atlantic has been shattered, with Subtropical Storm Theta becoming the 29th named event in a hyperactive hurricane season.

The US National Hurricane Center said the development of Theta, currently churning through the heart of the Atlantic, had broken a record that stood since 2005, when there were 28 named storms. 

Yet another named storm could be in the works, with meteorologists tracking one through the Caribbean.

There have been so many big storms in 2020 that meteorologists exhausted their English-language list of names and had to turn to the Greek alphabet, rapidly burning through Alpha to Eta. In September, there were five storms lined up in the Atlantic at once.

“I think everyone feels surprised by the number of storms we’ve seen,” said Jill Trepanier, an extreme weather expert at Louisiana State University. “The sheer number has surpassed my expectations.”

Storms are named once they hit a wind speed of 39mph, with 12 of 2020’s named storms accelerating further to become hurricanes. A record 12 named storms and six hurricanes have crunched into the US so far this year, with some communities repeatedly besieged by strong winds and flooding.

Parts of southern Louisiana were devastated by Hurricane Laura in late August, which brought 150mph winds and severe flooding that claimed 42 lives, only to then be pummelled again by Hurricane Delta and Hurricane Zeta last month. 

The frequency of major storms making damaging landfall is the “big story for 2020” in terms of the hurricane season, said Phil Klotzbach, an atmospheric scientist at Colorado State University.

The hurricane season of 2020, which officially starts in June, has killed dozens of people and caused tens of billions of dollars in damage to homes, power lines and workplaces during a time of overlapping economic and social crises. 

Robert Bullard, an environmental policy expert at Texas Southern University, said: “It is the most vulnerable communities who will likely get hit the hardest, the same communities that are trying to recover from previous storms and ravages of Covid-19.”

The flurry of storms is well beyond the bounds of normal expectations, with an average of 11 named storms occurring each year from the 1980s to 2010. It is unclear whether the climate crisis is causing more frequent storms, although scientists are increasingly confident that the rising temperatures of the atmosphere and ocean are causing stronger hurricanes.

Hotter water provides more energy to hurricanes, while extra warmth in the air causes a build-up of moisture that can come down as flood-causing rainfall. The extra heat is helping spur the rapid intensification of storms, as witnessed during Laura, when wind speeds leapt from 65mph to 110mph within a single day. Incredibly, a few weeks later Hurricane Sally surged from 60mph to 100mph in just 12 hours before barrelling into Alabama’s coast.

“Rapid intensification seems to be the name of the game right now,” Trepanier said. “We should expect to see events intensify quickly when conditions are as warm as they are presently.”

Much like the high temperatures experienced by the Arctic or the enormous wildfires that have chewed through California this year, climate scientists warn there will be more and stronger hurricanes as the world heats up further. 

The science is “quite clear that we should expect more high intensity hurricanes and much more rain from them”, warned Kerry Emanuel, a professor of meteorology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.





No.39 article:
Vaccine taskforce chief may benefit from £49m UK investment

Exclusive: Kate Bingham could profit from a taxpayer-backed stake in her private equity firm

Kate Bingham, chair of the government’s vaccine taskforce, is facing questions over whether she will benefit from a $65m (£49m) UK taxpayer-backed investment into a fund run by her private equity firm.

Bingham, a venture capitalist married to Treasury minister Jesse Norman, has already come under fire over allegations she revealed sensitive information to a private investors’ conference and insisted on hiring costly PR advisers.

She is expected to leave her post at the end of the year, according to a government source who said her contract ran until January 2021 and she had always intended to leave at that point.

Bingham “stepped away” from her role at private equity firm SV Health Investors in May to take an unpaid post as chair of the vaccine taskforce, which aims to ensure the UK population has access to vaccines as soon as possible.

Two months later, SV Health Investors announced it had secured a $65m investment into its SV7 Impact Medicine Fund from British Patient Capital (BPC), which is entirely funded by the UK government.

Accounts filed with Companies House show SV Health Investors earned at least £1.9m in management fees linked to its operation of the Impact Medicine Fund in 2019, before the government invested earlier this year.

The accounts suggest Bingham, as one of the company’s two managing partners in the UK, receives an annual share of profits generated by SV Health Investors, suggesting she could stand to benefit personally from the performance of the fund.

Her appointment to the vaccine taskforce was cited in the press release announcing BPC’s investment.

“In May 2020, Kate Bingham, managing partner, SV Health Investors, was appointed chair of the UK’s vaccine taskforce. In her work for SV, Kate’s biotech investments have resulted in the launch of six drugs for the treatment of patients with inflammatory and autoimmune disease and cancer making her uniquely qualified for the role,” the press release said.

The shadow Cabinet Office minister, Rachel Reeves, said: “It is vital that the government immediately show how they have managed any real or perceived conflict of interest with this appointment. Especially when you consider how many nurses wages $65 million could have paid for.

“We need answers quick. Otherwise this appears to be another in a string of government appointments and contracts handed to friends without due process.”

Nick Dearden, director of campaign group Global Justice Now, said: “There’s absolutely a conflict of interest. It’s deeply inappropriate. If governments in less wealthy countries behaved like this, we’d be lecturing them on ‘good governance.’”

Asked whether the prime minister had full confidence in Bingham, a No 10 spokesman said: “Yes. The work of the vaccine task force is obviously of great importance and we have secured agreements for 350m doses overall of six leading vaccine candidates.”

Labour had asked cabinet secretary Simon Case to investigate claims that Bingham disclosed sensitive information about potential targets for the government’s vaccines push to a $200-a-head private conference.

According to a video of the event obtained by the Sunday Times, she showed financiers a detailed list of vaccines which the UK government was closely monitoring and could later invest in.

Bingham reportedly told the event: “We haven’t necessarily signed contracts with all of them so far. But they’re all in our sights.” Several of the vaccines are owned or funded by publicly traded companies.

Appearing before a joint select committee hearing last week, Bingham denied any wrongdoing and described the report as “nonsense”, “inaccurate” and “irresponsible”.

She insisted her presentation had relied “on publicly available information and said little that expert delegates at the conference could not deduce themselves”.

Bingham, who reports directly to the prime minister, has spent more than £500,000 of taxpayers’ money on hiring PR consultants from a firm called Admiral Associates, rather than rely on civil service press officers, according to leaked documents also obtained by the Sunday Times.

The government has repeatedly been accused of cronyism in its management of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Dido Harding, who was appointed to run the £12bn NHS Test and Trace programme without an open appointments process, is married to Conservative MP John Penrose. Harding is not taking a salary for her role, and an advertisement for her permanent replacement is expected to be placed shortly.

The Department for Business, which oversees BPC and the vaccine taskforce, said: “Kate Bingham stepped back from her full-time role at SV Health Investors when appointed as chair of the vaccine taskforce. She declared her interest in BPC’s investment in a fund run by SV Health Investors, and appropriate mitigations are in place.” A BEIS spokesperson previously said: “As we have already made clear, Kate Bingham’s role as chair of the vaccine taskforce includes appearing at conferences, speaking to media and liaising closely with wider stakeholders.”





No.40 article:
Kate Bingham: well-connected but under-fire UK vaccines chief

Supporters point to her deal over the Pfizer jab but there is unease over her PR bill and claims she shared information with investors

Given her background in the no-nonsense world of venture capitalism, few in the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy [Beis] were surprised at Kate Bingham’s ability to make enemies as well as friends.

In May, Boris Johnson appointed her as chair of the UK vaccine taskforce, the crucial body overseeing investment in coronavirus inoculations. Since then, she has infuriated colleagues by appearing to circumvent standard rules of propriety governing public appointees.

This has culminated with nine days of damaging headlines after it was reported in the Sunday Times that she had successfully argued for £670,000 of public relations support and has been forced to deny claims she shared commercially sensitive information with investors.

A Whitehall source said: “She is obviously very talented, she speaks her mind and gets straight to the point, but has frustrated a lot of people at the department.

“She is used to doing things quickly and without bureaucratic bullshit. But she also doesn’t tell people at all times what she is up to. It means that others are having to pick up the pieces behind her.”

It is unclear how Johnson came to appoint Bingham, because there was no formal process, but she is responsible for investing billions in taxpayers’ funds in Covid-19 vaccines that could offer a route out of repeated lockdowns.

Her supporters point out that she has 30 years’ experience in the pharmaceutical industry, knows her brief and was brought in to do a specific job. They say she will rightly be able to claim credit for signing a deal in the summer for 30m doses of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine that reports say can prevent more than 90% of people from developing Covid-19.

“If you think about the size of the task she took on, and her success so far, criticisms over PR contracts are a distraction,” said one senior MP.

For some within the department, Bingham appears to have been given free rein without the usual demands surrounding potential conflicts of interest because she was a Johnson appointee, and because her husband is Jesse Norman MP, the financial secretary to the Treasury.

Officials from the PCS union, which represents Beis staff, are planning to ask the department if the new permanent secretary, the former McKinsey consultant Sarah Munby, was involved in signing off the £670,000 PR contract with the Admiral Associates marketing agency.

The consultants have already cost £490,000, with the bill expected to reach £670,000 by the end of the year. The funding came from the Treasury’s allocation for the vaccine programme’s administration budget.

Bingham has brought some of the newly hired PR staff into Beis’ offices, at a time when Johnson’s key aide Dominic Cummings is cutting the number of press officers across Whitehall.

“It is insensitive – her PRs are being paid very well while civil servants are facing upheaval and may be forced to move on,” a source said.

The prime minister’s official spokesman said the decision to hire the PR advisers was signed off by Beis officials.

Bingham, 55, was also criticised following claims that she showed a detailed list of vaccines that the UK government is closely monitoring to a “premier webinar and networking event” for women in private equity hosted by a Massachusetts company. She denied any wrongdoing, telling a joint select committee last week that reports were “inaccurate” and “irresponsible”. Asked if she had disclosed information not in the public domain to the financiers, she told MPs: “No.”

The daughter of the late Lord Tom Bingham, the former lord chief justice once described as the greatest lawyer of his generation, she was educated at the independent St Paul’s girls’ school in west London with the prime minister’s sister, Rachel Johnson. Bingham later read biochemistry at Oxford, before moving on to Harvard business school.

She has worked at private equity firm SV Health Investors for nearly 30 years, where she is the managing partner. Her work has led to the launch of six drugs for the treatment of patients with inflammatory and autoimmune disease and cancer.

According to the government’s website, she temporarily stepped back from SV to work on the government’s vaccine plans.

Prior to joining SV, Bingham worked in business development for Vertex Pharmaceuticals, a US biotechnology company, and at Monitor, a strategy consulting firm.

She married Norman, who went to Eton, in 1992. They have three children.





No.41 article:
Early results from phase 3 trial look promising but there are still many questions to be answered

Pfizer and the German biotech company BioNTech said on Monday that they had had encouraging early results from a phase 3 clinical trial of their coronavirus vaccine. The trial is assessing how well the vaccine works in preventing humans from becoming infected. Although details are scant, the news is positive.

Pfizer and BioNTech say they looked at 94 cases of coronavirus that occurred among participants after they had received two shots of either the vaccine or the placebo, and found that the vaccine was more than 90% effective at seven days after the second dose. As the two doses are spaced by three weeks, the team behind the vaccine say their results suggest protection is achieved 28 days after the initiation of the vaccination.

They also found no signs of safety concerns, and stressed that the participants were from diverse backgrounds – an important consideration given that black and ethnic minority groups appear to be at greater risk from the virus.

Regulators have previously said they would give the green light to a vaccine that has at least a 50% effectiveness rate, a bar this vaccine looks on course to exceed.

The vaccine in question is based on genetic material called mRNA that enables the production of the “spike proteins” that sit on the outside of the coronavirus. The vaccine introduces this mRNA to the human body, triggering human cells to produce the spike protein. In response to these proteins, the body produces antibodies, and other immune pathways are activated, guarding against infection.

Most experts agree that the results are exciting and excellent news, but the optimism should come with a note of caution: the results are preliminary, have been shared only by press release, and the trials are not yet complete.

So far, 38,955 people have received two doses of the vaccine, and the team plan a further analysis of the results once a total of 164 confirmed Covid-19 cases have occurred among the participants. They will also follow participants for two years post-vaccination to explore long-term safety and whether it continues to provide protection.

There are certainly still many questions that need to be answered, including how long protection via the vaccine might last, whether it protects those who have previously had coronavirus, and whether it prevents people from catching the virus and passing it on or simply reduces the severity of symptoms.

There are also logistical challenges, not least as the vaccine needs to be stored at -80C, meaning that even in developed countries there could be difficulties in distributing the jab.

However, the results so far are very encouraging. What’s more, if successful, the vaccine would be the first licensed jab to be based on mRNA, a development that could fuel the emergence of new vaccines for other diseases. It would also set a record for the shortest time taken to develop an effective vaccine from scratch.

There is some way to go before the vaccine will be available, as it must be approved by licensing authorities. Pfizer has said it plans to apply to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency approval as soon as safety data allows, possibly as soon as the third week of November.

In the UK, Boris Johnson’s spokesman has said the UK has secured 40m doses of the vaccine, 10m of which are due to be available before the end of the year assuming no snags.

But the logistical requirements mentioned above, such as cold storage, mean there could be problems rolling out the vaccine in countries with poorer health infrastructure or where electricity supply is unreliable, or in some rural areas.

In addition, while demand has been anticipated, a huge level of production will be required, and then there is the matter of who gets the vaccine first and how mass vaccination would be rolled out.

There are more than 170 vaccines in development, 11 of which are in phase 3 efficacy trials – including an mRNA vaccine from the US company Moderna, and the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine. The latter uses a different strategy to the Pfizer/BioNTech approach, delivering the gene for the spike protein to human cells via a chimpanzee cold virus that has been changed so it cannot grow and cause an infection. The results from this vaccine trial are expected in a matter of weeks. 





No.42 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: plan to cut from 14 days came after argument between PM’s aide and England’s chief medical officer

The Covid self-isolation period is expected to be cut from two weeks to 10 days after a row involving Prof Chris Whitty and Dominic Cummings, who had been pushing for a more drastic change, the Guardian understands.

The reduced quarantine time is to be made possible by increasing the use of rapid tests – for which the UK government has paid more than £500m, despite the fact that some are not designed to test people without symptoms.

It comes amid growing concerns about compliance, with only 11% of people abiding fully by the current two-week self-isolation rule, according to research by King’s College London in September.

Under the new proposals, people are expected to be allowed to stop self-isolating on the 10th day after coming into contact with an infected person, following a negative test, in the hope this will improve compliance. But if they test positive on that date, they will be asked to continue self-isolating for a further eight days.

The planned change is a compromise hammered out at No 10 after Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, rejected proposals instigated by Cummings, the prime minister’s most senior aide, for a more dramatic cut in the quarantine period, according to a source with knowledge of the discussions. Downing Street did not deny the claims.

According to the source, Whitty discovered on Tuesday last week that a press release had been drafted to use the rapid tests to halve self-isolation to seven days, with the eventual goal of scrapping the self-isolation period entirely by offering tests to people as soon as they are notified of a contact with an infected person.

Whitty is said to have been implacably opposed on public health grounds, arguing that the incubation period for the virus was too long to allow immediate testing and the rapid tests would fail to detect every infected person.

The proposal to test after eight days, with permission to leave the house on the 10th day, was “cooked up” as a compromise, to placate Cummings, the source said.

Separately, experts have expressed surprise at the size of the contract of £500m awarded to Innova, a California-based company owned by an equity house that has bought rights to a lateral flow test made in China by Xiamen Biotime Biotechnology.

The tests are being supplied in the UK by a little-known micro-company, Disruptive Nanotechnology, which is based in a house in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire. It is understood that Disruptive Nanotechnology helped Innova navigate the bureaucratic formalities to get an assessment from Public Health England’s labs at Porton Down.

The UK’s three devolved governments in Edinburgh, Cardiff and Stormont are being consulted on the new proposal and their agreement will be needed before the policy can be implemented. They are understood to be seriously considering it to increase compliance but have concerns about the test’s accuracy.

Lateral flow tests can give results within half an hour but detailed data on accuracy for the Innova test from the Porton Down evaluation has not been disclosed. They identify a protein on the surface of the virus, called an antigen, but they work better when there is a lot of virus in the nose swab sample and can miss low viral loads.

As the Guardian reported last week, Innova’s product has not been designed for mass testing, and its leaflet is open in saying it is for people who have symptoms rather than those who are asymptomatic. The devices, which look like a pregnancy test, are intended to be read by a healthcare professional.

The tests could lead to an end to quarantine for travellers, according to the transport secretary, Grant Shapps.

He told the Airport Operators Association conference that the developments should encourage more people to fly. Shapps said: “I want you to know that we’ve been making very good progress on a test-to-release programme to launch once we’re out of lockdown. This will consist of a single test for arrivals into the UK, provided by the private sector and at the cost of the passenger, allowing a much reduced period of self isolation.”

The lateral flow tests, which have been trialled in Liverpool, gave “hope for optimism”, he added: “Ultimately, it could open the way for non-quarantined air travel.” 

There are also concerns that a self-isolation policy based on several different dates – involving testing after eight days, leaving self-isolation on the 10th day or accepting another eight days’ quarantine after a positive test - could be confusing for the public.

“Discussions are ongoing between the administrations about the self-isolation period. This is all based on evidence and data from Sage [the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies] whether or not reducing the self-isolation time from 14 days to, say, 10 days, whether that would allow greater compliance,” said one official.

Innova has been awarded two large contracts without tender, as is permitted in an emergency. The first was for £138m – said to be for 20m tests, nearly £7 each – and the second for £496m. The second contract lists extra justifications for the award.

The World Health Organization has recently approved two lateral flow tests, from SD Biosensor and Abbott. A global procurement process has secured 120m of the tests at $5 (£3.80) each, many of which will go to low-income countries. Germany, France and Switzerland are among the countries to have bought them. Because of this global buy-up, and also the purchase of 150m tests by the US, the contract says, there is high demand.

A No 10 spokesperson said: “Self-isolation is a vital tool in our fight to suppress the virus, so work is ongoing on options to increase the number of people doing so, including reviewing the self-isolation time period.”





No.43 article:
Tuesday briefing: Vaccine news moves the needle in Covid fight

First doses could be given in UK by Christmas … Trump sacks defence chief in legally questioned move … facial surgery brings trans women hope 

by  Warren Murray

Good morning, Warren Murray here to help you engage with Tuesday.

Britain could start distributing a coronavirus vaccine by Christmas, the deputy chief medical officer has said, after large-scale trials showed the Pfizer/BioNTech trial vaccine to be 90% effective. But Prof Jonathan Van-Tam warned no vaccine would come soon enough to stop significant restrictions on public life during the second wave.

Boris Johnson said that should the Pfizer vaccine pass all its safety checks, the UK had ordered 40 million doses, which would cover about a third of the population since each person needs two doses. It remains unclear if the vaccine prevents people catching the virus and passing it on, or rather prevents someone developing symptoms. Van-Tam said older people would be first in line with prioritisation decided by an independent committee.

Some of the youngest children have been going backwards in learning and life skills during the pandemic – forgetting their potty training, losing their grasp of basic numbers and no longer able to use a knife and fork, Ofsted has warned. Nearly one in five people who have had Covid-19 are diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety, depression or insomnia within three months of testing positive, according to a study of US patients that was run from the University of Oxford. Three survivors have told the Guardian’s science correspondent Nicola Davis how coming down with coronavirus affected their mental wellbeing.

Trump signals cabinet purge – Donald Trump has sacked his defence secretary, Mark Esper, for refusing to fall into line with the president and there is talk of a purge in the outgoing administration against officials who refuse to help undermine the legitimacy of the election result. The legality of Esper’s replacement is being questioned: Trump has drafted Christopher C Miller, director of the National Counterterrorism Center, into the job when Esper’s deputy should have taken over. William Barr, Trump’s attorney general, has authorised federal prosecutors to begin investigating “substantial allegations” of voter irregularities – a break with longstanding practice that comes amid a lack of evidence of any major fraud.

Lords rebuffs illegal bill – Boris Johnson has put himself on a collision course with the Joe Biden administration in the US after Downing Street said it would press ahead with legislation to override the Brexit deal on Northern Ireland. The House of Lords on Monday rejected measures that seek to “disapply” parts of the Northern Ireland protocol – which Biden has said would put the Good Friday agreement at risk. The government has said it intends to put the measures back in. The former prime minister Sir John Major has weighed in, saying Britain’s global reputation has been damaged and lawyers have been left “incredulous” by the government’s determination to override key elements of the Brexit deal.

Accord in Nagorno-Karabakh – Armenia’s prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan, has signed a “painful” deal with the leaders of Azerbaijan and Russia to end the military conflict over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region after more than a month of bloodshed. The declaration on Tuesday morning follows six weeks of heavy fighting in which Azerbaijan’s forces have retaken land lost in a conflict between the two countries in the 1990s, leaving hundreds dead and forcing thousands of ethnic Armenians to flee into Armenia. The region has been under the control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since 1994. Russia is to send in 1,960 peacekeepers under a five-year mandate as part of the peace deal.

Hope for Saudi political prisoners – Saudi Arabia is considering clemency for jailed female activists ahead of its virtual hosting of the G20 summit on 21-22 November, the Saudi ambassador to the UK has said. The summit has brought the kingdom under renewed pressure on, for instance, the fate of a group of women who were prominent in the campaign for the right to drive. One of the jailed women, Loujain al-Hathloul, has been on hunger strike since 26 October. Hathloul was arrested with nine other women’s rights advocates in May 2018, months before women were finally granted the right to drive. At least five of those arrested remain in jail.

Following the publication of the EHRC’s investigation into antisemitism in the Labour party its leader Keir Starmer called it a “day of shame”. Jessica Elgot reports on how the party is moving forward.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/09-70855-20201110tiflabour.mp3 

This is the story of a face, and how a trans woman found the surgery that could restore her long searched-for sense of self.

The Masters has suffered a high-profile Covid-19 withdrawal after Sergio García, the 2017 champion, returned a positive test. Augusta would usually be banking on a bonanza as the Masters rolls into town but the situation is anything but before the season’s now third and final major. In a further sign of changed days at Augusta National, Lee Elder, the first black man to play in the tournament, will take a role of honorary starter in 2021.

England’s Nations League match against Iceland next Wednesday could be played in Albania or Germany after the Football Association held emergency talks with the government to decide whether the game can go ahead at Wembley. The Georgia captain, Merab Sharikadze, has described Eddie Jones’s ploy of selecting nine forwards as “quite weird”. Wayne Pivac has admitted his Wales setup could be perceived as “a mess” after the sacking of the defence coach, Byron Hayward, less than a year into the job. And Premier League clubs are yet to schedule a third vote on whether to allow five substitutions during matches despite growing pressure to reconsider.

The installation of renewable electricity will hit a record level around the world this year, according to the International Energy Agency, as the coronavirus pandemic continues to reduce the amount of fossil fuels being used. Asian stock prices have been more subdued overnight despite the vaccine-inspired surge on Wall Street on Monday. After leaping 4.5% yesterday, the FTSE 100 is expected to shed 1% this morning. The pound is buying $1.318 and €1.114.

The full-page pictures of vials and syringes may be a _little_ unsettling but the story is a positive one. “A great day for humanity” says the Telegraph while the Mail calls it “One small jab for man” as if it is publishing in another era (and you actually need two jabs, which makes me think of John Prescott for some reason …)

The Guardian has “Virus breakthrough gives hope of vaccine programme by Christmas”. Our print edition front page also reports on the ground gained against Covid by the 17-day “firebreak” in Wales. The Mirror hails “Our little bottle of hope” – while the Express enthuses “Vaccine hope – life back to normal by spring” and the Times is in a similar vein (I thank you!): “Vaccine milestone heralds ‘normal life by next spring’”.

“A shot in the arm to beat Covid” – the Metro is usually more clever than that. The FT takes the angle you would expect: “Covid vaccine breakthrough brings” – hope of end to deadly pandemic? No – “boost to battered global markets”. While the Star leads on the somewhat peripheral detail that Pfizer also makes Viagra.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.44 article:
‘I began to lose hope’: the people living with post-Covid psychiatric disorders

Three survivors speak about their experiences as a study links coronavirus to mental health problems

A study from researchers at the University of Oxford and NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre found that nearly one in five people who have had Covid-19 were diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder – such as anxiety, depression or insomnia – within three months of testing positive for the virus. We speak to survivors about their experiences.

Before catching Covid, Eleanor had no diagnosed mental health conditions, although she suspects she had low-level anxiety. Post-Covid, the situation is very different: Eleanor is seeing a private therapist to help with post-traumatic stress disorder and anxiety.

Eleanor said the deterioration of her mental health was, at least in part, down to her workplace and GP not taking her symptoms seriously when she fell ill at the end of March.

“I was told by my line manager that it couldn’t be Covid-19 as I didn’t have a persistent cough for over an hour. As my symptoms worsened over two weeks, I was told by GP that it was likely anxiety and that my lethargy could be explained as many found it hard to motivate themselves at this time,” she said. She eventually got so sick that she coughed up the mucous lining from her lungs.

There was no initial access to testing, and by the time a test was available through her workplace, Eleanor was so unwell she could not attend. Barely able to stand, Eleanor spent some nights wondering if she would still be able to breathe the next day.

By week eight she was still experiencing a fever. Her GP said it now seemed likely that she had had Covid.

Eleanor said that while there were other stressors, including having to postpone her wedding by several months, she believes the reaction of others to her illness took a toll on her mental health. “I think I was just so distressed and upset at not being believed or taken seriously,” she said. 

Having fallen ill with suspected Covid in March, Sophie went on to develop panic attacks that lasted for entire days.

“Every day I was like: ‘I am going to be dead, I am going to be dead,’ even though I didn’t have it as bad as some people in the hospitals who were on ventilators and stuff,” said Sophie.

Sophie said she was still anxious and continued to take medication for her mental health, months after the virus passed.

“Everything seems to be just so built up in my head. Even just going to the shop is just stressful,” she said, adding that she had not had mental health problems before catching Covid.

While Sophie does not know why she has been left with anxiety, she said a number of factors could have contributed, from the lack of access to testing making it unclear whether she had Covid, to the constant stream of news about coronavirus and deaths.

“It could have been the feeling of just being breathless – you feel like you can’t breathe,” she said.

Jane had experienced depression before she caught the coronavirus, but after falling ill with Covid she experienced the worst episode for 15 years.

Jane’s main symptom, at least at first, was a nasty cough that lasted for three weeks. But after that passed, she was left with extreme fatigue, replacing hour-long walks with just 15 minutes’ exercise before needing to rest. The fatigue was accompanied by severe depression.

“I have had depression in the past, and quite seriously, but have been able to manage it with generally looking after myself and fresh air, good food [and so on],” she said. But this time it was different.

“I was beginning to make plans to kill myself, drawing up lists of who needed to be informed, what I needed to do,” said Jane.

Jane consulted a psychologist, who also recommended she talk to a doctor about her fatigue and physical illness.

The GP said “all the symptoms absolutely point to it having been Covid”, said Jane.

As for why Covid triggered the depression, Jane said she believes it was down to the virus itself, whether directly or indirectly.

“I was just so tired all the time,” she said, adding that it made it difficult to do daily tasks such as washing up. “Also I began to lose hope that I would resurface because I just felt so lousy. I felt that I had aged 10-15 years, and it was quite scary thinking: ‘Is this it, really? Will I ever bounce back from that?’”

The fatigue and depression lasted about four months and Jane said she felt more forgetful than in the past. “Now I am about 90% right, physically and mentally,” she said.

• In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.org or jo@samaritans.ie. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at www.befrienders.org.





No.45 article:
US data shows nearly twice as many diagnoses over three months among those testing positive 

Nearly one in five people who have had Covid-19 are diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety, depression or insomnia within three months of testing positive for the virus, according to a study that suggests action is needed to mitigate the mental health toll of the pandemic.

The analysis – conducted by researchers from the University of Oxford and NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre – also found that people with a pre-existing mental health diagnosis were 65% more likely to be diagnosed with Covid-19 than those without, even accounting for known risk factors such as age, sex, race, and underlying physical conditions.

“This finding was unexpected and needs investigation. In the meantime, having a psychiatric disorder should be added to the list of risk factors for Covid-19,” said Dr Max Taquet, an NIHR academic clinical fellow and one of the authors of the analysis.

The calculations were made on the basis of roughly 70m US health records, including more than 62,000 cases of Covid-19 that did not require a hospital stay or an emergency department visit. The incidence of any diagnosis of mental ill-health in the 14 to 90 days after a Covid-19 diagnosis was 18.1%, including 5.8% that were a first diagnosis.

In order to examine whether the excess risk was directly associated with Covid-19, the researchers compared data with six other conditions over the same period: influenza; other respiratory tract infections; a skin infection; gallstones; urinary tract stones; and the fracture of a large bone.

In the three months after Covid-19 diagnosis, 5.8% of patients had their first recorded diagnosis of psychiatric illness, compared with 2.5% to 3.4% of patients in the comparison cohorts – almost a doubling in risk, according to the paper published in the journal Lancet Psychiatry.

Paul Harrison, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Oxford, said more research was needed to establish whether a diagnosis of a psychiatric disorder could be directly linked to getting coronavirus. General factors that influence physical health were not captured in the records analysed, such as socio-economic background, smoking, or use of drugs. There was also potential that the general stressful environment of the pandemic is playing a role, he noted.

Research suggests that people from poorer socio-economic backgrounds are more likely to suffer mental ill-health. Poverty also increases exposure to coronavirus, owing to factors like crowded housing and unsafe working conditions.

“Equally, it’s not at all implausible that Covid-19 might have some direct effect on your brain and your mental health. But I think that, again, remains to be positively demonstrated,” said Harrison.

A particularly concerning finding was the doubling of the diagnosis of dementia – which is typically irreversible – three months after testing positive for Covid-19, versus the other health conditions.

It may be that coming to a hospital or to see your doctor to get diagnosed with Covid-19 allows for other pre-existing conditions – such as dementia – to be diagnosed, noted Harrison.

“Having said that … it’s not at all unlikely that there may also be a brain effect of the virus in certain people that is going to cause certain more neurological symptoms and difficulties,” he said. “So, we’re particularly careful in not over-interpreting that association.”

Studies researching the impact of the virus on the brain and the central nervous system are under way, including one by scientists in the UK who have formed a partnership to explore the neurological and neuropsychiatric complications of Covid-19. In July, neurologists published details of more than 40 UK Covid-19 patients whose complications ranged from brain inflammation and delirium to nerve damage and stroke.

Only time will tell whether the incidence of psychiatric illness post-Covid-19 continue to rise or persist beyond the three-month period, the researchers added.

“It’s difficult to judge the importance of these findings … it may be unsurprising that this happens a bit more often in people with Covid-19, who may understandably have been worried that they might become seriously unwell and who will also have had to endure a period of isolation,” said David Curtis, an honorary professor at University College London and Queen Mary University of London, who was not involved in the study.

“Overall, the results reported seem broadly plausible, but I’m not sure that they have specific implications for patients or health services.”





No.46 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Global stocks surge and experts optimistic as Covid vaccine exceeds expectations 

Hopes are soaring that a Covid vaccine is within reach, following news that an interim analysis has shown Pfizer/BioNTech’s candidate to have 90% efficacy in protecting people from transmission of the virus in global trials.

 The vaccine performed much better than most experts had hoped for, according to the companies’ analysis, and brings into view a potential end to a pandemic that has killed more than a million people, battered economies and upended daily life worldwide.

The data is from an interim analysis and the trial continues into December but the headline results were emphatic. Regulators will be looking to process an emergency licence application at record speed.

Global stocks surged to record highs on the news, while companies that have become synonymous with lockdowns in the west, including Zoom’s video conferencing and food delivery firms, saw falls in their value.

John Bell, Regius professor of medicine at Oxford University, who is involved with the Oxford vaccine, said that the Pfizer team had shown “an amazing level of efficacy” and it could mean a return to normality by spring (efficacy connotes performance of the vaccine under the orderly conditions of a trial, as distinct from use in everyday life). “I’m the first guy to say that but I will say it with some confidence,” he told the BBC.

Manufacturing is already under way. Pfizer said they expect to supply globally up to 50m vaccine doses in 2020 and up to 1.3bn doses in 2021. Countries will decide who they prioritise for vaccination. In the UK, the joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has recommended that – presuming the vaccines work well enough in elderly people – the first vaccines go to care home workers and residents, followed by anybody over 80 and other health and social care workers. After that, people are expected to get them in decreasing age order.

The news comes too late to help Donald Trump’s re-election campaign in the US, but the vice-president, Mike Pence, tried to claim their administration’s Operation Warp Speed programme had helped the vaccine’s development. Pfizer denied the suggestion.

“We were never part of the Warp Speed,” Kathrin Jansen, a senior vice-president and the head of vaccine research and development at Pfizer, said in an interview. “We have never taken any money from the US government, or from anyone.”

BioNTech, the small biotechnology company that is the originator of the vaccine, was founded by two married German scientists, Uğur Şahin and Özlem Türeci, both born to Turkish immigrant parents, and the Austrian oncologist Christopher Huber. It originally set out to develop new types of immunotherapy for cancer, but has concentrated its capacities on the race for a Covid-19 vaccine.

There are so far no safety concerns around the vaccine, with the two companies reporting no serious side-effects. The high percentage of those protected makes it especially compelling. Regulators have previously said they would approve a vaccine that has just a 50% efficacy rate – protecting half of those who get vaccinated. 

“Today is a great day for science and humanity. The first set of results from our phase 3 Covid-19 vaccine trial provides the initial evidence of our vaccine’s ability to prevent Covid-19,” said Dr Albert Bourla, the Pfizer chairman and chief executive.

“We are reaching this critical milestone in our vaccine development programme at a time when the world needs it most with infection rates setting new records, hospitals nearing over-capacity and economies struggling to reopen.”

Other scientists tried to marry caution with their obvious excitement at the early results, warning that the full data was not yet available and that the trial was continuing.

“In the absence of any data from Pfizer and BioNTech, we have to take these very exciting claims at face value,” said Dr Simon Clarke, an associate professor of cellular microbiology at the University of Reading. “It seems highly unlikely that a major pharmaceutical company would get such eagerly awaited news wrong.”

Prof Peter Horby of Oxford University, who runs the Recovery Covid drug trial, said it seemed like an important moment.

“This news made me smile from ear to ear,” he said. “It is a relief to see such positive results on this vaccine and bodes well for Covid-19 vaccines in general. Of course we need to see more detail and await the final results, and there is a long, long way to go before vaccines will start to make a real difference, but this feels to me like a watershed moment.”

As news of the breakthrough buoyed the scientific community, Brazil’s health regulator said it had suspended a clinical trial for China’s Sinovac coronavirus vaccine citing a severe adverse event. Trial organisers said there had been a death but it was unrelated to the vaccine.

The health regulator, Anvisa, said on Monday the “adverse event” took place on 29 October but did not specify if the incident took place in Brazil or in another country. It also did not give an indication of how long the suspension of the large late-stage trial might last.

Pfizer/BioNTech’s mRNA vaccine, which uses the genetic code rather than any part of the virus itself, has been one of the leaders in the global vaccine race. Interim results are also expected this month or in early December from trials for the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, which is based on a different technology.

The phase 3 trials have involved more than 43,000 people and are intended to establish whether the vaccine works. Volunteers are given either the Covid vaccine, which was administered in two shots about three weeks apart, or a placebo alternative such as the meningitis vaccine, and neither they nor their doctors know which they have had.

There have been concerns that black and minority ethnic populations are particularly vulnerable to Covid. Approximately 42% of global participants and 30% of US participants in the trials have racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds and appear to have been as well-protected as everyone else, the company says. But one important unanswered question is how long the vaccine will last.

The US and UK both welcomed the development but urged patience.

“I congratulate the brilliant women and men who helped produce this breakthrough and to give us so much cause for hope,” the US president-elect, Joe Biden, said. “It is also important to understand that the end of the battle against Covid-19 is still months away … a mask remains a more potent weapon against the virus than a vaccine. Today’s news does not change this urgent reality.”

The UK’s prime minister and deputy medical adviser warned that nobody should assume the pandemic was over and let down their guard. “We can’t let our enthusiasm run away with us,” said Boris Johnson, adding that the public must continue to observe the lockdown restrictions. Prof Jonathan Van-Tam said the results showed the vaccine prevented disease, but “we don’t know what this means yet for when we can get life back to normal … please don’t relax.”

Many countries already have orders for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The UK has bought 40m doses – enough for 20 million people because two doses are required. The EU has secured 200m doses, which it will distribute. The companies have a $1.95bn (£1.5bn) contract with the US government to deliver 100m vaccine doses beginning this year.

callout-coronavirus

Low-income countries could face problems, however, because the vaccine needs ultra-cold chain; it must be stored at -70C. The BioNTech chief executive, Uğur Şahin, has said his company is researching whether the vaccine might be able to survive for up to five days at a normal fridge temperature of 4C.

In Germany, the government is planning to set up vaccination centres equipped with ultra-low-temperature freezers for the first phase of vaccinations.

 • This article was amended on 18 November 2020 to clarify that results of vaccine trials at this stage refer to “efficacy” – the performance of an intervention under ideal and controlled circumstances – not “effectiveness”, which describes performance under real-world conditions.







