No.1 article:
Janet Yellen, Biden’s Expected Treasury Pick, Has Broken More Than Gender Barriers

The former Fed chair, a labor market expert, appears poised to become one of few people to ever have wielded economic power from the White House, the Federal Reserve and the president’s cabinet.

WASHINGTON — Janet L. Yellen became an economist at a time when few women entered the profession and fewer still rose in a male-dominated environment. She is now poised to become the first female Treasury secretary and one of few people to ever have wielded economic power from the White House, the Federal Reserve and the president’s cabinet.

Her expected nomination would come as rebuilding a U.S. economy battered by the coronavirus pandemic and saddled with high unemployment presents a central challenge for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s administration.

While Ms. Yellen is not the type of firebrand nominee some progressives might have hoped for — she has warned that the United States is borrowing too much money, a fact that some liberals count against her — she has paid consistent, careful attention to inequality and labor market outcomes, even when doing so earned her backlash from lawmakers.

As the chair of the Federal Reserve from 2014 to 2018, Ms. Yellen also oversaw an extremely slow set of interest rate increases as she and her colleagues tested whether unemployment could fall further without leading to higher prices. Her patience drew criticism from inflation-wary economists at the time, but the policies laid the groundwork for a strong labor market and a record-long expansion that drove unemployment to its lowest rate in 50 years before the pandemic turned the world upside down.

Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, one of the most prominent progressive Democrats in Congress, wrote on Twitter that Ms. Yellen “would be an outstanding choice for Treasury Secretary.”

But she faces a steep challenge: As Treasury secretary, Ms. Yellen will be at the forefront of navigating the economic fallout created by a pandemic that continues to inflict damage. While growth is recovering from earlier coronavirus-related lockdowns, infections are climbing and local governments are restricting activity again, most likely slowing that rebound.

Ms. Yellen has been a clear champion of continued government support for workers and businesses, publicly warning that a lack of aid to state and local governments could slow recovery, much as it did in the aftermath of the Great Recession, when Ms. Yellen was leading the Fed.

“While the pandemic is still seriously affecting the economy, we need to continue extraordinary fiscal support,” she said in a Bloomberg Television interview in October. She called fiscal support early in the crisis “extremely impressive” but noted that key provisions had lapsed.

Unlike the independent Fed, Ms. Yellen as Treasury secretary would find herself in a much more political role — one that is likely to require negotiating with a Republican-controlled Senate. With Mr. Biden expected to push for additional economic aid, Ms. Yellen would be central to brokering a stimulus deal in a politically divided Congress that has so far failed to agree on another round of aid.

Ms. Yellen declined to comment on her expected nomination, which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.

She would be the first woman to hold a job that has been dominated by white men — like Alexander Hamilton — throughout its 231-year history and would have held the government’s top three economic jobs, including leading the White House Council of Economic Advisers during the Clinton administration.

A former academic who taught at the University of California, Berkeley, Ms. Yellen was also the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, a Fed governor and the Fed vice chair before becoming the central bank’s first female chair.

Ms. Yellen said she wanted to be reappointed when her term as Fed chair ended in 2018, but President Trump, eager to install his own pick, decided against renominating her.

By replacing Ms. Yellen, Mr. Trump broke with precedent. The previous three Fed chairs had been reappointed by presidents of the opposite political party.

Instead, Mr. Trump chose Jerome H. Powell, the Fed’s current chair, with whom Ms. Yellen could soon be working closely as Treasury secretary. The two still talk, and Ms. Yellen has consistently praised Mr. Powell’s performance at the Fed, suggesting they would have a good relationship.

Born in Brooklyn in 1946, Ms. Yellen was raised in Bay Ridge, a middle-class neighborhood across the waterfront from Staten Island. Her mother was a teacher who stayed home to raise Ms. Yellen and her brother. Her father was a family doctor. She was both valedictorian and editor of the newspaper at her high school.

She attended Brown University and went on to receive a doctorate from Yale. In an interview in 2013 with Simon Bowmaker, an economics professor at New York University, Ms. Yellen explained her rationale for becoming an economist, saying she had always liked the rigor of math but economics offered something more.

“I care about people,” she said. “I discovered that economics was of enormous relevance to our lives and had the potential to make the world a better place.”

She met her husband, George A. Akerlof, an economist who is now a Nobel laureate, while working in a research position at the Fed in 1977.

Ms. Yellen has spent her post-Fed years at the Brookings Institution, occupying an office close to Ben S. Bernanke, who preceded her as Fed chair, and other former Fed officials. They call their corridor the “F.O.M.C., Former Open Market Committee,” a play on the central bank’s rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee.

Ms. Yellen is a Keynesian economist, which means she believes markets have imperfections and sometimes need to be rerouted or kick-started by government intervention.

As Fed chair, she gave important speeches — including one at the storied annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo. — advocating continued watchfulness and wariness when it came to financial overhauls instituted after the 2008 crisis. She has struck a concerned tone about regulatory rollbacks under the Trump administration.

“It is certainly appropriate to simplify regulations that impose unnecessary burdens, particularly on small community banks,” she said in 2019. “But I’m greatly concerned that the regulatory work needed to address financial stability risk has stalled. There have been some worrisome reversals.”

She is relatively moderate on many topics, including trade. Mr. Akerlof recalled in a biographical note in 2001 that when he met her: “Not only did our personalities mesh perfectly, but we have also always been in all but perfect agreement about macroeconomics. Our lone disagreement is that she is a bit more supportive of free trade than I.”

Ms. Yellen has been a major influence on leading officials at the Fed. John C. Williams, who worked for her in San Francisco, now leads the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mary C. Daly, who now leads the San Francisco Fed, cites Ms. Yellen as a key mentor.

That, along with Ms. Yellen’s experience working with Mr. Powell, could help facilitate the kind of close relationship needed between the Fed and Treasury, which are collaborating on a variety of crisis response programs.

Henry M. Paulson Jr., who served as Treasury secretary under President George W. Bush, praised the selection. He said Ms. Yellen “will have a tough job ahead of her, but she has the experience, talent, credibility and relationships with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to make a real difference.”

While the other leading contenders for the job also had extensive experience that spanned fiscal and monetary policy, Ms. Yellen was seen as well placed to make it through Senate confirmation, even if Republicans maintain control of the chamber.

Lael Brainard, another top candidate for the role, is the only remaining Fed governor from the Democratic Party on the seven-member board, which currently has two open slots. She might have been difficult to replace at the Fed: Nominees have been hard to confirm over the past decade, and the Senate may remain under Republican control.

While leading the Fed, Ms. Yellen at times had a testy relationship with congressional Republicans. In one instance, Representative Mick Mulvaney, then a South Carolina Republican, said Ms. Yellen was overstepping her boundaries by talking about inequality.

“You’re sticking your nose in places that you have no business to be,” Mr. Mulvaney said at a hearing in 2015.

But in many ways, those conflicts underline how much Washington has changed over the past five years. Fed officials now regularly talk about inequality, entirely unchallenged. The central bank has formalized policies much like Ms. Yellen’s patient approach to interest rate-setting as its official stance, which it explicitly hopes will foster more inclusive growth.

“It seems like a pretty subtle shift to most normal human beings,” Ms. Yellen said of that move. But “most of the Fed’s history has revolved around keeping inflation under control. This really does reflect a decisive recognition that we’re in a very different environment.”





No.2 article:
G.M. Drops Its Support for Trump Climate Rollbacks and Aligns With Biden

General Motors said it would no longer back President Trump’s effort to strip California of the power to set fuel economy standards.

WASHINGTON — General Motors turned its back Monday on the Trump administration’s legal fight to nullify California’s strict fuel economy rules, signaling that it was ready to work with President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. to reduce climate-warming emissions from cars and trucks.

The decision by Mary Barra, the General Motors chief executive, to withdraw her company’s support for Trump administration efforts to strip California of its ability to set its own fuel efficiency standards was a striking reversal. It was also a signal that corporate America is moving on from President Trump.

More specifically, it was a sign that Mr. Biden may find the auto industry amenable as he tries to reinstitute and rebuild Obama-era climate change regulations that Mr. Trump systematically dismantled, at times with the help of industry.

“President-elect Biden recently said, ‘I believe that we can own the 21st century car market again by moving to electric vehicles.’ We at General Motors couldn’t agree more,” Ms. Barra wrote in a letter Monday to leaders of some of the nation’s largest environmental groups.

She added, “we are immediately withdrawing from the pre-emption litigation and inviting other automakers to join us,” a signal to Toyota and Fiat-Chrysler, the other two major automakers that have sided with the Trump administration against California in the ongoing legal fight.

G.M.’s maneuvering was a public humiliation to Mr. Trump as he pursued his democracy-defying effort to subvert the will of the American electorate and claim another term. Ms. Barra gave no warning to the administration, but she did speak by telephone on Monday with Mary Nichols, California’s top climate regulator and an architect of the Obama-era fuel economy rules. Ms. Nichols is also a leading candidate to run the Environmental Protection Agency under Mr. Biden.  

“It’s always interesting to see the changing positions of U.S. corporations,” said a spokesman for the E.P.A., James Hewitt, when informed of Ms. Barra’s announcement.

There is little doubt Ms. Barra’s action was prompted by the outcome of the presidential election, according to two people familiar with her thinking who were not authorized to speak publicly. Even so, the way she did it took analysts aback.

“This is about as bold as it gets,” said Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan.  “This huge pivot, so closely following an election result, particularly from a firm like General Motors, is a big, big deal.”

He added: “This is the first big industrial step toward the next president. Are other industries going to have epiphanies and pivot?”

The sudden shift may help the Biden administration move quickly to reinstate tough rules on planet-warming auto pollution, this time with support from industry giants that fought such regulations for years.   

“There were many things where the wind was in the face of the Obama administration on climate, specifically, the automakers,” said John Morton, a former climate policy adviser to Mr. Obama who has spoken with members of Mr. Biden’s transition team.

“Biden will not be pushing against the industry the way Obama had to,” he said.

In fact, Mr. Biden said that he had spoken about policy issues in a meeting with Ms. Barra just last week. “G.M.’s choice to work with the Biden-Harris administration and California to advance these goals demonstrates a promising path forward for how industry, labor, government, and environmental organizations can come together to tackle big problems and make vital progress on behalf of the American people,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. “I applaud the steps that Mary Barra announced in her letter to environmental leaders today.”

For nearly four years, General Motors has pushed Mr. Trump to loosen Obama-era standards on fuel economy and climate-warming emissions. Ms. Barra met with Mr. Trump in his first weeks in office and urged him to weaken the stringent tailpipe pollution standards that would have been the United States’ most significant domestic policy to curb global warming.

Last year, the administration went even further, revoking the legal authority of California and other states to set tighter state restrictions. When the states sued, G.M., Toyota and Fiat Chrysler intervened on the side of the administration.

Ms. Barra’s letter stopped short of backing California’s standards but indicated that she was open to aligning her company with them, joining five other auto companies — Ford, Honda, BMW, Volkswagen and Volvo — that already have.

“We believe the ambitious electrification goals of the president-elect, California, and General Motors are aligned to address climate change by drastically reducing automobile emissions,” she wrote. “We are confident that the Biden administration, California, and the U.S. auto industry, which supports 10.3 million jobs, can collaboratively find the pathway that will deliver an all-electric future. To better foster the necessary dialogue, we are immediately withdrawing from the pre-emption litigation and inviting other automakers to join us.”

The president-elect has promised policies to make the United States electricity sector a net-zero producer of planet-warming pollutants by 2035 — and to reduce total American emissions to zero by 2050. To do that, virtually all cars and trucks would have to stop burning diesel and gasoline, and their electric batteries would have to be charged by renewable energy sources like the wind and the sun.

Environmentalists applauded the move by General Motors. “This is a victory for Americans from every corner of the country who all deserve cleaner cars and clean air,” said Wendy Wendlandt, acting president of Environment America. “We hope other automakers will follow the lead of G.M., Ford, BMW, Honda, Volkswagen, Volvo and others driving toward the right side of history when it comes to the clean car standards. It’s never too late to do the right thing.”

A spokesman for Toyota, Scott Vazin, wrote in an email, that “Given the changing circumstances, we are assessing the situation, but remain committed to our goal of a consistent, unitary set of fuel economy standards applicable in all 50 states.”

A spokesman for Fiat Chrysler did not respond to a request for comment. 

Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who was once a G.M. lobbyist, said, “General Motors did the right thing today by removing their name from this misguided lawsuit. It’s time for other automakers to do the same.” Ms. Dingell represents the auto manufacturing city of Dearborn, Mich., on the outskirts of Detroit, and for decades, she and her deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell, pushed back against tightening fuel economy standards. 

Since his first days in office, Mr. Trump proudly pushed his plan to roll back auto fuel economy standards as a signature economic move, one that he vowed would revive American auto manufacturing. The plan also ignited Mr. Trump’s fight with California, which has led the legal fight for states to enact their own fuel economy standards.

But in the end, Mr. Trump’s rollbacks exceeded even what automakers had asked for, prompting a rift within the industry. Some automakers sided with the White House, arguing that they needed a single national standard to give them market stability. Others sided with California, saying the state’s standards would drive the industry to a more innovative future and a global resurgence.  

Mr. Obama had seen the fuel economy rule as the centerpiece of his environmental legacy. Modeled after California’s state-level standard, it required automakers to build vehicles that achieve an average fuel economy of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, which would have  eliminated about six billion tons of planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution over the lifetime of the vehicles. Automakers at the time had complained about the stringency of the standard, but they had little choice but to comply after the government bailout of their industry following of the 2008 financial crisis.

Initially, automakers were eager to see Mr. Trump loosen that rule. But in private meetings, they also told him that they did not want to see him roll back the rule too far, fearing that California and other states would then sue to maintain separate, tighter state-level standards — an outcome that automakers saw as their worst nightmare.   

Disregarding the automakers, Mr. Trump rolled back Mr. Obama’s standards from 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 to 40 miles per gallon and revoked California’s legal authority to set its own standard. 

California, meantime, reached a separate deal with Honda, Ford, Volkswagen, BMW and Volvo under which they would be required to increase their average fuel economy to about 51 miles per gallon by 2026. 

The deal, brokered by Ms. Nichols, was reached in secret and enraged Mr. Trump when it was announced. In the months that followed, Mr. Trump amped up his attacks on California and its governor, Gavin Newsom, as his administration pursued a series of unusual, and sometimes punitive, policy actions against the state, in what was widely seen as retribution for the clean cars deal.   

That California compromise is now seen as the likely model for a new, Biden-era fuel economy rule.  





No.3 article:
Trump Administration Approves Start of Formal Transition to Biden

A key official designated President-elect Joe Biden as the apparent winner after Michigan certified his victory there and President Trump lost another court decision in Pennsylvania.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s government on Monday authorized President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. to begin a formal transition process after Michigan certified Mr. Biden as its winner, a strong sign that the president’s last-ditch bid to overturn the results of the election was coming to an end.

Mr. Trump did not concede, and vowed to persist with efforts to change the vote, which have so far proved fruitless. But the president said on Twitter on Monday night that he accepted the decision by Emily W. Murphy, the administrator of the General Services Administration, to allow a transition to proceed.

In his tweet, Mr. Trump said that he had told his officials to begin “initial protocols” involving the handoff to Mr. Biden “in the best interest of our country,” even though he had spent weeks trying to subvert a free and fair election with false claims of fraud. Hours later, he tried to play down the significance of Ms. Murphy’s action, tweeting that it was simply “preliminarily work with the Dems” that would not stop efforts to change the election results.

Still, Ms. Murphy’s designation of Mr. Biden as the apparent victor provides the incoming administration with federal funds and resources and clears the way for the president-elect’s advisers to coordinate with Trump administration officials.

The decision from Ms. Murphy came after several additional senior Republican lawmakers, as well as leading figures from business and world affairs, denounced the delay in allowing the peaceful transfer of power to begin, a holdup that Mr. Biden and his top aides said was threatening national security and the ability of the incoming administration to effectively plan for combating the coronavirus pandemic.

And it followed a key court decision in Pennsylvania, where the state’s Supreme Court on Monday ruled against the Trump campaign and the president’s Republican allies, stating that roughly 8,000 ballots with signature or date irregularities must be counted.

In Michigan, the statewide canvassing board, with two Republicans and two Democrats, voted 3 to 0 to approve the results, with one Republican abstaining. It officially delivered to Mr. Biden a key battleground that Mr. Trump had wrested away from Democrats four years ago, and rebuffed the president’s legal and political efforts to overturn the results.

By Monday evening, as Mr. Biden moved ahead with plans to fill out his cabinet, broad sectors of the nation had delivered a blunt message to a defeated president: His campaign to stay in the White House and subvert the election, unrealistic from the start, was nearing the end.

Ms. Murphy said she made her decision on Monday because of “recent developments involving legal challenges and certifications of election results,” most likely referring to the certification of votes by election officials in Michigan and a nearly unbroken string of court decisions that have rejected Mr. Trump’s challenges in several states.

In a statement, Yohannes Abraham, the executive director of Mr. Biden’s transition, said that Ms. Murphy’s decision was “a needed step to begin tackling the challenges facing our nation.”

He added that aides to Mr. Biden would soon begin meeting with Trump administration officials “to discuss the pandemic response, have a full accounting of our national security interests, and gain complete understanding of the Trump administration’s efforts to hollow out government agencies.”

Mr. Trump had been resisting any move toward a transition. But in conversations in recent days that intensified Monday morning, top aides — including Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff; Pat A. Cipollone, the White House counsel; and Jay Sekulow, the president’s personal lawyer — told the president the transition needed to begin. He did not need to say the word “concede,” they told him, according to multiple people briefed on the discussions. 

Mr. Trump continued to solicit opinions from associates, including Rudolph W. Giuliani, who told him there were still legal avenues to pursue, the people said.

Some of the advisers drafted a statement for the president to issue. In the end, Mr. Trump did not put one out, but aides said the tone was similar to his tweets in the evening, in which he appeared to take credit for Ms. Murphy’s decision to allow the transition to begin.

“Our case STRONGLY continues, we will keep up the good fight, and I believe we will prevail!” he wrote. “Nevertheless, in the best interest of our Country, I am recommending that Emily and her team do what needs to be done with regard to initial protocols, and have told my team to do the same.”

In a letter to Mr. Biden, which was first reported by CNN, Ms. Murphy rebutted Mr. Trump’s assertion that he had directed her to make the decision, saying that “I came to my decision independently, based on the law and available facts.” She said she was “never directly or indirectly pressured by any executive branch official — including those who work at the White House or the G.S.A.”

“I do not think that an agency charged with improving federal procurement and property management should place itself above the constitutionally-based election process,” she wrote, defending her delay by saying that she did not want to get ahead of the constitutional process of counting votes and picking a president.

Her letter appeared designed not to antagonize Mr. Trump and his supporters. In it, she did not describe Mr. Biden as the president-elect even as she said the transition could begin.

One associate with knowledge of Ms. Murphy’s thinking said that she always anticipated signing off on the transition but that she needed a defensible rationale to do so in the absence of a concession from Mr. Trump; the recent pro-Biden developments in Michigan and Pennsylvania, as well as Georgia, which certified Mr. Biden’s win there last Friday, provided a clear justification for moving ahead.

That decision was part of a cascade of events over the last several days that appeared to signal the end of Mr. Trump’s attempts to resist the will of the voters.

Large counties in Pennsylvania were formalizing Mr. Biden’s victory in the state. And in a major break with the president, General Motors announced it would no longer back the administration’s efforts to nullify California’s fuel economy rules.

On Capitol Hill, most of Mr. Trump’s Republican allies had stood by his side for the past two weeks as he tried to overturn Mr. Biden’s victory. But on Monday, some of the Senate’s most senior Republicans sharply urged Ms. Murphy to allow the transition to proceed.

Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, who is retiring, issued his second call in recent days for a prompt transition.

“Since it seems apparent that Joe Biden will be the president-elect, my hope is that President Trump will take pride in his considerable accomplishments, put the country first and have a prompt and orderly transition to help the new administration succeed,” said Mr. Alexander, a close friend of Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. “When you are in public life, people remember the last thing you do.”

Earlier in the day, Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, both Republicans, issued statements breaking from Mr. Trump and calling for Mr. Biden to begin receiving coronavirus and national security briefings.

“At some point, the 2020 election must end,” Ms. Capito said.

The pressure on Mr. Trump extended beyond the political sphere. More than 100 business leaders sent a letter to the administration on Monday asking it to facilitate a transition, and a group of Republican national security experts implored Republican members of Congress to demand that Mr. Trump concede.

One of the president’s staunchest supporters, Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the private equity firm Blackstone, did not sign the business leaders’ letter but said in a statement that “the outcome is very certain today and the country should move on.”

But the most dramatic evidence that Mr. Trump’s efforts to challenge the election were fading on Monday came in Michigan, where days of speculation about the certification of the state’s vote ended with the 3-0 vote by the canvassing board. It came after several hours of comments from local clerks, elected officials and the public, most of whom said that the board’s only legal role was to certify the results of the election, not to audit them.

As the meeting wore on, it became clear that one Republican member of the canvassing board, Aaron Van Langevelde, was leaning toward certifying. He asked multiple times if the board had the legal authority to do anything else.

“There is nothing in the law that gives me the authority to request an audit,” he said. “I think the law is on my side here. We have no authority to request an audit or delay or block the certification.”

The other Republican on the board, Norm Shinkle, abstained from the vote.

Jocelyn Benson, the Democratic secretary of state in Michigan, said in a statement that “democracy has prevailed” against “an unprecedented attack on its integrity.” She said the state would now begin procedures, including a risk-limiting audit, to further affirm the integrity of the election.

Another crucial swing state, Pennsylvania, was also moving toward cementing results on Monday, with multiple counties certifying the vote counts, despite some scattered efforts by local Republicans to halt the process. Mr. Biden won Pennsylvania by about 80,000 votes.

In Allegheny County, the state’s second-largest county and home to Pittsburgh, the county board voted 2 to 1 to certify the results. And in Philadelphia, the largest county, the city commissioners certified the results on Monday night after the state’s Supreme Court rejected a Republican request to disqualify the 8,000 absentee ballots.

Pennsylvania law dictates that counties must certify their votes by the third Monday after the election, but there is no real penalty for missing the deadline.

Statewide results will not be officially certified until all counties report, after which the process will move to Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar and then to Gov. Tom Wolf for the final signature and awarding of electors. Both officials are Democrats.

Despite the counties’ certifications on Monday, the Trump campaign filed an emergency appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, seeking to halt statewide certification.

Still, the Trump campaign’s legal challenges, led by Mr. Giuliani, have been so unsuccessful and widely mocked that the president acknowledged to advisers that the former New York City mayor’s appearances had become a debacle.

By late Monday, Mr. Biden’s team had already taken its first steps toward a more formal transition, moving its website, buildbackbetter.com, to its new home on government servers made possible by Ms. Murphy’s decision: Buildbackbetter.gov.





No.4 article:
Biden Will Nominate First Women to Lead Treasury and Intelligence, and First Latino to Run Homeland Security

John Kerry, the former secretary of state, will be the international climate czar, signaling the new administration’s commitment to fighting climate change.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. plans to name Janet L. Yellen as Treasury secretary, a nomination that would put a woman in charge of the Treasury for the first time in its 231-year history.

The expected appointment came as Mr. Biden moved to fill other top cabinet roles, selecting Alejandro Mayorkas as the first Latino to lead the Department of Homeland Security and Avril Haines as the first woman to be the director of national intelligence.

Mr. Biden is also expected to create a new post of international climate envoy and tap John Kerry, a former secretary of state who was a chief negotiator for the United States on the Paris climate change accord.

In choosing Ms. Yellen, who was also the first woman to lead the Federal Reserve, Mr. Biden is turning to a renowned labor economist at a moment of high unemployment, when millions of Americans remain out of work and the economy continues to struggle from the coronavirus.

Ms. Yellen, 74, is likely to bring a long-held preference for government help for households that are struggling economically. But she will be thrust into negotiating for more aid with what is expected to be a divided Congress, pushing her into a far more political role than the one she played at the independent central bank.

“While the pandemic is still seriously affecting the economy, we need to continue extraordinary fiscal support,” Ms. Yellen said in a Bloomberg Television interview in October. Her expected nomination was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.

The emerging diplomatic, intelligence and economic teams, as outlined by transition officials, reunite a group of former senior officials from the Obama administration. Most worked closely together at the State Department and the White House and in several cases have close ties to Mr. Biden dating back years. Mr. Biden will officially announce some of them at an event in Wilmington, Del., on Tuesday.

They share a belief in the core principles of the Democratic foreign policy establishment: international cooperation, strong U.S. alliances and leadership, but a wariness of foreign interventions after the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The transition office confirmed reports on Sunday night that Mr. Biden will nominate Antony J. Blinken to be secretary of state and Jake Sullivan as national security adviser.

Mr. Biden will also nominate Linda Thomas-Greenfield to be ambassador to the United Nations and restore the job to cabinet-level status, giving Ms. Thomas-Greenfield, who is African-American, a seat on his National Security Council.

The racial and gender mix of the expected nominees also reflects Mr. Biden’s stated commitment to diversity, which has lagged notoriously in the worlds of foreign policy and national security.

The slate of picks also showed Mr. Biden’s determination to push forward with setting up his administration despite President Trump’s continuing refusal to concede. Mr. Biden received help on that front Monday evening, when the head of the General Services Administration formally designated him the apparent winner, unlocking federal funds and resources to begin a transition and authorizing his advisers to begin coordinating with Trump administration officials.

Mr. Kerry’s job does not require Senate confirmation. A statement released by the transition office said Mr. Kerry “will fight climate change full time as special presidential envoy for climate and will sit on the National Security Council.”

To manage his domestic climate policies, Mr. Biden will also soon name a White House climate director, who will have equal standing with Mr. Kerry, according to transition officials.

If confirmed, Mr. Mayorkas, who served as deputy homeland security secretary from 2013 to 2016, would be the first Latino to run the department charged with putting in place and managing the nation’s immigration policies.

A Cuban-born immigrant whose family fled the Castro revolution, he is a former U.S. attorney in California and began President Barack Obama’s first term as director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. He will have to restore trust in the department after many key Democratic constituencies came to see it as the vessel for some of Mr. Trump’s most contentious policies, such as separating migrant children from their families and building a wall along the southern border.

Top immigration officials in the Obama administration recommended Mr. Mayorkas’s nomination as a way to build support with the immigrant community while satisfying moderates and career officials within the agency who are looking for a leader with a background in law enforcement.

Ms. Haines served as deputy director of the C.I.A. in the Obama administration before succeeding Mr. Blinken as Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser. She, too, is a former aide to Mr. Biden, serving as deputy chief counsel to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from 2007 to 2008 while Mr. Biden was chairman. Ms. Haines also served as counsel to Mr. Obama’s National Security Council, helping him navigate legal issues around counterterrorism operations and pressing for more restraint to reduce civilian casualties.

If confirmed, Ms. Haines will be the highest-ranking woman to serve in the intelligence community. The director of the C.I.A. — now led by its first female director, Gina Haspel — reports to the director of national intelligence.

Ms. Thomas-Greenfield is a 35-year Foreign Service veteran who has served in diplomatic posts around the world. She served from 2013 to 2017 as assistant secretary of state for African affairs. Just as important in the view of Biden officials is her time as a former director general and human resources director of the Foreign Service. They see it as positioning her to help restore morale at a State Department where many career officials felt ignored and even undermined during the Trump years.

Ms. Thomas-Greenfield, who recently recounted joining a “still very male and very pale” Foreign Service decades ago, has also served as the U.S. ambassador to Liberia and has been posted in Switzerland, Pakistan, Kenya, Gambia, Nigeria and Jamaica.

Perhaps the biggest surprise was Mr. Biden’s decision to bring back Mr. Kerry in a new role that would signal the administration’s commitment to fighting climate change. Mr. Kerry, 76, was a longtime Senate colleague and a friend who campaigned for Mr. Biden through some of his candidacy’s darkest days and, Democrats say, retains his voracious appetite for international affairs. Since serving as Mr. Obama’s second secretary of state from 2013 to 2017, Mr. Kerry elevated climate change to his signature issue and currently runs an organization dedicated to the topic. His will be a full-time position.

“We have no time to lose when it comes to our national security and foreign policy,” Mr. Biden said in a statement provided by his transition office. “I need a team ready on Day 1 to help me reclaim America’s seat at the head of the table, rally the world to meet the biggest challenges we face and advance our security, prosperity and values. This is the crux of that team.”

“These individuals are equally as experienced and crisis-tested as they are innovative and imaginative,” he added. “Their accomplishments in diplomacy are unmatched, but they also reflect the idea that we cannot meet the profound challenges of this new moment with old thinking and unchanged habits — or without diversity of background and perspective. It’s why I’ve selected them.”

In Mr. Blinken, 58, Mr. Biden chose a confidant of more than 20 years who served as his top aide on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee before joining his vice-presidential staff, where he served as Mr. Biden’s national security adviser before becoming principal deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama and then deputy secretary of state from 2015 to 2017.

Mr. Blinken is widely viewed as a pragmatic centrist on foreign policy who, like Mr. Biden, has supported past American interventions and believes the United States must play a central leadership role in the world. Mr. Biden most likely calculated that the soft-spoken Mr. Blinken, who is well regarded by many Republicans, will face a less difficult Senate confirmation fight than another top contender, the former national security adviser Susan E. Rice.

Mr. Blinken began his career at the State Department during the Clinton administration. 

Mr. Sullivan will take the White House’s top national security job and, at 44 when he takes office, will be the youngest person to hold that position after McGeorge Bundy, who took over the job at age 41 under President John F. Kennedy.

Mr. Sullivan followed Mr. Blinken as Mr. Biden’s top national security aide and was also a senior aide to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Along the way, Mr. Sullivan found admirers among conservative Republicans in Congress while playing a key role in the negotiations leading to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.

A Minnesota native, Mr. Sullivan in recent months has helped lead a project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace re-conceiving U.S. foreign policy around the needs of the American middle class.

Ms. Yellen’s path to the top job at Treasury may have been paved by the man who rejected her for a second stint as Fed chair: Mr. Trump.

Ms. Yellen wanted to be reappointed when her term at the head of the central bank ended in 2018, but Mr. Trump, eager to install his own pick, decided against renominating her. Instead, he chose Jerome H. Powell, the Fed’s current chair, breaking with precedent. The previous three Fed chairs had been reappointed by presidents of the opposite political party.

But it may have cleared the way for Ms. Yellen — who became an economist at a time when few women entered or rose in the male-dominated field — to break yet another public policy glass ceiling.





No.5 article:
Jake Scott, Super Bowl M.V.P. for the Dolphins, Dies at 75

A fearless defender, he had 35 interceptions in six seasons in Miami and was named to five consecutive Pro Bowls in the 1970s.

Jake Scott, the free-spirited, hard-nosed free safety who was a cornerstone of the Miami Dolphins dynasty in the 1970s and the Most Valuable Player in Super Bowl VII, which capped the league’s only undefeated season, died on Thursday in Atlanta. He was 75.

Scott fell down a flight of steps while visiting friends, had surgery to repair a spinal injury and died in the hospital 10 days later, according to his brother-in-law, Randy Fabal.

After two standout seasons at Georgia and a year with the B.C. Lions of the Canadian Football League — where he went after a falling-out with his college coach — Scott was drafted by the Dolphins in the seventh round in 1970. Coach Don Shula, who had taken over the hapless Dolphins that year, made Scott a starter and was instantly rewarded.

Scott, a wily and fearless defender, had a team-record 35 interceptions in his six seasons in Miami, where he was also a punt returner with a reputation for never calling for a fair catch. He was selected to five Pro Bowls from 1971 to 1975 and, with Dick Anderson, formed one of the best duos of safeties in league history.

Scott’s two interceptions in Super Bowl VII — including one in the end zone that he returned to midfield — helped keep the Washington Redskins offense from scoring. (Washington’s only points in the game, played in Los Angeles, came on a fumble return. Miami won, 14-7.)

“I think I’ll give Bill Kilmer an extra set of keys,” Scott said of the Redskins’ quarterback after Scott received a car for his M.V.P. performance.

In Super Bowl VIII against the Minnesota Vikings — which the Dolphins also won, 24-7 — Scott recovered two fumbles.

Scott was not a fan of authority figures, including the demanding Shula. On the Dolphins’ team bus ride to the stadium before Super Bowl VII, Shula, who had already lost two Super Bowls as a coach, told Scott to keep it down.

“What are you worried about, being the chokingest coach in the history of the Super Bowl?” Scott shot back, according to  the Dolphins tight end Jim Mandich.

Scott had taken a $5,000 pay cut to sign with the Dolphins, but made up for it when he floated the idea of leaving for the upstart World Football League, where his teammates Larry Csonka, Jim Kiick and Paul Warfield ended up. Not wanting to lose a top defender, the Dolphins gave Scott a five-year contract worth $600,000, the equivalent of more than $3 million today. (Kiick died in June at 73, just weeks after Shula did at 90.)

But after several run-ins with Shula, including a dispute over whether Scott could play injured, Scott was traded to Washington before the 1976 season and finished his career there in 1978 with 49 total interceptions. Scott and Shula did not speak for decades after the trade.

A lifelong bachelor, Scott shunned the spotlight, attended few alumni events and rarely spoke to the media. He invested his money in car dealerships, which he lost, but traveled widely, was an avid fisherman and split his time between homes in Colorado; Key West, Fla.; and the island of Kauai, in Hawaii.

“He’s the only man I’ve known who lived life entirely on his own terms,” said Stan Stanfill, a longtime friend and the son of Bill Stanfill, a teammate of Scott’s at Georgia and in Miami.

Jacob Eugene Scott III was born on July 20, 1945, in Greenwood, S.C., to Mary (Hughie) Scott, an educator, and Jacob Eugene Scott, a pulp wood contractor. When he was young, Scott moved to Athens, Ga., where his mother earned a doctorate in education at the University of Georgia. In Athens, Jake idolized Fran Tarkenton, a former local high school quarterback who went on to star at Georgia and in the National Football League.

In 1962, Scott’s family moved to the Washington area, where Scott played high school football and was a water boy for the Redskins. Tarkenton remembered Scott as a youth football player and helped recruit him to play for the University of Georgia, where Tarkenton had taken a course taught by Scott’s mother.

Scott is survived by his sister, Rita Scott Fabal.

Scott sat out his freshman year with injuries, then led Georgia in interceptions in both 1967 and 1968; in both seasons he was named a first-team all-S.E.C. defensive back. Though he played just two seasons for the Bulldogs, several of his records still stand.

He left the team after Coach Vince Dooley chose to take the team to the Sugar Bowl instead of the more prestigious Orange Bowl — a decision for which Scott never forgave him. He decided instead to play in Canada in what would have been his senior year.

Dooley, though, admired Scott’s talents and lobbied successfully for his induction into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2011. Scott, who was in Hawaii, did not show up for the induction ceremony. In 2006, he also turned down an invitation from the N.F.L. to attend Super Bowl XL, where former M.V.P.s were being honored.

“I don’t need the money,” Scott told the South Florida newspaper The Sun-Sentinel that year. “I don’t need it for my ego.”

A decade later, he attended Super Bowl 50 and joined his old roommate, Bill Stanfill, at a Dolphins Honor Roll induction ceremony. Shula was on hand to congratulate them.





No.6 article:
Daniel Cordier, French Resistance Hero, Is Dead at 100

He parachuted into occupied France and became an assistant to the legendary Jean Moulin, though only later did he learn Moulin’s true identity.

Daniel Cordier, one of the last surviving operatives of the wartime French Resistance, who parachuted into his country from exile to run networks of agents and maintain covert radio communications in a cat-and-mouse duel with Hitler’s Gestapo, died on Friday in Cannes, France. He was 100. 

His death was confirmed by the Ministry of Armed Forces and President Emmanuel Macron, who said in a statement: “When France was in peril, he and his fellow fighters took all the risks so that France stayed true to itself. We owe them our freedom and our honor.”

After the war, Mr. Cordier sought to distance himself from his activities in occupied France and became a successful modern art collector and Parisian dealer. But, inexorably, the war years drew him back, this time as a historian to defend the record of Jean Moulin, Charles de Gaulle’s most senior representative in occupied France and organizer of the French Resistance. Mr. Cordier was a personal assistant to Moulin in 1942 and 1943.

The Nazi occupation left deep scars in the French psyche, fusing the humiliation of military defeat and the shame of collaboration with the heroic myths and chronicles of the Resistance. In 1944, Mr. Cordier was honored in France as a companion of the liberation, a title awarded to about 1,000 Resistance figures, and on June 18, 2018, President Emmanuel Macron elevated him to the highest level of the Légion d’Honneur.

The ceremony marked the 78th anniversary of a celebrated appeal by de Gaulle, the Free French leader, issued from London, to resist the Nazi occupation despite the armistice sought by Marshal Philippe Pétain, who had become the head of state of what was known as Vichy France.

Mr. Cordier’s credentials had not always been so illustrious. In his early years he had been under the influence of a stepfather who inculcated in him extreme right-wing, monarchist and anti-Semitic views. Observing the Nazi occupation changed his mind, he said.

Following the fall of Paris in June 1940, Mr. Cordier’s patriotism led him to flee France to join the Gaullist Free French movement in London. After military training, he was sent back to France in 1942 as an undercover operative in Lyon and Paris.

Mr. Cordier traveled from Lyon pretending to be a journalist, he wrote in a memoir published in 2009. His mission was to prepare for the arrival of his boss, code-named “Rex,” and for a secret meeting that was supposed to forge a united front among Resistance groups.

He had been shocked to see German soldiers photographing one another at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. But as he headed toward a covert encounter with a fellow operative at a cafe on the Champs Élysées, he was even more stunned to see an old Jewish man and a child with yellow stars on their overcoats.

“The shock of this vision plunges me into an unbearable shame,” he wrote in the memoir, “Alias Caracalla.”

At first he wanted to rush up to the people he saw and embrace them to seek forgiveness, he wrote. At that moment, though, he recognized, walking toward him, the operative he was scheduled to meet. It was an epiphany: “His presence leads me back to reality: I am not in Paris to care for my conscience.”

“For sure,” Mr. Cordier wrote, “the Resistance is not a propitious place for the culture of remorse.” 

Daniel Bouyjou-Cordier was born on Aug. 10, 1920, into a wealthy middle-class family in Bordeaux. His mother, Jeanne Gauthier, divorced his father when he was 4 years old and married Charles Cordier, a local industrialist.

Daniel was educated at an all-boys Catholic boarding school in Arcachon, near Bordeaux, where he was awakened to his sexual attraction to his fellow pupils, as he recalled in a 2014 memoir, “Les Feux de Saint-Elme.” He came out as gay in 2009.

“Even if I have never hidden from it, I have never spoken about it,” he said in an interview with the newspaper Le Monde, “because these are difficult things to write about, especially for a man of my generation.”

As a teenager Mr. Cordier became an organizer for Action Française, an extreme right-wing and monarchist group inspired by Charles Maurras (1868-1952), a writer and politician who opposed republican government. Mr. Cordier became a secret admirer of Europe’s fascist leaders and yet nurtured an equally unspoken passion for the works of the hedonistic avant-garde writer André Gide.

As the scion of a wealthy family, Mr. Cordier divided his time between summer vacations in the Atlantic resort of Biarritz and winters skiing — a lifestyle that came to an abrupt end on Sept. 3, 1939, with the declaration of war by France and Britain. The following June, German troops overran Paris; Pétain called for an armistice and established the collaborationist Vichy government in southern France; and de Gaulle urged his followers to keep up the fight.

With German troops advancing south, Mr. Cordier and a group of other young Frenchmen in the port of Bayonne boarded the Leopold II, a Belgian freighter whose captain agreed to take them in the hold of his vessel in return for a payment from Mr. Cordier’s stepfather. The ship was supposed to steam to North Africa, but it changed course at sea and docked in Cornwall, at the southwestern tip of England.

In London, Mr. Cordier and other fugitives were received by de Gaulle. “I will not congratulate you for coming here: you did your duty,” he told them, according to Mr. Cordier’s memoirs. “When France is in agony, her children are duty bound to save her.”

Mr. Cordier returned to France in July 1942 as a covert operative, part of the so-called Central Bureau of Intelligence and Operations, known by its initials in French as the B.C.R.A. The bureau acted with British support as the main channel between de Gaulle’s Free French and individual Resistance groups.

Armed with a revolver and a knife, and carrying documents for “Rex” in Lyon, Mr. Cordier parachuted from a British airplane flying low over the French countryside and landed in a clump of gorse.

He was not aware that Rex was the debonair Moulin, effectively de Gaulle’s viceroy in occupied France. (He would not learn of his true identity until much later.) Receiving the papers, Moulin asked him, “How was your journey?” and asked him to dinner. Moulin then recruited him to be his personal assistant.

At the time, the ranking Gestapo official in Lyon was Klaus Barbie, known as the Butcher of Lyon, whose brutal campaign against the Resistance only underlined the perils facing Moulin and Mr. Cordier. (Barbie, who was held responsible for the deaths and deportations of thousands of people during the Holocaust, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a French court in 1987 on charges of crimes against humanity and died in prison in 1991.)

Moulin’s principal mission was to unite wary Resistance groups. But in June 1943, he was arrested by the Gestapo at a meeting with other underground leaders, having been betrayed most likely by a traitorous member of the Resistance. He died after weeks of torture by Barbie himself.

Mr. Cordier remained in France as an underground operative until March 1944, when he fled across the Pyrenees to Spain. There he was interned briefly by the Franco regime before traveling on to London. He returned to Paris in October 1944, after the city’s liberation.

His relationship with the man he knew as Rex seems to have been complex, built partly on hero worship — Moulin was two decades older than Mr. Cordier — and partly on a fierce loyalty reinforced by the continuing mystique of Moulin’s anonymity. Though Moulin, a connoisseur of modern art, was a product of the French Left, Mr. Cordier became his disciple.

During their time together, Moulin and Mr. Cordier adopted a cover story that they were art dealers.

“Cordier became Moulin’s gallery assistant, and his education in art — which was vital for his own cover to stand up to scrutiny if he was ever questioned — had begun,” according to Sotheby’s, the auction house, which in 2018 held a sale of works collected by Mr. Cordier.

Mr. Cordier recalled in an interview with Le Monde in 2018 that “the disappearance of my boss, Jean Moulin” had made it “painful to live with this memory, really too painful,” and for that reason he had resolved after World War II to “efface” those chapters of his life.

Moulin had taught him a lot about modern art, and Mr. Cordier became a collector and gallerist until the late 1970s. But his years in the Resistance returned to haunt him when Henri Frenay, a fellow operative, suggested in a 1970s memoir that Moulin had been a Soviet spy.

“That was quite simply a lie,” Mr. Cordier told Le Monde.

He embarked on a remarkably detailed biography of Moulin that appeared in three volumes of about 1,000 pages each from 1989 to 1993 and concluded with a fourth volume of roughly the same length in 1999.

Only after the liberation of France did Mr. Cordier discover who Rex had been. It was a bitter moment. He had always believed Rex would turn out to be “from the highest levels of politics, or diplomacy, or painting,” he wrote in 2009. Instead, he discovered that Moulin had been an “unknown” provincial administrator.

“I had always thought that the revelation of Rex’s name alone would justify the secret cult that I had built around his memory,” he wrote. But “because he was a nobody, I worked to keep our relationship a secret” until Mr. Frenay’s accusations “obliged me to reveal the truth of those long-ago days.”

In the interview with Le Monde, Mr. Cordier was asked why Moulin had made such a deep impression.

“Perhaps I can reply like this,” he said. “He made an impression on me because he chose me.”





No.7 article:
Israeli Reports Say Netanyahu Met Saudi Crown Prince. Saudis Deny It.

Clashing reports about the meeting, which would be the first between high-level Israeli and Saudi leaders, show how far apart the two countries remain.

BEIRUT, Lebanon — A covert meeting between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia would be a historic first, suggesting that the two countries were making progress toward establishing formal diplomatic relations.

But the contradictory news on Monday about such a meeting — with unsourced Israeli media reports saying it had taken place clashing with a denial from the Saudi foreign minister — highlighted the domestic politics in each country and signaled how far apart the two countries remained from the prospect of exchanging ambassadors.

Israeli news outlets reported early Monday that Mr. Netanyahu and the head of Israel’s Mossad spy agency, Yossi Cohen, had flown to Saudi Arabia on a private jet on Sunday evening. In a meeting with Prince Mohammed in Neom, a futuristic city planned near the Red Sea coast, the three men discussed Iran, which both countries consider a threat, and the possible normalization of relations, the Israeli reports said.

Mr. Netanyahu refused to comment, but Israeli journalists close to him were among the first to report the story. Flight tracking websites documented the jet’s trip from Tel Aviv to Saudi Arabia, and three officials close to Mr. Netanyahu alluded to the meeting’s significance, appearing to confirm that it happened.

“The fact that the meeting took place and was made public — even if it was in only a semiofficial way — is something of great importance,” Yoav Galant, the education minister, said in a radio interview. “This is something our ancestors dreamed about.”

But hours after the news echoed around the world, the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Faisal bin Farhan, denied that any meeting with Mr. Netanyahu had taken place, insisting that Prince Mohammed had met only with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who was completing a seven-nation farewell tour.

“There was no meeting,” Prince Faisal wrote in a text message. He said that he had accompanied Mr. Pompeo throughout his visit and that “Saudi and American officials were the only ones present.”

The conflicting statements reflected different priorities: Israel and the Trump administration have promoted the idea that a diplomatic opening between Saudi Arabia and Israel is only a matter of time, while the Saudis have insisted that an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal must come first.

Mr. Netanyahu, who has often been accused of leaking reports for political gain, had ample reason to trumpet any incremental steps in building relations with Saudi Arabia. He is eager to improve his standing at home as a leader who can turn Israel’s foes into friends and to divert attention from corruption allegations.

The calculation is different for Prince Mohammed, who has told American visitors that he does not consider Israel an enemy but that opening official relations too quickly could inspire extremists and be used against him in a region where Israel remains unpopular.

Reports of the visit followed agreements by the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan to establish formal relations with Israel, moves that the Trump administration pushed to crack a boycott of Israel by most Arab states in solidarity with the Palestinians.

Monday’s kerfuffle recalled a similar mix-up in June, when Mr. Netanyahu announced a new partnership with the Emirates to fight the coronavirus, touting it as a major breakthrough in relations, which the Emirates then denied. Analysts said that Mr. Netanyahu’s public touting of the deal was premature, and forced the Emirates to back off.

Despite the momentary humiliation, the episode did not seem to hurt Mr. Netanyahu or damage diplomacy between the two countries. Less than two months later, they established full diplomatic relations.

A similar agreement between Saudi Arabia and Israel would be much more significant because of the kingdom’s size, wealth and standing in the Muslim world as the protector of the Islamic holy sites. But there was no indication that such a move was imminent.

Israel and Saudi Arabia have never had formal diplomatic relations, and Prince Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, said as recently as Saturday that the kingdom had long supported normalization but only after an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal. The Saudis’ Arab Peace Initiative in 2002 offered Israel full normalization with the Arab world after the Palestinians achieved statehood.

But the kingdom’s tone when speaking about Israel has shifted in recent years, and rapidly in recent months.

Prince Mohammed, 35, a son of the Saudi monarch and the kingdom’s de facto ruler, has said that both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to their land and that Israel has overlapping economic and security interests with Arab states, specifically over their shared animosity toward Iran.

The Saudi news media has begun publishing articles about Israeli culture and politics, and last month a Saudi satellite channel aired extensive interviews with Prince Bandar bin Sultan, a former intelligence chief and ambassador to Washington, who harshly criticized the Palestinian leadership.

Saudi Arabia played a quiet but instrumental role in aiding the Trump administration’s effort to broker the diplomatic openings between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan, according to a senior Israeli official. Last month, Saudi Arabia opened its airspace to commercial flights to and from Israel, saying it had done so at the request of the Emirates. Most Arab states block such overflights as part of their boycott of the Jewish state.

The lack of significant protests in the Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan after their agreements with Israel could also help clear the way for Saudi Arabia to follow suit, the Israeli official said.

Pushing ahead with normalization in the waning days of the Trump administration would not necessarily create problems for the incoming Biden administration.

Although President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. took a tough line on Saudi Arabia during the campaign, vowing to end American support for the Saudi military in Yemen and to treat the Saudis like “the pariah that they are,” analysts say he is likely to welcome further Saudi-Israeli rapprochement. It remains unclear whether his administration will push for it in the same way President Trump has or seek to use the possibility as leverage in efforts to restart Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.

Opening diplomatic ties with Israel could help Prince Mohammed rehabilitate his reputation in Washington, dampening criticisms of the Saudi war in Yemen, crackdowns on activists and the killing of the dissident Saudi writer Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents in Istanbul in 2018.

For Mr. Netanyahu, headlines about a possible diplomatic breakthrough, breathlessly covered by the Israeli media, provided a welcome distraction from an unwelcome story: the formation by Defense Minister Benny Gantz, a Netanyahu rival, of a government commission to investigate Mr. Netanyahu’s multibillion-dollar purchase of submarines and missile boats, an episode often described as the worst corruption scandal in Israel’s history.

Responding to reports of the Saudi meeting, Mr. Gantz assailed what he called “the leak of the prime minister’s secret flight to Saudi Arabia” as “an irresponsible move.”

A Netanyahu adviser, Topaz Luk, countered “Gantz plays politics while the prime minister makes peace.”

Reports of Mr. Netanyahu’s visit to Neom followed the end of the virtual Group of 20 summit meeting hosted by Saudi Arabia over the weekend and coincided with Mr. Pompeo’s arrival for a meeting with Prince Mohammed on Sunday night.

A State Department statement about the visit did not mention Mr. Netanyahu.

Air-traffic monitoring websites showed a flight leaving Tel Aviv on Sunday around 7:30 p.m. that dropped off the radar near Neom about an hour later. The same plane reappeared and flew back to Tel Aviv after midnight.

Avi Scharf, editor of the English-language edition of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, posted a map of the first flight on Twitter on Monday.

“ABSOLUTELY rare Israeli flight direct to new Saudi megacity Neom on Red Sea shore,” Mr. Scharf wrote, noting that the jet used was one that Mr. Netanyahu had used before.





No.8 article:
Can an Algorithm Prevent Suicide?

The Department of Veterans Affairs has turned to machine-learning to help identify vets at risk of taking their own lives.

At a recent visit to the Veterans Affairs clinic in the Bronx, Barry, a decorated Vietnam veteran, learned that he belonged to a very exclusive club. According to a new A.I.-assisted algorithm, he was one of several hundred V.A. patients nationwide, of six million total, deemed at imminent risk of suicide.

The news did not take him entirely off guard. Barry, 69, who was badly wounded in the 1968 Tet offensive, had already made two previous attempts on his life. “I don’t like this idea of a list, to tell you the truth — a computer telling me something like this,” Barry, a retired postal worker, said in a phone interview. He asked that his surname be omitted for privacy.

“But I thought about it,” Barry said. “I decided, you know, OK — if it’s going to get me more support that I need, then I’m OK with it.”

For more than a decade, health officials have watched in vain as suicide rates climbed steadily — by 30 percent nationally since 2000 — and rates in the V.A. system have been higher than in the general population. The trends have defied easy explanation and driven investment in blind analysis: machine learning, or A.I.-assisted algorithms that search medical and other records for patterns historically associated with suicides or attempts in large clinical populations.

Doctors have traditionally gauged patients’ risks by looking at past mental health diagnoses and incidents of substance abuse, and by drawing on experience and medical instinct. But these evaluations fall well short of predictive, and the artificially intelligent programs explore many more factors, like employment and marital status, physical ailments, prescription history and hospital visits. These algorithms are black boxes: They flag a person as at high risk of suicide, without providing any rationale.

But human intelligence isn’t necessarily better at the task. “The fact is, we can’t rely on trained medical experts to identify people who are truly at high risk,” said Dr. Marianne S. Goodman, a psychiatrist at the Veterans Integrated Service Network in the Bronx, and a clinical professor of medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. “We’re no good at it.”

Deploying A.I. in this way is not new; researchers have been gathering data on suicides through the National Health Service in Britain since 1996. The U.S. Army, Kaiser Permanente and Massachusetts General Hospital each has separately developed a algorithm intended to predict suicide risk. But the V.A.’s program, called Reach Vet, which identified Barry as at high risk, is the first of the new U.S. systems to be used in daily clinical practice, and it is being watched closely. How these systems perform — whether they save lives and at what cost, socially and financially — will help determine if digital medicine can deliver on its promise.

“It is a critical test for these big-data systems,” said Alex John London, the director of the Center for Ethics and Policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. “If these things have a high rate of false positives, for instance, that marks a lot people at high risk who are not — and the stigma associated with that could be harmful indeed downstream. We need to be sure these risk flags lead to people getting better or more help, not somehow being punished.”

The V.A.’s algorithm updates continually, generating a new list of high-risk veterans each month. Some names stay on the list for months, others fall off. When a person is flagged, his or her name shows up on the computer dashboard of the local clinic’s Reach Vet coordinator, who calls to arrange an appointment. The veteran’s doctor explains what the high-risk designation means — it is a warning sign, not a prognosis — and makes sure the person has a suicide safety plan: that any guns and ammunition are stored separately; that photos of loved ones are visible; and that phone numbers of friends, social workers and suicide hotlines are on hand.

Doctors who have worked with Reach Vet say that the system produces unexpected results, both in whom it flags and whom it does not.

To some of his therapists, Chris, 36, who deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, looked very much like someone who should be on the radar. He had been a Marine rifleman and saw combat in three of his four tours, taking and returning heavy fire in multiple skirmishes. In 2008, a roadside bomb injured several of his friends but left him unscathed. After the attack he had persistent nightmares about it and received a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress. In 2016, he had a suicidal episode; he asked that his last name be omitted to protect his privacy.

“I remember going to the shower, coming out and grabbing my gun,” he said in an interview at his home near New York City. “I had a Glock 9-millimeter. For me, I love guns, they’re like a safety blanket. Next thing I know, I’m waking up in cold water, sitting in the tub, the gun is sitting right there, out of the holster. I blacked out. I mean, I have no idea what happened. There were no bullets in the gun, it turned out.”

The strongest risk factor for suicide is a previous attempt, especially one with a gun. Yet Chris’s name has not turned up on the high-risk list compiled by A.I., and he does not think it ever will.

“At the time, in 2016, I was going to school for a master’s, working full time,” he said. “Our two kids were toddlers; I was sleeping no more than a few hours a night, if that. It was too much. I was sleep-deprived all the time. I had never been suicidal, never had suicidal thoughts; it was a totally impulsive thing.”

The A.I. behind Reach Vet seems to home in on other risk factors, Dr. Goodman said: “The things this program picks up wouldn’t necessarily be the ones I thought about. The analytics are beginning to change our understanding of who’s at greatest risk.”

The algorithm is built on an analysis of thousands of previous suicides in the V.A.’s database, dating to 2008. The computer mixes and shuffles scores of facts from the medical records — age, marital status, diagnoses, prescriptions — and settles on the factors that together are most strongly associated with suicide risk. The V.A. model integrates 61 factors in all, including some that are not obvious, like arthritis and statin use, and produces a composite score for each person. Those who score at the very top of the range — the top 0.1 percentage — are flagged as high risk.

“The risk concentration for people in the top 0.1 percent on this score was about 40 times,” said John McCarthy, the director of data and surveillance, in Suicide Prevention in the VA Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention. “That is, they were 40 times more likely to die of suicide” than the average person.

Bridget Matarazzo, the director of clinical services at the Rocky Mountain Mental Illness Research Education and Clinical Center for Veteran Suicide Prevention, said of Reach Vet. “My impression is that it’s identifying some folks who were previously on providers’ radar, but also others who were not.”

Late in 2018, a V.A. team led by Dr. McCarthy presented the first results of the Reach Vet system. Over a six-month period, with Reach Vet in place, high-risk veterans more than doubled their use of V.A. services. By contrast, in a comparison group tracked for six months before Reach Vet was installed, the use of V.A. services stayed roughly the same.

The Reach Vet group also had a lower mortality rate over that time — although it was an overall rate, including any cause of death. The analysis did not detect a difference in suicides, at least up to that stage. “It’s encouraging, but we’ve got much more to do to see if we’re having the impact we want,” Dr. McCarthy said.

Ronald Kessler, a professor of health care and policy at Harvard Medical School, said: “Right now, this and other models predict who’s at highest risk. What they don’t tell you is who is most likely to profit from an intervention. If you don’t know that, you don’t know where to put your resources.”

For doctors using the system, however, it has already prompted some rethinking of how to assess risk. “You end up with a lot of older men who are really struggling with medical problems,” Dr. Goodman said. “They’re quietly miserable, in pain, often alone, with financial problems, and you don’t see them because they’re not coming in.”

And for those whose names have popped up on Reach Vet’s list, the experience of being identified and contacted is not something they can easily forget.

Barry, the Vietnam veteran, said that he was in a relatively good place, for now. He is close to his two grown children, and he receives regular care at the Bronx V.A., including both individual and group therapy, and medication for recurrent psychotic episodes. But he is also aware of how quickly things can turn dark.

“Look, I know I sometimes talk to myself at night, and I hear voices,” he said. “The meds work fine, but once in a while they don’t, and that angers them, the voices. And that is not good for me.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.9 article:
China Says It Remains Open to the World, but Wants to Dictate Terms

China’s leader, Xi Jinping, is pursuing a strategy to make the country’s economy more self-sufficient, while making other places more dependent on it than ever.

After Australia dared last spring to call for an investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, China began quietly blocking one import after another from Australia — coal, wine, barley and cotton — in violation of free-trade norms. Then this month, with no clear explanation, China left $3 million worth of Australian rock lobsters dying in Shanghai customs.

Australia nonetheless joined 14 Asian nations and just signed a new regional free-trade deal brokered by China. The agreement covers nearly a third of the world’s population and output, reinforcing China’s position as the dominant economic and diplomatic power in Asia.

It’s globalization with Communist characteristics: The Chinese government promotes the country’s openness to the world, even as it adopts increasingly aggressive and at times punitive policies that force countries to play by its rules.

With the United States and others wary of its growing dominance in areas like technology, China wants to become less dependent on the world for its own needs, while making the world as dependent as possible on China.

“China wants what other great powers do,” said Yun Jiang, a researcher and editor of the China Story at the Australian National University. “It wants to follow international rules and norms when it is in its interest, and disregard rules and norms when the circumstances suit it.”

China’s strategy is born out of strength. The coronavirus has practically disappeared within its borders. The country’s economy is growing strongly. And China’s manufacturing sector has become the world’s largest by a wide margin, leaving other nations heavily dependent on it for everything from medical gear to advanced electronics.

Beijing is also pushing back against President Trump and his administration, taking advantage of the political disarray that has followed his electoral defeat. Beijing’s confidence on the global stage now compounds the challenge China will pose for the incoming administration of Joseph R. Biden Jr.

In a flurry of speeches over the last week, Xi Jinping, China’s ambitious, authoritarian leader, laid out his vision for this new world order, while making clear his terms for global engagement.

He reiterated at the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, an important regional forum, that the country had no intention of going it alone and “decoupling” its economy from the world. Appearing by videoconference, he said China remained committed to opening up and would “play its part” to make the global economy “fairer and more equitable.”

“Openness is a prerequisite for national progress, and closure will inevitably lead to backwardness,” Mr. Xi said in remarks that seemed to take a swipe at Mr. Trump’s America-first agenda.

At the same time, Mr. Xi is aggressively pushing for greater economic self-reliance at home — in other words, at least a partial decoupling. Mr. Xi has called for protectionist policies that would “comprehensively increase technological innovation and import substitution.”

During a meeting with leaders of the Group of 20 nations this weekend, he defended his new strategy to build greater self-sufficiency as a benefit to the global economy.

“While making the Chinese economy more resilient and competitive, it also aims to build a new system of open economy with higher standards,” he said. “This will create more opportunities for the world to benefit from China’s high-quality development.”

Mr. Xi wants to tether other countries ever more tightly into China’s economic and thus geopolitical orbit. In a speech to other Chinese leaders, recently published by a Communist Party journal, he called for Beijing to make sure that other countries remained dependent on China for key goods, as a way to ensure that they would not try to halt their own shipments to China.

Mr. Xi’s own economic and political policies this year have been the mirror opposite. China’s plan, Mr. Xi has said, is to lessen dependence on imports, insulating the country from rising external risks, including the threat of a long, pandemic-induced global economic downturn and the severing of Chinese access to American high-tech know-how.

In August, for example, the state offered a package of tax incentives for domestic semiconductor manufacturers, hoping to cultivate homegrown suppliers that can help reduce the nation’s huge dependence on imported silicon. Beijing does not want other Chinese tech businesses to suffer the same fate as Huawei, the telecom equipment giant that the Trump administration has targeted since last year by restricting its access to foreign-made semiconductors.

Thousands of Chinese companies have since jumped into the chip business, though progress is likely to be slow. Making advanced chips requires expertise and technological mastery that money alone cannot buy.

Mr. Xi’s strategy, of course, grew out of the Trump administration’s intensifying efforts to isolate China, which show no sign of waning in its last weeks. Since the election, the administration has barred investment in Chinese businesses with military ties; imposed more sanctions on Chinese officials for their role in cracking down on Hong Kong; and further engaged with Taiwan, the self-ruled island claimed by China.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said recently that countries now faced a choice between “barbarism on one side and freedom on the other.”

“We’ve woken them up to the threat posed by this Marxist-Leninist monster,” he said.

In the Asia-Pacific region, few governments view the choice so starkly. With many of them more dependent on trade with China now than with the United States, they cannot easily turn away. China, by far, is the largest market for Australia’s goods, buying nearly 38 percent of its exports; the United States accounts for 4 percent.

“The world as it exists today cannot be reduced to the rivalry of superpowers,” Laurent Bili, the French ambassador to China, said at a conference organized last week by the Center for China and Globalization, a Beijing research group.

Mr. Trump’s go-it-alone approach has given China an opening to portray itself as the champion of globalization. In Beijing’s argument, it is the United States that has now retreated by trying to restrict Chinese investments.

China is not only trying to capitalize on American political disarray but also to repair the damage that the pandemic has caused to China’s image, especially in Europe.

“The United States is still in electoral chaos, while China is forming the world’s largest trade agreement,” the Ministry of Commerce in Beijing wrote on its official website recently.

State media has struck a similar chord, trumpeting China as the defender of the global order. An opinion article by the state broadcaster CGTN was blunt, warning that those who would cut off links with China “are likely to end up on the outside of the world’s economic gravity.”

Australia is quickly learning to navigate this new world order, as dictated by China.

Australia has effectively blocked the purchase of Huawei 5G telecommunications gear for its national network and has become increasingly outspoken on China’s domestic politics. It joined the United States, Britain, New Zealand and Canada — the so-called Five Eyes nations — in a statement last week calling on Beijing to rescind its recent disqualification of pro-democracy legislators in Hong Kong.

The riposte from China’s foreign ministry was swift. “Be careful lest eyes get poked blind,” warned Zhao Lijian, a foreign ministry spokesman, at the ministry’s daily briefing on Thursday.

China has repeatedly targeted a grocery list of Australian exports, often with no formal explanation.

Australia went ahead anyway with the new trade agreement on Sunday in the hope that binding China in international agreements would affect its behavior — a position that has disappointed countries over and over.

Just a day later, officials at China’s embassy in Australia delivered a 14-point list of grievances to three news organizations, citing Australian foreign interference laws seen as aimed at China, the ban on Huawei and other investments, and its diplomatic “crusade” against Chinese policies in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Xinjiang.

“China is angry,” one embassy official explained to The Sydney Morning Herald. “If you make China the enemy, China will be the enemy.”





No.10 article:
Designed to Deceive: Do These People Look Real to You?





No.11 article:
Lady Elizabeth Anson, Party Planner to the Royals, Dies at 79

A daughter of British nobility, she knew instinctively how to make guests comfortable, the queen among them and even that table of dreadful bores.

She was born at Windsor, but unlike her royal relatives, she had to make a living and went to work at 19. Cripplingly shy, by her own account, she nonetheless became a professional hostess, organizing over-the-top events for, as she put it, “the very rich, the very idle, the very busy and the ones who simply haven’t a clue what to do.”

Lady Elizabeth Anson, indefatigable party planner to rock stars and royals and a cousin to Queen Elizabeth II, died on Nov. 1 at a hospital in London. She was 79.

Harriet Webber-Jamieson, her longtime deputy, confirmed the death but did not specify a cause.

Lady Elizabeth could handle protocol like a general — timing to the minute, for example, the arrival of this head of state or that king to a royal wedding. She knew that the queen liked her lamb well done, and that the queen should be served the first three slices of a roast. She felt that the secret to a successful party, along with easy access to the bathroom and to the bar, was to seat the boring people together; to her mind, they would never know the difference. It was a dictum so often repeated, Mrs. Webber-Jamieson said, that guests at a Lady Elizabeth affair began to wonder if they had been seated at the boring table.

Among the many, many thousands of events Lady Elizabeth oversaw — over a half-century’s worth of glittering shindigs — were the queen’s 80th and 90th birthday parties, as well as Margaret Thatcher’s 80th. In 2000 alone, in “a dazzling triple-header” as The Times of London put it, she pulled off celebrations of Prince William’s 18th birthday (June 21), Princess Anne’s 50th (Aug. 15) and Princess Margaret’s 70th (Aug 21).

Lady Elizabeth also organized the dinner the night before the wedding of William and Kate Middleton.

But the royals were not the only clients of Party Planners Limited, Lady Elizabeth’s company, which she started in 1960. She planned the wedding of Sting and Trudie Styler in 1992, for 250 guests at Sting’s Elizabethan manor, as well as that of Sacha Baron Cohen and the actress Isla Fisher, though that apparently all went for nought when the couple ended up marrying in a secret ceremony attended by six guests in Paris, according to various reports. As was her practice, for privacy and efficiency, Lady Elizabeth assigned Ms. Fisher a code name — Sally Dangletrot — and the actress wore a succession of wigs as they toured wedding sites.

The queen’s ever-changing code name was at one point Shirley Temple, and no wigs were involved.

One of Lady Elizabeth’s first jobs was a dance party at Windsor Castle for Prince Charles, then age 15, and Princess Anne, then age 13. It was 1963, and Lady Elizabeth was stunned to learn that spinning records was a profession.

“My business started before the discothèque was invented,” she told The New York Times in 2016. “So when this man told me he was going to charge me 25 pounds to put on records for the evening, I thought, ‘Is this man absolutely crazy?’ Anybody can put on a gramophone record.”

Lady Elizabeth’s parties weren’t always so bread-and-butter. The police were once called to a bash for the Rolling Stones, in their hotel-room-trashing days, and it turned predictably raucous, ending with the guests throwing unopened bottles of Dom Pérignon out of a hotel window and into the Thames.

More recently, when she tented the back garden of an apartment building for an event, unknowingly blocking the light in a basement apartment, the enraged tenants there countered by frying fish and filling the tent with the smell of burning kippers. Lady Elizabeth reacted with typical ingenuity: She sprayed the tent with eau de toilette.

The affair proceeded as planned, and without undue odor.

In later years her team invested in a perfume gun and stockpiled gardenia scent. The gun would perfume the tablecloths and seat cushions of every party, not as a prophylactic against kipper smoke but because Lady Elizabeth liked the smell of fresh flowers, and farm-raised flowers have no odor.

A workaholic and a perfectionist, she often said that if guests weren’t comfortable — if they were cold or couldn’t find the bathroom — they would have a perfectly rotten evening, no matter how beautiful the party was or how delicious the food. For an event at the chilly Victoria and Albert Museum, at which the queen was a guest, each place setting included a hot water bottle stitched into a velvet cover, and on each chair was a pashmina wrap. Lady Elizabeth made sure that the queen had an extra hot water bottle placed under her feet.

Though her knowledge of dynastic hierarchies — political, royal or otherwise — was vast (she always knew who was on top in the complicated pecking order of ma’ams and super ma’ams, as Nancy Mitford once described obscure European royalty), Lady Elizabeth liked to say that when in doubt, one should upgrade: Drop a curtsy and smile.

Elizabeth Georgiana Anson was born on June 7, 1941, on the royal family’s Windsor Castle estate, outside London. Her father was Viscount Anson, and her mother was Anne Bowes-Lyon, whose father, John Bowes-Lyon, was the queen mother’s brother. (The queen mother was also an Elizabeth.)

Elizabeth’s parents divorced when she was 7, and her mother married Prince George of Denmark. Elizabeth was immediately sent to boarding school. She often said that she learned nothing there except good manners.

When she was 15, her father died, and her older brother, Patrick Lichfield, then just 17, inherited the family’s 17th-century estate, Shugborough Hall, in central England. Elizabeth managed it for Patrick.

“I had to grow up very quickly,” she said.

With her mother a distant presence, Lady Elizabeth planned her own debutante party, a scary and overwhelming experience that gave her the inspiration for her business.

In 1972 she married Geoffrey Shakerley, a baronet, at Westminster Abbey. Princess Anne was a bridesmaid. The couple divorced in 2009.

Lady Elizabeth is survived by her daughter, Fiona Burrows; two stepsons, Joth and Nicholas Shakerley; and four grandchildren.

Lady Elizabeth was not immune to personal and financial setbacks. In the early 1990s, an investment in Lloyd’s of London, the insurance market, vanished when the company’s losses left her and thousands of wealthy investors liable in the financial crisis.

In 1993, when Ivana Trump, newly divorced from Donald J. Trump, hired Lady Elizabeth to organize a 50th-birthday party for Ms. Trump’s fiancé at the time, Riccardo Mazzucchelli, and then doubled the guest list, Ms. Trump refused to pay the difference. The two spent years in court as Lady Elizabeth fought to recoup the amount, about $9,000. She lost.

In 2001, she was robbed in her house on Ladbroke Grove in West London by masked invaders, who attacked her while she was watching television and stole her jewelry.

She played the lottery every week. She never won.

Despite the crises, Lady Elizabeth remained the embodiment of the wartime slogan “Keep calm and carry on,” her favorite phrase, said Mrs. Webber-Jamieson, to whom she left her business.

“She was the bravest person I know,” she added. Though Lady Elizabeth suffered from chronic fatigue syndrome and a respiratory illness, Mrs. Webber-Jamieson said, “once the hair and makeup was on, it was showtime.”





No.12 article:
How Misinformation ‘Superspreaders’ Seed False Election Theories

On the morning of Nov. 5, Eric Trump, one of the president’s sons, asked his Facebook followers to report cases of voter fraud with the hashtag, Stop the Steal. His post was shared over 5,000 times.

By late afternoon, the conservative media personalities Diamond and Silk had shared the hashtag along with a video claiming voter fraud in Pennsylvania. Their post was shared over 3,800 times.

That night, the conservative activist Brandon Straka asked people to protest in Michigan under the banner #StoptheSteal. His post was shared more than 3,700 times.

Over the next week, the phrase “Stop the Steal” was used to promote dozens of rallies that spread false voter fraud claims about the U.S. presidential elections.

New research from Avaaz, a global human rights group, the Elections Integrity Partnership and The New York Times shows how a small group of people — mostly right-wing personalities with outsized influence on social media — helped spread the false voter-fraud narrative that led to those rallies.

That group, like the guests of a large wedding held during the pandemic, were “superspreaders” of misinformation around voter fraud, seeding falsehoods that include the claims that dead people voted, voting machines had technical glitches, and mail-in ballots were not correctly counted.

“Because of how Facebook’s algorithm functions, these superspreaders are capable of priming a discourse,” said Fadi Quran, a director at Avaaz. “There is often this assumption that misinformation or rumors just catch on. These superspreaders show that there is an intentional effort to redefine the public narrative.”

Across Facebook, there were roughly 3.5 million interactions — including likes, comments and shares — on public posts referencing “Stop the Steal” during the week of Nov. 3, according to the research. Of those, the profiles of Eric Trump, Diamond and Silk and Mr. Straka accounted for a disproportionate share — roughly 6 percent, or 200,000, of those interactions.

While the group’s impact was notable, it did not come close to the spread of misinformation promoted by President Trump since then. Of the 20 most-engaged Facebook posts over the last week containing the word “election,” all were from Mr. Trump, according to Crowdtangle, a Facebook-owned analytics tool. All of those claims were found to be false or misleading by independent fact checkers.

The baseless election fraud claims have been used by the president and his supporters to challenge the vote in a number of states. Reports that malfunctioning voting machines, intentionally miscounted mail-in votes and other irregularities affected the vote were investigated by election officials and journalists who found no evidence of widespread voter fraud.

The voter fraud claims have continued to gather steam in recent weeks, thanks in large part to prominent accounts. A look at a four-week period starting in mid-October shows that President Trump and the top 25 superspreaders of voter fraud misinformation accounted for 28.6 percent of the interactions people had with that content, according to an analysis by Avaaz.

“What we see these people doing is kind of like setting a fire down with fuel, it is designed to quickly create a blaze,” Mr. Quran said. “These actors have built enough power they ensure this misinformation reaches millions of Americans.”

In order to find the superspreaders, Avaaz compiled a list of 95,546 Facebook posts that included narratives about voter fraud. Those posts were liked, shared or commented on nearly 60 million times by people on Facebook.

Avaaz found that just 33 of the 95,546 posts were responsible for over 13 million of those interactions. Those 33 posts had created a narrative that would go on to shape what millions of people thought about the legitimacy of the U.S. elections.

A spokesman for Facebook said the company had added labels to posts that misrepresented the election process and was directing people to a voting information center.

“We’re taking every opportunity to connect people to reliable information about the election and how votes are being counted,” said Kevin McAlister, a Facebook spokesman. The company has not commented on why accounts that repeatedly share misinformation, such as Mr. Straka’s and Diamond and Silk’s, have not been penalized. Facebook has previously said that President Trump, along with other elected officials, is granted a special status and is not fact-checked.

Many of the superspreader accounts had millions of interactions on their Facebook posts over the last month, and have enjoyed continued growth. The accounts were active on Twitter as well as Facebook, and increasingly spread the same misinformation on new social media sites like Parler, MeWe and Gab.

Dan Bongino, a right-wing commentator with a following of nearly four million people on Facebook, had over 7.7 million interactions on Facebook the week of Nov. 3. Mark Levin, a right-wing radio host, had nearly four million interactions, and Diamond and Silk had 2.5 million. A review of their pages by The Times shows that a majority of their posts have focused on the recent elections, and voter fraud narratives around them.

None of the superspreaders identified in this article responded to requests for comment.

One of the most prominent false claims promoted by the superspreaders was that Dominion voting software deleted votes for Mr. Trump, or somehow changed vote tallies in several swing states. Election officials have found no evidence that the machines malfunctioned, but posts about the machines have been widely shared by Mr. Trump and his supporters.

Over the last week, just seven posts from the top 25 superspreaders of the Dominion voter fraud claim accounted for 13 percent of the total interactions on Facebook about the claim.

Many of those same accounts were also top superspreaders of the Dominion claim, and other voter fraud theories, on Twitter. The accounts of President Trump, his son Eric, Mr. Straka and Mr. Levin were all among the top 20 accounts that spread misinformation about voter fraud on Twitter, according to Ian Kennedy, a researcher at the University of Washington who works with the Elections Integrity Partnership.

Mr. Trump had by far the largest influence on Twitter. A single tweet by the president accusing Dominion voting systems of deleting 2.7 million votes in his favor was shared over 185,000 times, and liked over 600,000 times.

Like the other false claims about voter fraud, Mr. Trump’s tweet included a label by Twitter that he was sharing information that was not accurate.

Twitter, like Facebook, has said that those labels help prevent false claims from being shared and direct people toward more authoritative sources of information.

Earlier this week, BuzzFeed News reported that Facebook employees questioned whether the labels were effective. Within the company, employees have sought out their own data on how well national newspapers performed during the elections, according to one Facebook employee.

On the #StoptheSteal hashtag, they found that both The New York Times and The Washington Post were among the top 25 pages with interactions on that hashtag — mainly from readers sharing articles and using the hashtag in those posts. (People sharing the articles could have been intending to debunk the campaign.)

Combined, the two publications had approximately 44,000 interactions on Facebook under that hashtag. By comparison, Mr. Straka, the conservative activist who shared the call to action on voter fraud, got three times that number of interactions sharing material under the same hashtag on his own Facebook account.





No.13 article:
A Film Festival in Poland Feted His Work. Now He May Face Prison There.

Matty Libatique, the celebrated, Oscar-nominated cinematographer, is to be tried in February on charges he assaulted a paramedic who responded when he collapsed at a Polish hotel.

News photos showed Matty Libatique looking like he’d just been yanked from a barroom brawl; wild-eyed, disheveled, his hands cuffed behind his back.

The Oscar-nominated cinematographer, who shot “A Star is Born,” “Straight Outta Compton,” “Black Swan” and “Iron Man,” had been arrested in northern Poland, accused of slugging a paramedic who came to his side when he collapsed in a hotel lobby during a film festival there.

Hollywood’s trade news and gossip sites reported the November 2018 incident, and Mr. Libatique’s colleagues made light of it a few days later when he returned to the United States.

But the joking was lost on Mr. Libatique, who says he can remember nothing about his collapse or what followed. He admits he had been drinking but fears, he said, with some evidence, that he was intentionally drugged.

What is incontrovertible is that he now faces possibly four and a half years in prison.

Though the Polish authorities pursue several thousand assault cases a year without much fanfare, the country’s top law enforcement official, the national Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, took an interest in this one.

He remarked on Mr. Libatique’s case during a news conference the day after the cinematographer’s arrest. Too many paramedics were being assaulted nationwide, Mr. Ziobro said, and he urged prosecutors to “demand much more severe penalties.”

Polish paramedics have, in fact, been sounding the alarm about violence on the job. A recent study found nearly all of the paramedics polled had experienced aggression on the job, though the majority did not report assaults to police.

But Marcin Matczak, a law professor at the University of Warsaw, who studies Poland’s criminal justice system and is a critic of the national government, said he thought Mr. Ziobro was blowing the Libatique matter out of proportion to burnish his image as a defender of the common man.

“He was used by the minister of justice for his own populistic propaganda,” the professor said.

Mr. Ziobro’s office said in a statement that the justice minister had not singled out Mr. Libatique’s arrest but that the issue needed to be addressed because of “the increasing number of cases of assault on doctors, paramedics and medical staff providing assistance.”

“While performing their duties outside of the hospital, e.g. during mass events and in dangerous locations, they often fall prey to violence on the part of people under the influence of alcohol or psychoactive substances,” the statement said.

Mr. Libatique’s defense lawyer, Marcin Maminski, has argued that the national government has improperly meddled in the case, leaning on local prosecutors to an unusual extent. And though first offenders rarely receive harsh sentences, Mr. Libatique worries that, if he is convicted, prosecutors will push for the full three-year term on the assault charge plus another 1.5 years on a second charge he faces — “wybryk chuligański,” or hooliganism. They had tried to hold him for months without bail while he awaited trial until Polish judges ruled otherwise.

“I’m basically guilty until proven innocent and it scares me,” Mr. Libatique said, speaking from his home in Los Angeles.

Now he fears extradition back to a country where, in November 2018, he was treated, at first, like a rock star. He went there to attend Camerimage, a festival for directors of photography that draws a glittering international crowd to Bydgoszcz, about 180 miles northwest of Warsaw.

Mr. Libatique is known among cinematographers and their fans for edgy, highly polished shots that plunge audiences into the quivering psyches of characters, and the menace, sorrow, and ecstasy of their worlds. He earned a reputation for risk taking at the outset of his career, after shooting his film school buddy Darren Aronofsky’s early fever-dream films, among them “Pi,” and the sumptuously disturbing “Requiem for a Dream” (they’ve done six feature films together). In an email, Mr. Aronofsky described Mr. Libatique as a dogged perfectionist with a masterly eye: “his passion never wanes,” Mr. Aronofsky said. Mr. Libatique has also worked with Spike Lee, Joel Schumacher and Jon Favreau.

Stephen Pizzello, editor in chief of American Cinematographer magazine and one of Mr. Libatique’s longtime friends, said Mr. Libatique was “sort of a legend” at the Polish festival. “Matty’s in that class of guys who get mobbed,” Mr. Pizzello said. “Everybody loves the guy.”

On his last night there, Mr. Libatique and his partner, Mary Ellen Vales, went pub- and party-hopping into the wee hours.

Sometime after midnight, Mr. Libatique was holding a beer when he said someone — he doesn’t remember who — pressed a vodka drink into his hand.

After that, a curtain drops around his memory, he said.

But Ms. Vales, who was with him, said that shortly after 4 a.m., inside a club, Mr. Libatique started stumbling. He was talking gibberish, and later began weeping. A cab took them to the hotel and the driver lugged Mr. Libatique to a couch. But he was dead weight, and slid to the floor, where he started convulsing and foaming at the mouth. Ms. Vales cried to the concierge for help.

Minutes later, two paramedics arrived.

According to prosecutors, Libatique fought back when they tried to help him, breaking one of the paramedic’s teeth and later kicking a policeman.

Ms. Vales said the paramedics were rough with Mr. Libatique as they hauled him across the glossy tiled floor toward a more open space. Mr. Libatique responded as if attacked, flailing and yelling obscenities, and then took a swing, connecting with one of the paramedic’s faces, she said.

After that, Ms. Vales recalled, “all hell breaks loose.” She said the paramedics jumped on top of Mr. Libatique, and hit him in the face. As Mr. Libatique’s nose gushed blood, she said one paramedic restrained Mr. Libatique, while the other began squeezing Mr. Libatique’s head with his hands, telling Ms. Vales that Mr. Libatique had no respect. A video Ms. Vales took shows Mr. Libatique face down, cuffed and wailing unintelligibly, his face bloodied, a plume of reddish liquid on a pillow by his head, with blood smears on the floor. When the police arrived, they strapped Mr. Libatique to the seat of an ambulance, and drove him to a hospital.

Ms. Vales and Mr. Pizzello rushed there as well. Mr. Pizzello was allowed to go see his friend, who was hollering in a nearby room, handcuffed to a chair. At first Mr. Libatique didn’t recognize him, Mr. Pizzello said in an interview, and it concerned him. He’d seen Mr. Libatique only a few hours earlier, tipsy but lucid. Mr. Pizzello said two police officers standing by remarked that there was no way Mr. Libatique had gotten that intoxicated by alcohol alone.

Mr. Libatique’s memories of that morning are dim. He said he remembers waking up in hospital, his wrists and back sore, his face aching. He had never, he says, blacked out before from drinking, or come close to creating a scene, a claim his friends support.

“I remember trying to stay calm,” Mr. Libatique said. “And I remember trying to remember things.” He pieced together that he had hit someone, and would have to apologize, which he later did in court, saying he was sorry, he recalled, to the victims of his actions, the people of Bydgoszcz and to the Camerimage festival organizers.

Mr. Libatique was held for several nights in jail until a judge freed him, dismissing the prosecutors’ request that he be held until trial. Libatique was legally allowed to leave the country, but was fearful of being stopped at the airport, so he and Ms. Vales were driven by car into Germany at night

Two days later they returned to the U.S. where they later learned that prosecutors had appealed the decision to release him and were demanding the equivalent of $26,000 in bail, which Mr. Libatique paid.

But he’s carried on working, opting to lay low and make scant mention of the case, even as some people joshed about him having a wild night out. When Hollywood awards season kicked into gear in late 2018, he largely ducked out of promoting his work on “A Star is Born,” though it earned him his second Academy Award nomination. He was hired to shoot “Birds of Prey (And the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn),” and Ryan Murphy’s “The Prom,” a musical to be released next month on Netflix.

Back in Poland, the case proceeded from one year to the next. Mr. Libatique’s lawyers have been challenging the prosecution’s argument that he was simply wildly drunk. According to official reports, blood taken from Mr. Libatique at the hospital showed a sky-high alcohol level of 0.30 percent. (In New York state, a charge of driving while intoxicated is triggered by a blood alcohol level of .08 percent.)

But Mr. Maminski contests that finding as false, and said he has separately submitted court filings accusing the paramedics and doctors who attended to Mr. Libatique of malpractice, though he would not elaborate on what basis.

The defense cannot definitively prove that Mr. Libatique was drugged, only that he might have been. Last year, in response to growing numbers of tourists getting drugged in Poland, the United States embassy in Warsaw issued a security alert. A toxicologist hired by the defense reported earlier this year that DNA samples taken from Mr. Libatique’s hair indicated he could have been drugged with GHB, the so-called date-rape drug. High levels of dextromethorphan, or DXM, a cough medicine stimulant used recreationally for “robo-tripping,” were also found. Mr. Maminski said his client had not willingly ingested either substance.

“It’s obvious that the prosecutor’s office in this case is not acting independently and is in fact following orders of superiors, not trying to establish the truth,” Mr. Maminski said.

A spokesman for the prosecutors’ office in Bydgoszcz, Włodzimierz Marszałkowski, said the toxicology test of hair samples cited by the defense was suspect because it had been taken nearly two months after the event.

Mr. Marszałkowski also denied that Mr. Libatique had been roughly handled and said he was being treating just like anyone else. Mr. Libatique’s avowal that he was not aware of what had happened and had no control over his actions only hurt his case, the spokesman said.

“In Poland, the fact that you’re under the influence of alcohol does not constitute a mitigating factor but an aggravating one,” Mr. Marszałkowski said.

Mr. Libatique’s trial is schedule to start in February and he and Ms. Vales expect to be allowed to testify from the United States over a video link.

Even during the pandemic, Mr. Libatique is working still, shooting Olivia Wilde’s latest picture, “Don’t Worry Darling,” near Palm Springs. But he said he’s turned down plum opportunities to work abroad, among them shooting Bradley Cooper’s new Leonard Bernstein film in London, because he is no longer comfortable leaving the country.

He and Ms. Vales are now engaged, but have put off getting married because of the stress of a case that friends say presents Mr. Libatique as a belligerent drunk, as a person they do not recognize.

“I’ve spent a lot of time with Matty all over the world,” Mr. Aronofsky said, “and he is always a gentleman.”





No.14 article:
With John Kerry Pick, Biden Selects a ‘Climate Envoy’ With Stature

Mr. Biden said he would name Mr. Kerry to a cabinet-level climate post, a role laden with political and diplomatic challenges in the post-Trump era.

WASHINGTON — When John Kerry served as President Barack Obama’s secretary of state, he helped steer the negotiation of the Paris Agreement on climate change, locking down commitments from nearly 200 nations — including his own — to begin to reverse the dangerous warming of the planet.

Now his diplomatic task may be even tougher.

On Monday, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. said he would name Mr. Kerry his special presidential envoy for climate, creating a new cabinet-level position. In that role, Mr. Kerry will need to convince skeptical global leaders — burned by the Trump administration’s hostility toward climate science and its rejection of the 2015 Paris Agreement — that the United States not only is prepared to resume its leadership role but will also stay the course, regardless of the Biden administration’s future.

“The United States’ credibility on climate change has plummeted over the last four years,” said Nicholas Burns, a Harvard professor and a former longtime State Department official who served Republican and Democratic administrations.

He called Mr. Kerry’s appointment a “powerful signal” that will help the United States, the world’s second-largest greenhouse gas emitter after China, start regaining global trust on the issue.

The appointment of Mr. Kerry not only as a roving diplomat but also as a sitting member of Mr. Biden’s National Security Council elevates the issue of climate change to the highest echelons of government, and indicates that the incoming administration intends to treat “the climate crisis as the urgent national security threat that it is,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement.

In naming Mr. Kerry Mr. Biden has tapped one of the biggest names in his government so far, a veteran politician adept at drawing attention to himself and his causes since he led opposition to the Vietnam War as a decorated young veteran.

“It’s an unusual sign, and certainly one that will grab everybody’s attention internationally,” said Todd S. Stern, who served as the State Department’s climate envoy under Mr. Obama.

But Mr. Kerry’s powers of persuasion on the world stage will only be as strong as the domestic policies that back up his promises. If Republicans continue to hold the majority in the Senate next year, he could face considerable headwinds at home.

Although two-thirds of Americans say the government should do more to address climate change, many Republicans remain firmly opposed to the measures most likely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as drastically reducing the burning of fossil fuels. Such actions, they say, will further cripple an economy hobbled by the coronavirus and would accomplish little as emissions grow in the world’s two most populous nations, China and India.

Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform and an opponent of addressing climate change, called Mr. Kerry “the poster child for what Middle America thinks the elitists look like who live in their fancy houses and drive their expensive cars and use a lot of carbon and tell the rest of us that the peasants are enjoying life too much.”

Republicans have been eager to pursue that line of attack, claiming repeatedly that the Biden administration is destined to embrace the Green New Deal proposals supported by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Mr. Biden has denied that, while pledging to “work with Congress to implement a bold agenda that addresses the climate emergency, achieves environmental justice and creates good-paying jobs.”

Bob Inglis, a Republican climate activist and former conservative congressman from South Carolina, said Mr. Biden’s choice of an elder statesman might make Republicans more willing to work constructively, as “it takes away the threat of creating a new Democratic star.”

Another factor in Mr. Kerry’s appeal to Republicans? His appointment prompted concern on the left.

The group Food &amp; Water Action, which fights against the oil and gas extraction technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, criticized Mr. Kerry for having supported natural gas and for being a “promoter of false climate solutions like market-based carbon-trading schemes.”

Mr. Kerry last year created a coalition of Republicans and Democrats willing to work together on climate change. Several Republican members strongly embrace the continued burning of natural gas as a way to eliminate coal, which emits twice as much carbon dioxide. However, drilling for natural gas also releases methane — an extremely potent greenhouse gas.

Mr. Biden’s support for natural gas was one of the biggest sources of concern for liberals throughout his campaign. Even as Mr. Biden promised to steer the United States toward reaching net-zero emissions by 2050 and pledged to end new permits for oil and gas drilling on public lands and waters, he vowed not to ban fracking and publicly embraced natural gas as a “bridge” between coal and renewable energy sources like solar and wind.

It may be Mr. Kerry who serves as the bridge — between the dissatisfied left, the unmoving right and the waiting world. He has been advocating action on climate change since he served in 1992 with then-Senator Al Gore on the U.S. delegation to the first Rio Earth Summit, where the framework of United Nations climate talks was formed.

He also knows the difficulty of persuading his own country to take action. In 2009, Mr. Kerry was co-author of climate change legislation as a senator from Massachusetts that would have set a ceiling on America’s greenhouse gas emissions while allowing companies to trade permits to meet that target; the legislation passed the House but died in the Senate without even seeing a vote.

Those who have worked with him describe Mr. Kerry as having real understanding of the science of climate change, a grasp of the economic costs and benefits of moving to clean energy and a close working relationship with dozens of leaders in the field. Mr. Stern recalled a speech Mr. Kerry gave to ministers on one of the tense final nights of the Paris negotiations in which he urged developing nations to give up long-held positions that only industrialized nations should have to take firm emissions commitments because the threat of a warming planet was too dire. The speech won praise even from countries that opposed his view, Mr. Stern said.

The role of envoy has changed since the Obama years. Rather than corralling other nations into a legal agreement, Mr. Kerry will be charged with persuading other nations to take increasingly bold steps to significantly cut their carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030.

“His job is to basically execute a pivot from 30 years of negotiations to a decade of aggressive action,” said Paul Bodnar, managing director at the Rocky Mountain Institute, which works on climate policy, and who served at the State Department under Mr. Kerry.

“The single most important thing is going to be the relationship with China. That is first, second, third and fourth on the list after re-entering Paris,” said Tim Wirth, who served as under secretary of state for global affairs under President Bill Clinton.

As special presidential envoy for climate, Mr. Kerry will participate in ministerial-level meetings with a cabinet rank. He will not have to face Senate confirmation, according to Mr. Biden’s transition team.

One of his earliest tests will be a global summit that Mr. Biden has said he will hold on climate change within the first 100 days of his administration. According to Mr. Biden’s transition team, the president-elect will also name in December a White House climate policy coordinator who will help streamline domestic climate change policies throughout the government.

“I think we cannot underestimate the loss of credibility that the U.S. has experienced since Paris,” warned Carol Browner, who held the position of White House coordinator for energy and climate policy in the Obama administration.

Democratic administrations in the United States have a history of joining climate pacts like the Paris Agreement (and before that, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol) only for them to be abandoned by subsequent Republican presidents. International leaders said they were eager to see Washington back at the table, but said restoring America’s credibility would not be easy.

“Kerry’s challenge is ‘fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me,’” said Rachel Kyte, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.

She noted that the Paris Agreement was designed to survive a hiatus in support from the United States. But, Ms. Kyte said, “That the U.S. walked away from the biggest challenge of this generation has left scar tissue.”





No.15 article:
Why ‘Gilmore Girls’ Endures

This week brings the broadcast debut of “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life,” on the CW. The creator Amy Sherman-Palladino and other “Gilmore” veterans look back on the show’s lasting appeal.

Long ago, in a far-off time and place where people could freely enjoy themselves in the company of strangers, also known as December 2019, an enormous crowd was gathered at the Warner Bros. lot in Burbank. There were dueling “Team Jess” and “Team Dean” buttons, and while the ever-perky tour guides gave their usual spiel about “Harry Potter” (“Any Slytherins here today?”) and Batman, the attendees on that day’s studio tour were really only there for one thing: to visit Stars Hollow.

The studio had briefly recreated the quirky Connecticut town from the television series “Gilmore Girls,” which ran from 2000 to 2007, and lines had formed in front of Luke’s Diner and the town gazebo to have your picture taken by Warner Bros. employees. It was fakery and pretense, complete with “Gilmore”-themed tchotchkes for sale (I bought my fair share, of course), but it also served as a tangible reminder of how passionately people still love this gentle, witty, kind show about family and community.

October marked the 20th anniversary of the premiere of “Gilmore Girls,” and this week a 2016 revival, “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life,” will air as a mini-series special on the CW, the network where it all began, back when it was known as the WB. (“A Year in the Life” debuted on Netflix.) The belated broadcast debut is CW’s attempt to fill a Covid-sized hole in its original programming, but it is also testament to the ongoing appeal of “Gilmore Girls.”

“Gilmore Girls” debuted on Oct. 5, 2000, and last month brought more evidence of its status as a beloved memento of the Y2K era. Some of the show’s stars, including Keiko Agena and Yanic Truesdale, appeared on “Good Morning America” to celebrate the show’s 20th anniversary. The “Gilmore Girls” creator Amy Sherman-Palladino and her husband, the writer and executive producer Daniel Palladino, released a statement honoring “a cast that changed our lives.” The star Lauren Graham paid tribute to “Gilmore” fans on Twitter: “Your kindness and devotion to this show have brought me so much joy over the years.”

Sherman-Palladino, whose flair for ingenious dialogue and carefully crafted emotional nuance were the key ingredients in the show’s ongoing appeal, said that given the pandemic, she had forgotten about the anniversary until someone reminded her earlier this year.

“Celebrating anniversaries is on the back burner right now,” she said. “You’re just trying to keep people from coughing and sneezing in your general direction.” (Numerous “Gilmore” veterans offered only one word when asked how the anniversary made them feel: “Old.” It’s “like we need to be called to the Motion Picture Home and reserving a room,” Sherman-Palladino said.)

But she remains happy to talk about the origins of the show that is still her most famous creation, even in a career that includes the cult favorite “Bunheads” and the multiple Emmy-winning Amazon hit “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.”

“Any time you do something that people care about for a week,” she said, “that’s delightful.”

Few would have predicted in 2000 that “Gilmore Girls” would be so enduring. It was never a breakout hit during its seven-year run. It never found its way to a mass audience, was never nominated for a major Emmy, never received the gotta-watch-it buzz of other shows that arrived around the same moment. But through word of mouth, DVD sales, millennial nostalgia, and the power of Netflix, which greenlit the reboot in 2016 after first purchasing the streaming rights to the series, new fans, some of whom had not yet been born when the show premiered, discovered Lorelai and Rory.

“There’s not a day goes by that I don’t have a 14-, 15-, 16-year-old girl telling me that they’re watching it now,” said Truesdale, who played Lorelai’s acerbic co-worker Michel.

In the 1990s, Sherman-Palladino was a writer on the hit ABC series “Roseanne” — before the creator Roseanne Barr “did conspiracy theories,” she noted. But eventually the writer had a “massive breakdown” and realized that she did not want to work in half-hour comedies anymore. Her husband, Daniel Palladino, then on the writing staff of “Family Guy,” convinced her to take some time off to write something original. There were few distractions in sight.

“It was when Courtney Love and Edward Norton were dating, and she had rented a house across the street,” Sherman-Palladino recalled. “At three o’clock every day, I got to watch Edward Norton drive up, and Courtney Love run out in a nightgown and jump on Edward Norton as they went inside, and that was my big excitement for a few weeks.”

The idea for the show was to tell the story of a bookish teenage girl whose best friend was her 30-something mother. The backdrop would be an idyllic Connecticut town full of oddballs and eccentrics, and the tone would be a blend of character-driven comedy and drama, all set to a screwball pace.

“Of the fans I talk to, they generally fall into two categories,” said Sheila Lawrence, a longtime writer for the show. “Either they have a Lorelai-and-Rory relationship, or they desperately wish they had a Lorelai-and-Rory relationship.”

After the show was acquired by the WB network, Sherman-Palladino insisted on holding out until they found the ideal performers for each role, regardless of their prior experience or fame. Sherman-Palladino picked Graham for the part of Lorelai over several more well-known actors, at least partly for her literary acumen.

“She’s the first actress that pronounced the name ‘Kerouac’ correctly,” Sherman-Palladino told her husband after seeing her.

For the showrunner, Graham was a welcome throwback to a time of captivating, fast-talking female performers: “In the age of screwball comedy, Carole Lombard would have been out the door and she would have taken her place,” Sherman-Palladino said.

“Gilmore” was stubbornly insistent on the richness of the mundane. “Roseanne” had offered a helpful motto, courtesy of the producer Bob Myer, which Sherman-Palladino carried over to her own series: “Make the small big, make the big small.” There were episodes about Lorelai dressing inappropriately to visit Rory’s snooty new prep school, and Rory getting a D on a test. “Gilmore” studiously avoided what Sherman-Palladino refers to as “Who in the town killed Sookie?” story lines.

The tone was set from the moment the writing staff was first assembled. “Amy was telling us about the show,” said John Stephens, who was on the “Gilmore” writing staff for four seasons. “She said, ‘This show is about a mother and a daughter who are best friends as well as being mother and daughter, and every conflict and dynamic should ticktack back and forth on that one point.’”

While the series shared a glossy visual aesthetic with other WB shows from the era, like the teen dramas “Dawson’s Creek” and “One Tree Hill,” the writing set it apart. The scripts were “very sophisticated and brilliant, and we were on this new network that was teenybopper shows,” said Jamie Babbit, who directed 18 “Gilmore Girls” episodes.

“Gilmore” was daunting at first for the performers, who had to memorize scripts that were 20 pages longer than the average hourlong series. To make matters tougher, Sherman-Palladino insisted that performers deliver the lines exactly as written. “This was a show where if you changed one word, they would cut,” Truesdale said.

Actors also had to adjust to Sherman-Palladino’s belief that television characters in 2000 should sound like Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell.

“The feedback was, ‘That was great. Could we do it again, just a little bit faster?’” said Agena, who played Rory’s best friend Lane. George Bell, the show’s dialogue coach, would ask guest performers to “Gilmore-ize” their performances. When they looked at him, befuddled, he would explain: “Speed it up. You’ve just got to speed it up,” he said.

The dialogue, according to Babbit, was too fast to allow for traditional editing: “It would be like watching a Ping-Pong match,” she said. Instead, the show preferred to stick two characters in the frame and let them talk it out, with scenes filling five or 10 pages of script, instead of the customary page and a quarter.

Scott Patterson, who played the diner owner Luke, Lorelai’s will-they-or-won’t-they love interest, said he and Graham both quickly realized they had to quit smoking if they wanted to survive. “She needed her wind, and I needed my wind,” he said.

On-the-fly rewrites, in addition to the volume and pace of the dialogue, kept the performers scrambling. Patterson recalled one shooting day that began with “a 10-page scene that came out of the writers’ room at 6:30 a.m.,” he said. “Lauren and I were sitting in the makeup chair,” he said. “We looked at each other with this abject terror, and then we got to work.”

Bledel, a model and college student with limited television experience, needed more help than the others at first, not even knowing which camera she was supposed to face. “I remember saying to Lauren at one point, ‘I love when I’m watching the show, how you’re always touching her,’” said Kelly Bishop, who played steely WASP materfamilias Emily Gilmore. “She said, ‘Actually, the reason I started doing that was because I wanted to get her to her mark.’”

Popular culture was the lifeblood of the series, and Rory and Lorelai’s conversations, speckled with rapid-fire allusions to bad television shows and great books and distant historical epochs, were the joyous center of the show, offering fans a utopian fantasy of familial love grounded in the deep appreciation of “Cop Rock.” A single episode might reference Nikolai Gogol, “The Brady Bunch Variety Hour,” the punk band Agnostic Front, the Velvet Underground collaborator Nico, “Fiddler on the Roof,” David Hockney, and the Franco-Prussian War.

“There was going to be an Oscar Levant mention in there, and if you don’t know who he is, that’s OK! Look it up,” Sherman-Palladino said.

Perhaps partly because it was on the fledgling WB, where it faced off against Nielsen behemoths like “Friends” and “American Idol,” and partly because of its reputation as a “girlie” show in an era that celebrated middle-aged masculine antiheroes like Tony Soprano, “Gilmore Girls” never received much awards attention. The show received one Emmy nomination and award, for best makeup.

“We were continually shocked that we were overlooked by the Academy and never really got any nominations for the show, or individual acting,” Patterson said. “Not that we were doing it to get awards, but you want to be recognized. You want to be given credit.”

The cast and crew were especially dismayed that Graham never received the Emmy nomination they believed she richly deserved. “I can’t even think of anyone else who could do what she did,” Lawrence said. “And I hate that she wasn’t acknowledged with some hardware for that.”

Some “Gilmore” veterans blamed sexism for the show’s second-class status. Series about the ordinary triumphs and heartaches of women have until quite recently been treated like they are of inherently limited interest.

“The industry is really conservative and doesn’t know how great things are, especially when they’re written and created by women, and about women,” Babbit said.

“Gilmore Girls” turned 20 while we were mostly hunkered down in our homes, separated and anxious, awaiting good news and the eventual return of community. For many fans, Stars Hollow has always been their happy place, and is only more so now.

“I’m in California right now, you can’t breathe, you can’t go outside and be with other people, this election is looming,” Stephens said in October. “The world can be a terrifying place, but in Stars Hollow, you can go there and the world is still this wonderful, lovely place.”





No.16 article:
Business Leaders, Citing Damage to Country, Urge Trump to Begin Transition

At the urging of New York’s attorney general, business leaders in New York pushed for the Trump administration to begin a transfer of power.

Concerned that President Trump’s refusal to accept the election results is hurting the country, more than 160 top American executives asked the administration on Monday to immediately acknowledge Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the president-elect and begin the transition to a new administration.

Even one of Mr. Trump’s stalwart supporters, Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of Blackstone, the private equity firm, said in a statement that “the outcome is very certain today and the country should move on.” While he did not sign a letter sent to the administration by the other executives, he said he was “now ready to help President-elect Biden and his team.”

Signatories to the letter included the chief executives of Mastercard, Visa, MetLife, Accenture, the Carlyle Group, Condé Nast, McGraw-Hill, WeWork and American International Group, among others. They included some of the most important players in the financial industry: David M. Solomon, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs; Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of the asset management giant BlackRock; Jon Gray, Blackstone’s president; and Henry R. Kravis, a prominent Republican donor who is the co-chief executive of KKR, a private equity firm.

The letter was also signed by George H. Walker, the chief executive of the money manager Neuberger Berman and a second cousin to President George W. Bush, and Jeff T. Blau, the chief executive of one of New York City’s largest private developers, the Related Companies, who has been a major donor to the National Republican Senatorial Committee, filings show.

The move was one of many signs that Mr. Trump is losing support. On Monday, General Motors said that it would abandon Mr. Trump’s battle to nullify California’s fuel economy rules meant to curb global warming, and more than 100 prominent national security experts who are Republicans or served in Republican administrations implored G.O.P. members of Congress to demand that Mr. Trump concede and allow the transition to begin.

As a way of gaining leverage over the G.O.P., some of the corporate executives who signed on to the joint letter Monday have also discussed withholding campaign donations from the two Republican Senate candidates in Georgia unless party leaders agree to push for a presidential transition, according to four people who participated in a conference call Friday in which the notion was discussed. The two runoff elections in Georgia, which will take place in early January, will determine the balance of power in the United States Senate.

In the letter sent Monday, the business leaders demanded that Emily W. Murphy, head of the General Services Administration, issue a letter of ascertainment affirming that Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris had won the election. Ms. Murphy has so far resisted calls to begin the normal transition planning, which includes providing resources and money to an incoming administration as it prepares to take control.

“Every day that an orderly presidential transition process is delayed, our democracy grows weaker in the eyes of our own citizens and the nation’s stature on the global stage is diminished,” the executives wrote in the letter, which was obtained by The New York Times. “Withholding resources and vital information from an incoming administration puts the public and economic health and security of America at risk.”

The initiative comes as Mr. Trump has refused to acknowledge Mr. Biden as the winner, subverted the nation’s electoral process with unfounded claims of fraud, and put pressure on state Republicans to try to impede certification of the results.

The Friday evening executive call, which included a group of about a dozen business leaders, was preceded by a meeting of Democratic state attorneys general that took place on Thursday evening, in which participants discussed what they could do to ensure an orderly transition. In the wake of that, New York’s attorney general, Letitia James, was asked to approach business leaders in her jurisdiction about the possibility of pushing the stalled transition into motion.

“She said they asked her to reach out to the New York business community,” Kathryn Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, said of Ms. James. Ms. Wylde took part in a call the next evening with Ms. James and the executives, who were donors to both political parties.

Ms. Wylde said Ms. James told the group that the attorneys general “thought that the New York business community” would “have influence in convincing Republicans around the country that this should be over, that the transition should be acknowledged, and that it was a frightening proposition that this would remain unresolved.”

Ms. James, in a statement Sunday night, said, “This isn’t about partisan politics, but about protecting our democracy.”

“Without the rule of law and an orderly transfer of power, everything from commerce to health care delivery to national security is in peril, and our business leaders can see that as clearly as the rest of us,” she added.

Among the topics that came up on the call, according to participants, was the idea of withholding support from Senators Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, both Republicans, who are running for re-election in Georgia, until the presidential transition is underway.

At least one participant, Rob Speyer, the chief executive of Tishman Speyer, suggested that some wealthy donors had already been considering withholding support, according to four people with knowledge of his comments.

(Mr. Speyer, a registered independent, is largely a Democratic donor, while his father, Jerry Speyer, is largely a Republican donor.)

Business leaders, along with a number of other Americans, are increasingly worried that delays in the typical transition planning will exacerbate the pandemic and slow plans to roll out vaccines.

Mr. Schwarzman, in his statement, said: “I supported President Trump and the strong economic path he built. Like many in the business community, I am now ready to help President-elect Biden and his team as they confront the significant challenges of rebuilding our post-Covid economy.”

The Partnership for New York City, which focuses on economic growth in the metropolitan area, has spent much of the year helping its members navigate the health and economic challenges of the pandemic. 

“We urge respect for the democratic process and unified support for our duly elected leadership,” the group said in its letter. “There is not a moment to waste in the battle against the pandemic and for the recovery and healing of our nation to begin.”





No.17 article:
In Canada, a Push to Keep Schools Open in Second Lockdown

Like many places in Europe — and in contrast to New York and other big American cities — school districts in Canada’s largest province and many elsewhere are finding in-class learning outweighs the risks.

TORONTO — Most stores were shut. Barber shops and salons shuttered. Restaurants and bars — including the outdoor seating where hardy souls had braved meals under heat lamps — were banned. Gyms, pools, even the beloved hockey arenas were closed in the strictest shutdown Toronto has confronted since the pandemic’s first wave last spring.

Except for the schools.

Facing a resurgence of coronavirus infections, Toronto, the fourth largest city in North America, retreated back into lockdown on Monday, along with two booming suburbs. But in contrast to New York and other big American cities, officials are finding it more beneficial to keep schools open.

“We cannot put in-class learning at risk,” Ontario’s premier, Doug Ford, who is ordinarily an advocate for business, said last Friday when announcing the closures. Along with trying to avoid overwhelming the hospitals and to protect the elderly in long-term care homes, Mr. Ford said, schools were “what matters most.”

 Mr. Ford’s announcement illustrated how Canada has followed the lead of much of Europe, prioritizing the opening or reopening of schools, while just across the border many U.S. states have focused on keeping businesses such as bars, restaurants and gyms at least partially open.

Since schools resumed classes in September across Canada after, in some cases, many months of remote learning, there has been strong enthusiasm to keep them open.

In most places there are no official thresholds for shutting schools down and there is little appetite to do so, according to Ahmed Al-Jaishi, an epidemiologist who is part of an academic team compiling school outbreaks across the country. And, despite fears among parents that students would bring the disease home and among teachers that they would get infected in large numbers, such outcomes have been rare.

“The good news is that we’re not seeing much evidence of transmission within the schools,” said Dr. Barbara Yaffe, Ontario’s associate medical officer of health.

Even so, a significant minority of parents in Toronto, at least, have been reluctant to allow their children to return to in-class learning, particularly now, as the city is seeing the greatest surge of the virus since it arrived. Last week the city reported a 6.2 percent positive test rate — meaning that for every 1,000 people tested, 62 are infected. That is more than double the 3 percent positive test rate in New York that triggered school shutdowns last week.

“We expect staff and students to be contagious, and come to school with infections. But the measures we have in schools have so far been effective at preventing the additional spread,” said Dr. Vinita Dubey, Toronto’s associate medical officer of health.

Most schools across the country shut in March, when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau asked Canadians to stay home and closed the border. In many cases, the schools didn’t reopen until September, after months of parental complaints, children falling behind in schoolwork and rising concerns about the effects of social isolation.

By then, the chorus of concern was met by growing scientific evidence that time outside of school was more dangerous to children than the risk of going back into classrooms.

A report by Toronto’s Hospital for Sick Children released this summer called for a full return to school, stating that while children under 10 were less susceptible to the virus and less likely to pass it onto others, they were already reporting increased rates of depression and anxiety. Experts said they believed that substance abuse and suicidal behavior went up as well.

That was followed by a study in August, published in the Canadian Journal of Public Health, detailing a sobering list of long-term effects on young children who miss school, from less-developed cognitive skills and higher incidences of teen pregnancy to lower employment rates and higher arrest rates.

“You can close restaurants and bars and give financial handouts so they can reopen at a later date,” said Dr. Michael Silverman, the chair of Infectious Diseases at Western University’s School of Medicine &amp; Dentistry in London, Ontario, who co-authored that report.

“What kind of financial handout can you give to a kid for the long-term cognitive development impacts, to make up for it?”

He added, “Schools should be the very last thing to close.”

As a vast country with strong regional governments, back-to-school plans in September varied nationwide. For instance, in Quebec all elementary and high school students were required to attend classes in person, with masks required for grade 5 and up. In Alberta, children could return to school physically, or continue to attend online.

In the largest province, Ontario, masked high school students attend smaller classes in person, but only every other day — and often for just a few hours. Meanwhile, younger students are crowded into classes with no additional spacing between desks and, in some cases, no mandatory masks. That prompted protests and petitions by students and parents, criticism by epidemiologists and other experts, and a court case launched by four teachers’ unions, who were concerned their members would be put at risk. Newspapers carried stories about parents creating private education pods, and many feared schools would be shut down again by Thanksgiving.

Instead, currently, only two schools in the entire province are closed due to Covid-19, according to Caitlin Clark, the Minister of Education’s spokeswoman.

“As of today in Ontario — 99.85 percent of the province’s students and 99.75 percent of staff have never had a case of COVID-19, which underpins why schools remain open for learning,” Ms. Clark said in an email.

However, when schools opened in Toronto in September, about 30 percent of elementary students and 22 percent of secondary students in the public school system decided to attend virtually. Since then, those numbers have substantially risen, indicating persistent parental fears despite the expert assurances.

“There’s a reason why a very large percentage of parents and guardians chose not to have their kids in schools,” said Charles Pascal, a professor of applied psychology and human development at the University of Toronto and a former deputy minister of education in Ontario. “That’s the best evidence the school reopening in Ontario was a disaster — mainly because their parents were concerned the safety precautions were not enough.”





No.18 article:
Nail Salons, Lifeline for Immigrants, Have Lost Half Their Business

New York City nail salons reopened in July, but few customers come in. “No matter how hard I work, I make no money,” one owner said.

On most days, Juyoung Lee is the only person inside Beverly Nail Studio, the salon that she owns in Flushing, Queens. It is often eerily quiet, and when no customers come by, Ms. Lee at times sits at her work station and weeps.

“Maybe, just maybe, tomorrow will be busy,” she said. “I’m waiting.”

Like nail salons across New York City, her business had to close when the pandemic hit in March. There was a brief surge in demand after the lockdown was lifted in July, but then appointments started dwindling. Often, customers requested cheaper services. Now, they hardly come at all.

The beauty industry in the city seemed well positioned to bounce back after restrictions ended. After all, many customers had spent months without professional grooming. But now, many of these businesses are on the verge of collapse — a drastic hit for an industry that is an economic engine for immigrant women.

Some nail salons have had a difficult time persuading customers that it is safe to come in. Others, especially those in Manhattan business districts, have yet to see regular customers come back because many of them had left the city or are working from home.

With 26 years of nail salon experience and 20 years of savings poured into her own business, Ms. Lee, 53, said there was nothing else that she can imagine doing. But she’s barely staying afloat.

“Even though it was hard before, I was always able to pay the bills. But now, no matter how hard I work, I make no money,” she said.

Nail salon visits in the state have dropped by more than 50 percent, and sales have fallen by more than 40 percent, according to an October survey of 161 salon owners conducted by the Nail Industry Federation of New York.

The New York Nail Salon Workers Association, an advocacy group affiliated with the union Workers United, said less than half of 594 workers surveyed had returned to work as of August. In New York City, there were 4,240 nail salons in 2016, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Three percent of the country’s nail salons are in Brooklyn, and 2 percent are in Queens.

“The work force is primarily immigrant workers living paycheck to paycheck, supporting children and in many cases sick and aging family members in their own countries,” said Luis Gomez, the association’s organizing director. “Add the recession and the effects of the pandemic on top, and we anticipate that many workers will fall even deeper into poverty.”

In Queens, Rambika Ulak KC, 50, said she had so much business shortly after reopening in July that she hired back all 10 of her employees part-time. But now, she sees only about four customers a day.

Ms. Ulak dropped out of college in Nepal to come to the United States. When she developed carpal tunnel from giving manicures or was berated by customers frustrated by her poor English, she would fix her eyes on the photos of her daughter taped to the wall. Now, as her business erodes, she finds herself looking back at the photos even more often.

“That’s why I work so hard,” Ms. Ulak said. “So I can tell her, ‘Don’t think of my future, just be happy and focus on your studies.’”

Salons were able to reopen in July at 50 percent capacity, with waiting rooms banned and walk-ins discouraged.

While indoor services pose more risks for virus transmission, Dr. Joshua Zeichner, director of cosmetic and clinical research at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, said that if everyone wears masks and customers are properly social distancing, they’re “somewhat safer than with indoor dining.”

Still, many industry leaders worry that salons won’t be able to win back customers’ full confidence and subsequently recover until a vaccine is in wide use.

Eighty-one percent of the national nail salon work force are women while 79 percent are foreign-born, according to a 2018 report conducted by the U.C.L.A. Labor Center.

Older women may have less career flexibility should the industry continue to crater, said Prarthana Gurung, campaign manager at Adhikaar, a Nepali work center that assists nearly 1,300 Nepali-speaking salon workers in New York City.

“There is a subset of women who’ve been in the nail salon industry for decades, and this is it regardless of what happens,” Ms. Gurung said.

Hannah Lee, 60, is one of those women: Since she arrived in the United States, she has worked only in nail salons. Ms. Lee reluctantly left South Korea after her husband persuaded her there would be better jobs here, she said.

Though she missed South Korea, she didn’t complain — as a salon worker, Ms. Lee learned English on the job, saved enough to put her son through college and always paid her rent on time.

Even now, Ms. Lee recognizes she is lucky to be hired back at salons in Queens and Manhattan, where she worked before the pandemic. But she said both salons rarely have any customers these days. She often receives only a few dollars in tips, sometimes nothing at all.

Her pay plummeted from $1,000 per week to $300. She’s behind on rent and is barely able to afford groceries, she said. But she said she refused to look into other industries and is on the hunt for a third nail salon gig despite her worries about her health.

“I just want to feel comfortable with my life. I don’t want anxiety when I go to work about whether customers will come today or not, whether I will get the virus today or not,” she said in Korean.

In Jackson Heights, Queens, Mariwvey Ramirez, 38, recently went back to work after being furloughed for a second time at the Rego Park salon where she worked because of the neighborhood closures.

The first time, back in March, was financially devastating for Ms. Ramirez, who is undocumented and therefore ineligible to collect unemployment. Even now, Ms. Ramirez, a single mother, was only hired back part time. Her wages went from $700 a week to $400.

Ms. Ramirez moved to the United States from Mexico 18 years ago to be with her brother, who moved to the country first, and worked in the salon industry for 17 years.

“I don’t know how to do anything else, for all these years, I worked in nail salons — really my whole life,” she said in Spanish.

The only silver lining has been that now that she has free time, she has enrolled in a class to learn English — in part to broaden her job opportunities, but mostly to advance in the nail salon industry once the pandemic subsides.

Juyoung Lee, the owner of the Beverly Nail Studio, moved from South Korea to New York City 30 years ago. When she arrived, she could only find work in the dry cleaning, garment and nail salon industries because of her limited English.

She first landed a job at a sewing factory, but a few years later, it closed down. She tried her luck in the nail business, saving up for more than two decades to open up her own salon.

When Ms. Lee first toured the vacant storefront that would become her salon in 2014, the real estate agent told her he couldn’t imagine the worn-down space turning into a nail shop, she recalled. But Ms. Lee could see it — the pink walls, a row of plush pedicure chairs, a collection of nail polish in every conceivable color.

“This was my dream,” Ms. Lee said. “Really, this is every employee’s dream to open up their own salon.”





No.19 article:
‘I Forget About the World:’ Afghan Youth Find Escape in a Video Game

The game’s cultlike following in Afghanistan inhabits a real-life version of its violent virtual reality.

KABUL, Afghanistan — Rifle fire, hurried footsteps and distant explosions. The rat-a-tat of a firefight. Cars mangled from grenades. The young man was transfixed.

It could have been any day in Kabul, where targeted assassinations, terrorist attacks and wanton violence have become routine, and the city often feels as if it is under siege. But for Safiullah Sharifi, his behind firmly planted on a dusty stoop in the Qala-e Fatullah neighborhood, the death and destruction unfurled on his phone, held landscape-style in his hands.

“On Friday I play from early morning to around 4 p.m.,” said Mr. Sharifi, 20, with a sly grin, as if he knew he was detailing the outline of an addiction to a passer-by. His left hand is tattooed with a skull in a jester’s hat, a grim image offset by his lanky and not-quite-old-enough demeanor. “Almost every night, it’s 8 p.m. to 3 a.m.”

The game is called PlayerUnknown Battlegrounds, but to its millions of players worldwide, no matter the language, it’s referred to as PUBG (pronounced pub-gee). It’s violent. And it’s becoming widely played across Afghanistan, almost as an escape from reality as the 19-year-old war grinds on.

In the game, the player drops onto a large piece of terrain, finds weapons and equipment and kills everyone, all of whom are other people playing the game against each other. Victory translates to being the last person or team standing. Which makes its growing popularity in Afghanistan peculiar since that can eerily almost describe the state of the war — despite ongoing peace negotiations in Qatar.

Even as ending that war seems ever more elusive, Afghan lawmakers are trying to ban PUBG, arguing that it promotes violence and distracts the young from their schoolwork.

But Mr. Sharifi laughed at the mention of the proposed ban, knowing he could circumvent it easily with software on his phone.

He said he uses the game to communicate with friends and sometimes talks to girls who also play it. That is a remarkable feat on its own since only in the last several years have Afghanistan’s cell networks become capable of delivering the kind of data needed to play a game like PUBG, let alone communicate with people concurrently.

Gaming centers became popular in Kabul in the years after the 2001 United States invasion, which reversed the Taliban’s ban on entertainment including video games and music. But PUBG and other mobile games are usurping these staples because they are downloadable on a smartphone, and free, in a country where 90 percent of the population lives below the poverty line.

Sometimes, players pay a local vendor to download the game, a workaround to avoid taxing limited and sometimes expensive data plans for phones. That costs as little as 60 cents.

Abdul Habib, 27, runs a video gaming den in West Kabul that features mostly soccer games. It’s a closet-size room on the lower floor of a shopping center, with TVs, couches and Playstations.

There are other gaming dens in the shopping center, separated by doorways and different owners, but connected by neon lights and a dimly lit atrium where youths scurry back and forth looking for couch space and controllers. A snack stand sells sausage sandwiches.

“If you can’t fight in the real war, you can do it virtually,” Mr. Habib said of violent video games, including PUBG.

Mr. Habib has rented his den for four years; usually about 100 people a day come through. The mix of children, teenagers, parents and assorted adults pay around 65 cents to play for an hour. But his business was hit hard in the first months of the coronavirus pandemic when he — and dozens of other Kabul gaming dens — shut down for two months. That’s when the fixation on PUBG took off.

Now its popularity is cutting into Mr. Habib’s business and that of others in the industry.

Abdullah Popalzai, 20, has his own game center across the street from Mr. Sharifi’s house. It’s a little shop, with garage-roller doors, a generator, four TVs, four Playstations and an aging foosball table.

“I used to earn 800 afs a day,” Mr. Popalzai said. That is about $10. “Now I barely have enough to get bread and food for the family.”

Mohammad Ali sees PUBG as an escape. Leaning outside Mr. Habib’s den, Mr. Ali, 23, pointed to the headphones around his neck, bought specifically to play PUBG so he can disappear in the game with his friends.

“I get so busy with the game I forget about the world,” he said. “It distracts me from the city, the attacks, the robberies, the thieves and the crime.”

The website PlayerCounter puts PUBG’s total at around 400 million players worldwide since its release in 2017, on phones, computers and video game consoles. But aside from anecdotal evidence, it’s hard to say how many Afghans play. The game’s developer did not respond to an inquiry regarding the number of players in the country.

Anticipating a possible ban of the game by the Afghan government, a major cellphone provider tried to figure out how much its network would be affected.

The company, said one official, restricted access to the game just after midnight one day, and subsequently lost 50 percent of its network’s data traffic. The official reckoned that more than 100,000 people were playing the game across the country at the time.

PUBG is not the first form of entertainment to draw ire from the Afghan government. In 2008 several Turkish soap operas were taken off air because they did not align with “Afghan religion and culture.”

Wedged between the once oppressive Taliban regime of the 1990s and the growth of the internet and social media in the 21st century, Afghanistan’s government has long walked a thin line — trying to balance its religiously conservative population with democratic freedoms.

For Mohammad Akbar Sultanzada, the chairman of the Afghan Parliament’s Transportation and Telecommunications Commission, the problem with PUBG is not just its violence. He said it has also invaded the country’s already strained, frequently threatened and understaffed classrooms. PUBG was banned in Iraq last year for similar reasons.

“It can be really negative for children’s mental health,” said Freshta Karim, the director of Charmaghz, a Kabul nonprofit, and a local education activist. “I feel like it encourages and normalizes violence and makes them a part of it.”

Outside influences, including in education, are often disparaged among Afghans but high levels of illiteracy have left the population vulnerable to just that. In the 1980s, the United States distributed millions of textbooks to Afghan children that promoted violence through text and images that featured talks of jihad and weapons of war as ways to help learn the alphabet and basic math.

But PUBG is not handed out in classrooms; it’s played under desks and in courtyards and when some children skip school, on street corners. If the game is banned, many people say, they will just turn to virtual private networks and keep playing.

“If they don’t want people to be violent,” said Mr. Habib, the owner of the video gaming den, “they should stop the war on the battlefield.”





No.20 article:
Covid-19 Data Is a Mess. We Need a Way to Make Sense of It.

The government needs stringent standards for how states report Covid-19 testing.

The United States is more than eight months into the pandemic and people are back waiting in long lines to be tested as coronavirus infections surge again. And yet there is still no federal standard to ensure testing results are being uniformly reported. Without uniform results, it is impossible to track cases accurately or respond effectively.

We test to identify coronavirus infections in communities. We can tell if we are casting a wide enough net by looking at test positivity — the percentage of people whose results are positive for the virus. The metric tells us whether we are testing enough or if the transmission of the virus is outpacing our efforts to slow it.

If the percentage of tests coming back positive is low, it gives us more confidence that we are not missing a lot of infections. It can also tell us whether a recent surge in cases may be a result of increased testing, as President Trump has asserted, or that cases are rising faster than the rate at which communities are able to test.

But to interpret these results properly, we need a national standard for how these results are reported publicly by each state. And although the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issue protocols for how to report new cases and deaths, there is no uniform guideline for states to report testing results, which would tell us about the universe of people tested so we know we are doing enough testing to track the disease. (Even the C.D.C. was found in May to be reporting states’ results in a way that presented a misleading picture of the pandemic.)

Without a standard, states are deciding how to calculate positivity rates on their own — and their approaches are very different.

Some states include results from positive antigen-based tests, some states don’t. Some report the number of people tested, while others report only the number of tests administered, which can skew the overall results when people are tested repeatedly (as, say, at colleges and nursing homes).

At one point in the spring, Texas, Virginia and Vermont were accused of reporting their data so that it inflated the scale of their testing programs and made it impossible to determine how many active infections they were probably missing. The problem has since been corrected.

Only seven states and the District of Columbia report testing data by race and ethnicity — indicators that can often point to virus trouble spots in some of the nation’s poorest communities. Many states have also changed how and when they report their testing data. This has led to wild swings in reported test positivities that have nothing to do with the virus’s spread.

Last week, the governor of New York and the mayor of New York City disagreed on whether a threshold of 3 percent positivity had been breached in the city. The mayor said it had and closed the schools; the governor said it had not. “The cause of the discrepancy,” according to The Times, lay “in both the tests that are included and the time frame in which statistics are reported.” This inconsistency can be the difference between shutting down schools and indoor dining, for instance, or not.

Inconsistent data also limits how reliably positivity can serve as an early warning about demand for hospital beds and medical equipment. Making informed comparisons between states requires having similar data to compare.

Without a federal standard, the data also becomes more susceptible to political influence. By deciding how many tests to offer and prioritizing certain groups for testing, local officials can artificially slow rising positivity rates. Recently, suspicions were raised among public health officials in New York when skyrocketing positivity in one community suddenly reversed course.

Covid-19 is surging and hospital capacity is again being stretched. Disparities are deepening, with Black and Latino patients more likely to be hospitalized and die from Covid-19. Since May, our institution, Johns Hopkins, has generated state-by-state positivity calculations, and it is clear to us that the lack of reporting standards for testing data is hindering the U.S. response to the virus.

This is inexcusable. As the pandemic accelerates to new levels of transmission every day, we urgently need a federal standard to guide testing and inform public health responses. That’s the reason we test and track the results in the first place.





No.21 article:
N.B.A. Players Meet With Pope Francis on Social Justice Efforts

The players and officials from their union were invited last week to discuss their campaign at the Vatican.

A delegation of five N.B.A. players and officials from the players association met privately with Pope Francis at the Vatican on Monday to discuss their efforts toward addressing social justice and economic inequality.

The visit came after the Vatican extended an invitation to the players’ union, saying the pope wanted to learn more about their activities. Michele Roberts, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, joined Kyle Korver, Sterling Brown, Anthony Tolliver, Marco Belinelli and Jonathan Isaac, players who are all active in the union, at the meeting.

“I thought it was a fraud email that I got,” Korver, who plays for the Milwaukee Bucks, said. “I called Michele right away. I was like, ‘Is this for real?’ She said, ‘Yes, it is and would you like to come in like two days?’ This came together really quick.”

After the 30-minute meeting, the players and officials still appeared stunned as they talked about it on video calls with reporters. “I’m still not even sure if this really happened,” Roberts said. The players took turns addressing the pope and offered him a book documenting many of their community and social initiatives in the last few months as well as jerseys and a Black Lives Matter T-shirt.

“He said sport is such an opportunity to unify, and he compared it to a team, where you have a common goal and you’re working together, but you all use your own personalities,” Korver said.

For the players, the meeting provided an opportunity to expand global awareness of the efforts to promote social justice after the deaths of several Black Americans at the hands of the police, including George Floyd in Minnesota, and the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Wisconsin.

Brown and Korver were members of the Bucks team that initiated a work stoppage throughout sports in August. Confined inside the N.B.A.’s so-called bubble environment near Orlando, Fla., Bucks players refused to take part in a scheduled playoff game after the shooting of Blake in Kenosha, Wis. Their protest quickly spread to other teams and other sports, forcing the postponement of games in the W.N.B.A., Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer.

Most N.B.A. players during the season wore league-authorized messages on the back of their jerseys, while the courts featured Black Lives Matter wording. The majority of players and coaches knelt during the national anthem before games.

Isaac, a member of the Orlando Magic and an ordained minister, elected to stand. “My heart is, I believe, that it’s in a place of love,” Isaac said of what he shared with the pope. 

In June, Pope Francis said he had watched the social unrest enveloping the United States with “great concern.”

After 35 years of deeply conservative pontificates who focused on doctrine and social issues such as abortion, Pope Francis, a Jesuit, has sought since his election in 2013 to shift the emphasis of the church toward addressing issues of social justice, such as poverty, migration and equality.

In his October encyclical, titled “Brothers All,” a reflection on fraternity and social friendship, the pope wrote that “a readiness to discard others finds expression in vicious attitudes that we thought long past, such as racism, which retreats underground only to keep re-emerging. Instances of racism continue to shame us, for they show that our supposed social progress is not as real or definitive as we think.”

He added, “Racism is a virus that quickly mutates and, instead of disappearing, goes into hiding, and lurks in waiting.”

Brown recently settled a civil rights lawsuit against the city of Milwaukee and its police department for $750,000, citing police brutality during a 2018 incident over a parking violation.

The agreement included an admission of a constitutional violation by the city and commitment to procedural changes by the police department.

Brown said he wished the meeting with Pope Francis had lasted longer. He spoke about the Bucks’ protest and Blake’s shooting more than his personal experience with police brutality.

“Nobody gets to do this from where I’m from, barely get to do it from the United States,” Brown said. “For me to be one of them, I can definitely take this and hold this and let people know I’m out here doing this to make a change, to actually get things put on other people’s minds that have influence, to a degree.”

Belinelli, a member of the San Antonio Spurs, was the only player able to speak in Italian to the pope. 

More players had expressed interest in making the trip but could not because of the complications of travel in the pandemic and the holiday week. Free agency is also continuing. Training camps begin next week. “If we had more time, I would have 50 guys,” Roberts said.

The traveling party underwent a diagnostic test for the new coronavirus within 72 hours of leaving for Rome. The players had also been tested frequently in their home markets and, other than Belinelli, who was in Italy, traveled on a chartered flight. All will be retested once back in the United States.

Pictures of the meeting showed the group and Francis without masks; the pontiff, who sat at a distance, has been known to forgo them in indoor meetings. The players had masks on by the time they were taking video calls.

The players who attended described the decision to meet the pope as an easy one. “You say pope and being able to fly to Rome, this is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, so why not take it?” said Isaac, who paused his rehabilitation from a torn A.C.L. to take part, while Brown agreed to a free-agent deal with the Houston Rockets only a few hours before departing.

“This visit is the kind of thing that gives you, I believe, the sense of confirmation that the work that you’re doing is making a difference,” Roberts said. “The confirmation comes from someone whose life is spent giving of himself to others, saying what you’re doing is exactly what you should be doing and I encourage you to keep doing it.”

Pope Francis is a noted fan of San Lorenzo de Almagro, a top-division soccer club.

He discussed sports in terms of discipleship, Korver said, a way of modeling behavior and leading others. “It’s this beautiful opportunity that it provides, and he really encouraged us to just humbly walk into that,” he added.

Tolliver described Pope Francis as “super chill.”

“He was actually way more relaxed than I’d ever imagine a pope being,” he said, adding that he did some reading on Francis before the trip. He said the pope told the players about how he used to love watching the Harlem Globetrotters and even flashed a sense of humor.

“And you know, when the pope makes a halfway joke, it’s the funniest thing ever, right?” Tolliver said. “So when I say making jokes, anything that was supposed to be remotely funny, we made sure we gave him a good laugh.”





No.22 article:
After Chaotic 4 Years, Wall St. Is Itching to Unfollow @realDonaldTrump

President Trump turned his Twitter feed into a singular source of market volatility. Now, investors are looking forward to markets free of presidential tweets.

In the closing weeks of the presidential campaign, President Trump began telling his supporters that if former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was elected, market mayhem would follow.

“If Biden wins,” he told a cheering crowd at an airport near Reading, Pa., on Halloween, “you’re going to have a stock market collapse the likes of which you never had.”

That didn’t happen. Instead, the stock market has notched new record highs since Mr. Biden emerged as the winner, as investors celebrated both the prospect of an end to election-year political uncertainty as well as progress on Covid-19 vaccines. And as Inauguration Day approaches, Mr. Trump’s grip on the collective psyche of investors appears to be receding, too.

Investors of all political persuasions say they are ready to turn the page on what was a profitable but extraordinarily politicized and stressful period for the financial markets, where they had to contend with an unpredictable force whose pronouncements frequently moved stock prices. For the most part, investors supported Trump administration policies; it was the president’s unpredictable tweeting they found hard to stomach. In the past four years, Mr. Trump used his bully pulpit to praise and berate companies, escalate a trade war with China and signal the economy’s strengths ahead of official announcements. In the process, his Twitter account became a singular source of market volatility.

“I just want my life to go back to normal,” said Barry Ritholtz, a money manager in New York who did not vote for Mr. Trump. “And I don’t mean pre-pandemic normal. I mean pre-golden-escalator-to-hell normal,” he said — a reference to Mr. Trump’s famous 2015 ride down the escalator in Trump Tower, at the end of which he announced his candidacy. “I just want the noise level to quiet down.”

The weekend Mr. Biden became president-elect, Mr. Ritholtz went to Twitter with one goal in mind: unfollow as many accounts in the Trump orbit as possible. In recent years, Mr. Ritholtz’s Twitter timeline had grown crowded with accounts — such as those of Mr. Trump’s children or press officers — that he felt he had no choice but to follow as he managed roughly $1.7 billion in client assets.

U.S. presidents and political leaders don’t often train their focus on individual companies — at least in public. In 1962, concerned about rising inflation, President John F. Kennedy publicly excoriated steel executives for planned price increases. At a news conference in which he singled out U.S. Steel by name, President Kennedy said those executives showed “utter contempt” for the American public. The episode, which was followed by threats of antitrust investigations of the industry, spooked investors and helped set off a significant market slump.

But in recent decades, even as stock ownership became much more widespread, presidents such as Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton — who both presided over booming stock markets — shied away from direct commentary on companies or markets. Probably, they calculated that the political reward of closely associating themselves with a bull market wasn’t worth the risk of being blamed for a potential bust that could — and in both cases did — come.

Not Mr. Trump. Almost from the moment he was elected, he adopted the stock market as a kind of real-time, multitrillion-dollar barometer of his own performance. Since taking office, he has sent tweets or retweets with stock market references more than 200 times, and made scores of statements spotlighting the market’s rise under his administration.

“Broke all time Stock Market Record again today,” he wrote on Twitter last December. “135 times since my 2016 Election Win. Thank you!”

When stocks have slumped, the president publicly framed falling prices as the work of those he considers political opponents, including the Federal Reserve, congressional Democrats and the news media. He has publicly threatened and castigated major American companies, facing off with Amazon.com over its tax payments and deals with the U.S. Postal Service; with General Motors, Ford and Carrier — then a subsidiary of United Technologies — over plans to shutter plants; and with Lockheed Martin and Boeing over the costs of fighter jets and replacements for Air Force One.

Mr. Trump has disclosed market-moving information after private discussions with executives and appeared to hint at upside surprises from economic data that his office was privy to. He has demanded that the Fed cut interest rates to prop up the market. He has treated serious policy developments — such as the twists and turns of his trade war with China — with his typical flair for showmanship, unveiling his changing positions in a hail of unexpected tweets that sent share prices tumbling on multiple occasions. 

“He is very much an outlier in terms of his focus on the stock market,” said B. Dan Wood, a professor of political science at Texas A&amp;M University, who has compiled a database of presidential statements on the economy. “I think no former president and likely no future president will emphasize the stock market as much as Trump has,” he said.

Mr. Trump’s focus on the stock market prompted Wall Street’s money managers, bankers, analysts, investment advisers and other professionals — who usually rank day-to-day political developments low on the ladder of market-moving concerns — to follow the president’s missives on Twitter, either by joining the platform or getting briefed on it regularly.

“There was just so much more material in this administration,” said Kristina Hooper, chief global market strategist at investment management firm Invesco, who has been watching financial markets since 1995. “We just didn’t hear as much from past presidents.”

The ride was rocky from the start. On the night Mr. Trump won in 2016, stock futures plunged 5 percent, as investors unwound bets premised on a Hillary Clinton presidency. But it didn’t take long for a rebound; once investors recovered from the shock of his victory, they saw that unified Republican control in Washington all but assured a giant tax cut for corporations and wealthy individuals.

The S&amp;P 500 climbed 19.4 percent in 2017, with President Trump signing the long-awaited tax cuts into law in December. Most analysts cite the tax cut as the administration’s strongest credible claim to credit for the rise in stocks.

But by early 2018, Mr. Trump’s approach to policymaking was having a far different impact. Markets consistently slipped after Mr. Trump began to ratchet up talk of higher tariffs on global trading partners such as China and Europe. Stocks slipped 10 percent in that year’s first quarter, and fell nearly 20 percent in the fourth quarter.

On several occasions, Twitter messages from the president himself tipped a previously positive market into significant declines. On Dec. 4, 2018, stocks tumbled more than 3 percent after Mr. Trump declared himself a “Tariff man” — just two days after American and Chinese officials negotiated a truce in the trade war between the two countries.

Throughout 2019, sporadic Twitter messages from Mr. Trump about the trade war continued to rattle investors, even though the market gained 29 percent over the year as the Federal Reserve abandoned plans to raise interest rates.

Even in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic this year, the president’s messages on Twitter continued to unsettle investors. For instance, on Oct. 6, when he abruptly announced on Twitter that he was pulling out of negotiations for a fiscal stimulus with congressional Democrats, stocks swung to a loss.

Over all, stock investors have done well during Mr. Trump’s four-year term, even though there’s significant debate about whether the market’s strong performance has come because of or despite his presence. Including dividend payments, investors that own the S&amp;P 500 stock index are up more than 70 percent between Election Day in 2016 and Nov. 3, when Mr. Trump was defeated.

The answer is likely both. The uncertainty and market shocks that came from his freewheeling approach to making and announcing policies may have been a headwind for stocks, but his steep tax cuts almost certainly were a boon to markets.

“The stock market would have been even stronger if he wasn’t in a trade war with China,” said Jason DeSena Trennert, chief investment strategist at Strategas Research Partners and a supporter of President Trump. “But otherwise, I think it’s hard not to give him a lot of credit for the market.”

And while professionals debate the direct impact of Mr. Trump’s extraordinary relationship with markets, his outsize presence has increasingly linked politics and markets in the minds of everyday investors. “Clients, for sure, have brought up politics more in the last four years than in the previous 30 years of my career,” said Paul Schatz, who manages roughly $90 million in assets for clients largely in New York, Connecticut and Florida.

But now, as the country prepares for the transition to a Biden administration, investors almost certainly won’t have to worry about an out-of-the-blue tweet from the president toppling the markets. Although some worry that Mr. Trump could have more market-moving surprises up his sleeve before he leaves town, others expect that the markets will feel very different come Jan. 20.

“I think investors, market watchers might get a little bored,” Ms. Hooper, of Invesco, said of a Biden presidency. “I don’t know if they’ll complain. But they might get a little bored.”





No.23 article:
AstraZeneca’s Coronavirus Vaccine, Easy and Cheap to Produce, Appears Effective

In an early analysis, the drug maker zeroed in on a promising dosing plan for its vaccine.

AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford announced on Monday that their inexpensive, easy-to-produce coronavirus vaccine appears effective, the latest in a string of encouraging results this month from leading vaccine developers.

An early analysis of data from late-stage clinical trials found that AstraZeneca’s vaccine was either 62 percent or 90 percent effective, depending on the manner in which the doses were given.

While the overall efficacy of the vaccine remains unclear, the encouraging preliminary results indicate that it has the potential to become a powerful new weapon in the war on the pandemic, which has killed more than 1.3 million people worldwide since January and is still spreading rapidly.

AstraZeneca said it expected to begin distributing the vaccine this year and that it would be able to make up to three billion doses next year. At two doses per person, that would be enough to inoculate nearly one in five people worldwide.

Unlike some other leading vaccine candidates, the AstraZeneca offering can be quickly produced in vast quantities, will cost only a few dollars per dose and is easy to store for long periods. That could substantially expand the number of countries and people that have access to the vaccine.

AstraZeneca’s announcement came on the heels of Pfizer and Moderna’s releasing trial results that showed their vaccines to both be about 95 percent effective. Those vaccines, however, can only be kept outside of ultracold freezers for a few weeks, making their distribution and storage more challenging.

The price of AstraZeneca’s shot, at $3 to $4, is a fraction of the cost of some other vaccines. AstraZeneca has pledged to make it available at cost around the world until at least July 2021 and in poorer countries in perpetuity.

The varying effectiveness of AstraZeneca’s vaccine reflected differences in how doses were administered in the late-stage trials. In the dosing plan that was 90 percent effective, study participants were given a half-dose of the vaccine and then, a month later, a full dose. The vaccine was less effective when people were given a standard full dose upfront, followed a month later by another full dose. On average, the vaccine was 70 percent effective.

The analysis, which looked at data from participants in Britain and Brazil, did not turn up any serious safety issues that were confirmed to be related to the vaccine. It had come under global scrutiny after AstraZeneca temporarily paused its trials in September after a participant in Britain developed a neurological illness.

Oxford and AstraZeneca said they would submit the trial data to regulators in Britain, the European Union and Brazil and would seek emergency authorization to start distributing the vaccine in those places. British and European Union regulators have been conducting so-called rolling reviews of the vaccine, which could hasten the authorization process.

The path toward the vaccine being available in the United States is less clear. Because clinical trials in the United States were paused more than a month, longer than in Britain and several other countries, the U.S. results are not expected until next year. And AstraZeneca has not been testing the more-effective half-dose regimen in its U.S. trials. The company said it would work with the Food and Drug Administration to add it as quickly as possible to its ongoing trial.

In the meantime, AstraZeneca said, it will share its latest British and Brazilian trial data with the F.D.A. this week. The company is seeking guidance on whether it should formally submit the findings for review and authorization for emergency use even though the American trial remains underway.

Some experts said the F.D.A. was unlikely to authorize the vaccine without more data, especially because fewer than 2,800 participants in the clinical trials received the smaller first dose that yielded such strong results. That is a much smaller sample size than in Pfizer and Moderna’s trials.

“I don’t think the F.D.A. had envisioned 3,000 participants to base a decision,” said Dr. Eric Topol, a clinical trial expert at Scripps Research in San Diego.

Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines are based on similar messenger RNA technology. It uses synthetic genetic material to stimulate cells to produce a harmless viral protein that the immune system can learn to attack.

The AstraZeneca vaccine is different. It uses a weakened version of a chimpanzee adenovirus as a delivery vehicle to ferry coronavirus genes into human cells. That trains the immune system to fight future attacks from the actual coronavirus.

The company said its early analysis was based on 131 symptomatic coronavirus cases that turned up in participants at least two weeks after they had received their second shot.

None of the vaccinated people who developed the disease required hospitalization, AstraZeneca and Oxford said.

“Today marks an important milestone in our fight against the pandemic,” AstraZeneca’s chief executive, Pascal Soriot, said in a statement. “This vaccine’s efficacy and safety confirm that it will be highly effective against Covid-19 and will have an immediate impact on this public health emergency.”

In a call with reporters on Monday morning, the Oxford scientists said they were still trying to understand why the vaccine was more effective with a smaller first dose. The first dose is supposed to prime the immune system, while the second is supposed to boost its response.

Dr. Saad B. Omer, the director of the Yale Institute for Global Health, pointed to several potential explanations for why the dosing regimens yielded different results. There could be key differences between the two groups, such as participants’ ages or their past exposure to similar viruses, that influenced how they responded.

The design of the vaccine could also play a role: The full dose could be giving participants immunity to the delivery vehicle and dampening their subsequent immune response. Sample size may also be at play. Because fewer participants received the smaller first dose, their results have less statistical power.

Dr. Omer cautioned against drawing definitive conclusions until more details were available. “I would withhold my judgment until we specifically look at more data,” he said.

Pam Cheng, an executive vice president at AstraZeneca, told reporters on Monday that if the company received regulatory authorization, it planned to have four million doses available in Britain by the end of the year. By the end of March, the company said, it would have at least 300 million doses of finished vaccine ready to distribute globally.

Even without delays, however, the vaccine is still a long way from being widely available. Regulators must assess the study data and decide whether to authorize the vaccine. AstraZeneca must ramp up production and work with government officials to roll out doses. And in the first weeks and months after the vaccine is authorized, it is expected to be available only to the highest-priority groups, likely health workers first, followed by other vulnerable groups.

Ms. Cheng said the regimen involving a half-dose would not significantly complicate the supply chain.

The F.D.A. has said that it expected a Covid-19 vaccine to prevent disease or decrease its severity in at least half of people who are vaccinated. That is similar to the effectiveness of seasonal flu vaccines most years. More interim findings from other leading vaccine makers, including Johnson &amp; Johnson, are expected soon.

The relatively simple storage requirements of AstraZeneca’s vaccine are expected to make it easier to roll out than several of the other leading vaccines. Moderna’s vaccine can be kept for up to a month at the temperature of an ordinary refrigerator. Pfizer’s can be kept for up to five days in conventional freezers or in special coolers for up to 15 days, but otherwise needs ultracold storage.

Andrew Pollard, the Oxford researcher in charge of the trials, told reporters on Monday that the scientists’ goal was “to make sure we can have a vaccine that was accessible everywhere.” He added: “I think we’ve actually managed to do that.”

The data released on Monday came from AstraZeneca’s Phase 2/3 clinical trial in Britain and its Phase 3 clinical trial in Brazil. The participants were randomly assigned to receive either the coronavirus vaccine or a meningitis vaccine as a control, followed by a booster shot of the coronavirus vaccine, the meningitis vaccine or a placebo about four weeks later. Professor Pollard said the Oxford scientists hoped to submit the results for publication in a peer-reviewed journal within 24 hours.

A vaccine deploying the technology behind AstraZeneca’s candidate has never won approval. But the approach has been studied before, notably in a small 2018 study of an experimental vaccine against the virus that causes Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS. That virus is related to SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19.

When Covid-19 emerged, the team of scientists at Oxford’s Jenner Institute that had been leading the work on similar coronaviruses had a head start. Once the genetic code of SARS-CoV-2 was published in early January, the Oxford team sped to adapt their platform to the new coronavirus and begin animal testing.

They also needed a development and manufacturing partner and found one in AstraZeneca in April. Safety testing in Britain began that month.

In May, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services pledged up to $1.2 billion to help fund AstraZeneca’s development and manufacturing of the vaccine and secure at least 300 million doses if it proved to work. Alex M. Azar II, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, called the deal “a major milestone” in the work of Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. government’s program to fast-track Covid-19 vaccines.

AstraZeneca has struck deals to supply doses of its vaccine, once authorized, to other wealthy nations, including Britain and other nations in Europe, as well as to lower- and middle- income countries. AstraZeneca’s vaccine is on track to supply 44 percent of all doses to lower- and middle-income countries, and 33 percent of all doses globally, according to projections from the British research firm Airfinity, which tracks deals between vaccine manufacturers and governments.





No.24 article:
Joshua Wong Pleads Guilty Over 2019 Hong Kong Protest

He and two fellow activists, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam, were immediately jailed on charges of unauthorized assembly. They will be sentenced next week.

HONG KONG — Joshua Wong, the Hong Kong pro-democracy campaigner, pleaded guilty along with two other activists on Monday to unauthorized assembly charges over a 2019 protest, capping a month of arrests of activists, journalists and politicians in the city.

Mr. Wong, along with Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam, who were all members of the since-disbanded group Demosisto, was immediately jailed by a court in the West Kowloon District and will be sentenced next week.

The cases add to heightened concern in Hong Kong as the authorities press a widespread campaign against dissent.

Over the past year, the police have used more aggressive tactics and social distancing rules to clamp down on a tenacious protest movement that roiled the city last year. Beijing’s move to impose a national security law this summer on the Chinese territory has further cast a chill over pro-democracy activism.

Eight pro-democracy lawmakers were arrested in November over a chaotic meeting that took place in the legislature in May. Hong Kong’s entire pro-democracy camp later resigned from the legislature after Beijing authorized the removal of four members of their group.

Mr. Wong, Ms. Chow and Mr. Lam faced charges over a demonstration in June 2019, when thousands of people surrounded Police Headquarters and called for an investigation of use of force by officers.

They did not say why they had pleaded guilty rather than fight the charges. In a Facebook post on Sunday, Mr. Wong wrote that the decision had been made after examining the prosecution’s evidence and consulting with legal counsel.

Demosisto disbanded shortly after Beijing imposed the national security law.

Ms. Chow and the founder of the city’s biggest pro-democracy newspaper, Apple Daily, have been among two dozen activists arrested under the law since it went into effect at the end of June.

Mr. Wong, who previously served three separate stints behind bars over two protest-related cases, said on Monday that he was prepared to return to jail.

“Perhaps the authorities wish me to stay in prison one term after another,” he said before his court hearing. “But I am persuaded that neither prison bars, nor election ban, nor any other arbitrary powers would stop us from activism.”

Mr. Wong pleaded guilty on Monday to charges of inciting and organizing an unauthorized assembly, for which he faces up to three years in prison. But he has maintained his innocence in a related charge of taking part in an unauthorized assembly.

Mr. Wong, 24, rose to prominence as a teenage protest leader during the Umbrella Movement.Last year, days after his release from jail, he spoke outside the Police Headquarters in Hong Kong, where thousands had gathered. He criticized the authorities for characterizing a June 12 protest outside Hong Kong’s legislature as a riot.

“No riots, only tyranny,” he led the crowd in chanting.

Later that day, some demonstrators threw eggs at the headquarters and marked graffiti on the outside walls.

Ms. Chow, 23, who like Mr. Wong was also a key figure in the 2014 pro-democracy Umbrella Movement, said she was concerned about the prospect of a prison sentence. She pleaded guilty in July to charges of participating in an unauthorized assembly and inciting others to participate that stemmed from the case.

“If sentenced, this will be my first time in prison,” she wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday. “While I say I have mentally prepared for this, I am still a bit scared.”





No.25 article:
Johnson Basks in a Rare Burst of Good U.K. News

The current lockdown is ending and a successful British vaccine could vanquish the virus by spring. But will that be enough to rebuild his sagging political fortunes?

LONDON — Buoyed by promising results for a British-led coronavirus vaccine and signs of a slowdown in the infection rate, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday laid out a plan to lift England’s nationwide lockdown next week. But he warned of strict regional restrictions that would last until next spring.

Mr. Johnson’s “winter plan” is designed to give his exhausted country hope for better times ahead while preparing it for several more months of mostly shuttered pubs and restaurants, and limitations on social gatherings.

“We have turned a corner, and the escape route is in sight,” Mr. Johnson declared to the House of Commons via video from 10 Downing Street, where he was still isolating after being exposed to a Conservative lawmaker who tested positive for the virus. But he added, “the hard truth is we’re not there yet.”

Under the new plans, England will return to a system under which the country is divided into three tiers of restrictions, though the government has yet to announce which regions will be under the different sets of curbs.

When the current lockdown expires on Dec. 2, gyms, stores and hairdressers nationwide will be allowed to reopen, and worship services, weddings and outdoor sports can resume. But in the worst affected areas of the country, pubs and restaurants will stay closed except for takeout service.

Even in some of the less badly afflicted areas, people will be able to drink in pubs only if they are also eating a meal. And while the pubs that remain open will be allowed to do so until 11 p.m. — an hour later than was the case before the recent lockdown began — last orders for alcohol will be taken at 10 p.m.

For Mr. Johnson, whose popularity has suffered because of his government’s erratic handling of the pandemic, the announcement was yet another chance to regain his footing. The package balanced his need to prevent another upsurge in the virus with a desire to avoid antagonizing 70 of his Conservative backbench lawmakers who have threatened to rebel over lockdown measures.

Mr. Johnson clearly hopes that his critics will be mollified by the prospect of an effective vaccine. But some lawmakers fear that the continuing curbs could devastate the hospitality industry, and on Monday expressed reservations.

“We have to be convinced that these government interventions — which will have such a huge impact on people’s lives, their health and their businesses — are going to save more lives than they cost,” said Mark Harper, who heads a group of Conservative lawmakers who have questioned the need for stringent lockdown measures.

Mr. Johnson expressed optimism about the vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, noting that it “has the makings of a wonderful British scientific achievement.” He said the government had ordered 100 million doses and 350 million vaccine doses overall, including two American-led vaccines.

The Oxford vaccine’s developers said on Monday that data from late-stage clinical trials showed that it was 70.4 percent effective in preventing Covid-19, with the rate going up to 90 percent, depending on the dosage regimen. The vaccine is also far less costly than the American varieties and, unlike them, does not require special handling, making it well suited for use in less developed countries.

“This is an incredibly exciting moment for human health,” said Andrew Pollard, the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group. He expressed particular excitement at data from a subgroup of the clinical trials that showed the vaccine was 90 percent effective when injected with a half dose, followed by a full dose.

Despite his inclination to bask in good news, Mr. Johnson was relatively restrained about the vaccine, noting that it would be several months before it was widely available. He spoke more about plans to introduce rapid-response tests, which he said would give people the confidence to move around the country.

Britain reported 15,450 new coronavirus cases on Monday, a decline of 27.7 percent from last Monday, which suggests that the three-week lockdown had succeeded in curbing the spread of the virus somewhat. The rate of people admitted to hospitals has also begun to moderate. But the death rate continued to rise, with 206 deaths reported on Monday,  bringing the total to 55,230.

Much of the debate in Britain has turned on the question of whether restrictions would be lifted in time for people to celebrate Christmas with their extended families. The government has held out hope for a temporary easing of the restrictions, followed by more rigorous restrictions early in 2021. But public health experts warned that a holiday exemption would sow problems later.

“It’s a bad idea to ease measures too much before Christmas,” said Devi Sridhar, head of the global public health program at the University of Edinburgh. “We will pay for Christmas gatherings with January hospitalizations and February deaths.”

Dr. Sridhar described the Oxford vaccine as a “major advance and strong tool that puts a nail in the coffin of the ‘Just let everybody get it now’ people.” But she warned that it was not a “silver bullet” and should not be used as an excuse to ease restrictions now. If anything, she said, it should fortify people to stick with the rules a little longer.

Mr. Johnson could use a shot of good news. His personal ratings have plunged after a succession of policy reversals, though those of his party have remained relatively healthy, giving him hope for a political recovery.

The prime minister’s allies are worried about the sense of chaos that has descended on the government in recent weeks. He was rocked by the abrupt departure of his most influential aide, Dominic Cummings.

And Mr. Johnson’s efforts to set a new course were buffeted last week by the findings of an inquiry into allegations of bullying behavior by the home secretary, Priti Patel. Ms. Patel remains on the job despite the report’s conclusion that she broke the official code under which ministers serve.

“The possibility of rolling out the vaccine soon is good news politically, as it presents a path out of the repeated cycles of lockdown,” said Roger Awan-Scully, a professor of political science and chairman of the Political Studies Association of the U.K. “But it is unambiguously clear that Johnson’s personal ratings have taken a big dive in the last few months.”

“If the sense of drift and shambles from No. 10 Downing Street continues,” Mr. Awan-Scully added, “there will be a section of the party that is fairly willing to stab him in the back.”

Advertisement





No.26 article:
A Reality Check for Italy’s Vaccination Hopes: a Flu-Shot Logjam

A leading Italian virologist says he hasn’t been able to get a simple flu shot, raising questions about Italy’s ability to carry out a mass vaccination drive to combat Covid-19.

After suffering through two big outbreaks of the coronavirus, many people in Italy greeted news that a vaccine could be available by early next year with some optimism.

But one of the country’s most renowned virologists and Covid-19 experts has provided a reality check about the country’s ability to carry out a mass vaccination drive — he says he hasn’t even been able to get a simple flu shot.

“It’s a real scandal,” the virologist, Massimo Galli, director of the infectious disease department at the Sacco hospital in Milan said Sunday on Italian television. While he expressed hope that the country would eventually be able to distribute a coronavirus vaccine to citizens, Mr. Galli said the outlook was “ghastly.”

That Mr. Galli, who is 69 and among the most recognizable, quoted and consulted coronavirus experts in the country could not get his hands on a simple flu vaccine renewed concerns among Italian experts about a potential lack of preparedness to procure and distribute a coronavirus vaccine when it became available.

“We can’t think of improvising as we usually do in this country,” Silvio Garattini, the president of the Mario Negri institute of pharmaceutical research, told La Repubblica, a Rome daily, adding that Italy was not equipped to store an eventual vaccine. “We weren’t even able to start the anti-flu campaign.”

Mr. Garattini, 92, said he hasn’t been able to get a flu vaccine either.

Unlike in the United States, where getting a flu shot at the local drugstore can be as seamless as picking up toiletries, it is more formal, and less common, in Italy. Young and healthy Italians generally don’t get a flu shot, and the vaccine is usually recommended only for the very young and elderly.

But this year was different.

In June, Italy’s health authorities urged people to get vaccinated against the flu, which has similar symptoms to coronavirus. The aim was to improve public health generally, reduce peoples’ chances of being gravely affected by the coronavirus, free up space for the country’s overwhelmed hospitals and help doctors detect Covid-19.

The Italian government also lowered the minimum age for a free vaccine from 65 to 60.

But five months later, flu shots are few and far between, and millions of Italians, including elderly people and patients with pre-existing conditions, haven’t been able to get the vaccine.

Some experts say that Italy’s regions, which control health care systems within their borders, placed their orders too late amid enormously high demand on the international marketplace.

Regional authorities have instead attributed the shortage to delays by the providers. So the flu vaccine, advertised at many bus stops, has often simply not arrived.

Some pharmacists, tired of turning away flu-shot seekers, have posted discouraging signs on their windows: “Vaccines didn’t come, we don’t know when they are coming.” That is not the situation the government had envisioned on June 5, when the Health Ministry recommended that the flu vaccination campaign start in early October and that the regions place more orders than usual to meet increased demand.

In the hard-hit Serio valley in northern Italy, a doctor, Mario Sorlini, said a much higher than usual number of patients had asked to be vaccinated for the flu. But the region only sent him about half the doses he received last year.

“We were the hardest-hit province by Covid and I was only able to do 25 percent of the flu vaccines I have to do,” Dr. Sorlini said. If he and his colleagues do not receive the doses before the flu comes, he said, it would be a “disaster on top of a disaster.”

Mr. Sorlini, 67, said he hasn’t been able to get a shot himself either.





No.27 article:
Pandemic Crowds Bring ‘Rivergeddon’ to Montana’s Rivers

As urbanites flock to forests and rivers to escape coronavirus threats, trailheads are cramped with parked cars and fishing on the Madison River is like a Disneyland ride.

BOZEMAN, Mont. — The Madison River rushes down out of the snows and springs atop the Yellowstone plateau, a dark blue, rock-studded, world-class fishing stream.

The fishing season is nearly finished, but a season of discontent continues. Throughout the summer and fall, there have been traffic jams on the river, and the number of large fish has declined.

“You’re in a flotilla with five boats in front of you and five in back of you,” said Carl Hamming, a board member of a local chapter of Trout Unlimited, which wants to limit commercial guides on the river. “It seems like everyone was flocking to Montana this summer,” he said.

Some say floating the jammed river feels like the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disneyland; a writer in a Montana wilderness journal recently coined another name for it: “Rivergeddon.”

After a series of contentious meetings, the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks on Wednesday approved a series of measures to ease the impacts of crowds on the Madison River, including a cap on the number of guided fishing and rafting trips, though critics say the changes will not do much.

The phenomenon of gridlock in a natural paradise has been seen across the West for years. But in Montana it has accelerated markedly this year, fueled by urbanites fleeing the pandemic. Now, many residents are concerned that the state that calls itself the Last Best Place has bragged a little too loudly and too often.

Much of the ire is focused in Bozeman and environs, some 80 miles north of Yellowstone National Park. Once a small college and ranching town, the last couple of decades have seen it explode with people who have come for the fishing, hiking, skiing and other outdoor amenities. The city, which has about 50,000 residents now, is forecast to add another 27,000 people by 2045 and far more if surrounding areas are taken into account.

Housing prices have soared, especially this year, driven by Covid-19 refugees who sometimes buy a home without seeing it. In one month this summer, the median home price jumped by $88,000 to $584,000 — in a city where the average annual wage is about $48,000. Home prices jumped another $35,000 just last month. Even as the Tyvek and two-by-fours of new construction have become ubiquitous, many local residents say they are getting priced out of the market.

The situation has been worsened by the proliferation of short-term rentals to satisfy demand created by out-of-town visitors.

“The pandemic has exacerbated it,” said Bozeman’s mayor, Cyndy Andrus. “We’ve been growing a lot, but it took off this year. They are fleeing big urban areas for the amenities.”

For some residents the biggest blow is the whittling away of their “psychic income.” Many people are willing to make less money in exchange for living in a wild place with uncrowded hiking, fishing and skiing.

That equation has changed dramatically this year, as people flee confinement for the great outdoors — and that includes both new transplants from coronavirus hot spots and local residents who are opting to spend more time outdoors during the pandemic.

Yellowstone Park did not fully open until June 1 because of the coronavirus, and much of the park’s lodging was closed, but August was the second busiest on record. September and October saw record crowds for those months.

Meanwhile, many residents complain of crowds swarming at trailhead parking lots, camping along roads in national forests, and overloading rivers and fly fishing spots. “This is the No. 1 topic of discussion,” said Dennis Glick, the director of a Bozeman nonprofit group called Future West, which helps communities with sustainable planning. “Everybody is complaining about how crowded campgrounds and trails are.”

At Bangtail Bike and Ski, a mountain bike and Nordic skiing store, sales are through the roof. “I sold five times the number of cross-country skis in September and October this year as last year,” said Robert Funderburk, the manager. He said that a shortage of skis and mountain bikes nationally has prompted people to come in and “panic buy” their outdoor gear. “I call it the toilet paper effect. People know there is a shortage and they just buy it.”

But the cramping of recreational pursuits is just one dimension. The Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, which takes in more than 34,000 square miles of wildland around Yellowstone National Park and includes the cities of Bozeman and Jackson, Wyo., is considered the largest nearly intact temperate ecosystem in the world.

It is one of the few places in the continental United States where landscape-level ecological processes can play out, including wolf packs hunting elk and deer, long-distance wildlife migrations and wildfires that can be left to burn in order to rejuvenate the natural landscape.

But the mounting human population, exacerbated by the pandemic but increasing over a period of years, has threatened all of those natural processes. “We are going to lose the greatest wildlife-rich ecosystem remaining unless we chart an alternative path,” said Todd Wilkinson, editor of Mountain Journal, an online magazine that has warned of poorly managed growth and the arrival of “Rivergeddon.”

“Other places like this no longer have wildlife because the landscape has been so fragmented,” Mr. Wilkinson said.

Snowmobiles and backcountry skiing are encroaching into the denning areas of wolverines. A recent study in British Columbia found that the presence of people in wildlife habitat, especially those on mountain bikes and off-road vehicles, can force animals to flee important feeding areas.

The Madison River provides a case in point for the steady escalation of recreational traffic to what was once a pristine river.

In 2008 there were about 6,600 commercially guided fishing trips on the river. Last year, there were more than 14,000.

That has led to parking lots filled with truck and boat trailers and lots of trash on the riverbanks.

“I’ve never seen anything like it,” said Kirk Deeter, a former guide and head of communications for Trout Unlimited in Steamboat Springs, Colo., another outdoor destination that has experienced similar growth during the pandemic. “With no T-ball leagues or theaters or malls, people found the rivers and lakes in droves. It’s a circus out there.”

The environmental damage already is obvious, he said. “The rivers are getting the living snot pounded out of them every day.”

Montana has seen an average of 1,232 new coronavirus cases a day over the past week, an increase of 40 percent over the previous two weeks, and many longtime residents have blamed the newcomers for bringing the virus with them — though Gov. Steve Bullock has said there is no evidence of that.

And the push to make way for newcomers goes on.

The recreation communities to the west of Yellowstone have also boomed, with the latest addition a $416 million, 520,000-square-foot lodge at the Montage Big Sky “ultra luxury” resort. It lies not far from a new 500,000-square-foot lodge at the high-end Yellowstone Club — designed, promotional materials say, “to respect the West.”

Mr. Glick, the advocate for sustainable planning, said that tourism and the growth of real estate, tech and service industries have been promoted as better alternatives to the damaging effects of mining and logging, Montana’s former mainstays. But they need to be studied and carefully managed, which is not now the case, he said.

“Conservationists touted recreation as the benign alternative to resource extractions,” he said. “It’s a tough pill to swallow that the alternative they have been promoting has become a significant environmental issue.”

Ms. Andrus, the Bozeman mayor, said it “may be time to dial down the tourism promotion” and reallocate some of the money to compensate for the impacts of a large number of visitors. But shutting the door is not the solution, she said.

“Closing the state down to visitors is not practical; even if it was, I don’t believe it is a good idea,” she said. “You cannot put that genie back in the bottle.”





No.28 article:
Quotation of the Day: In Second Lockdown, a Push to Keep Schools Open

“What kind of financial handout can you give to a kid for the long-term cognitive development impacts, to make up for it?”

DR. MICHAEL SILVERMAN, the chair of Infectious Diseases at Western University’s School for Medicine &amp; Dentistry in London, Ontario, and an author of a report warning about the long-term effects on young children who miss school.





No.29 article:
Dinner Is No Longer Served: Theater That Built Careers Is Gone

The Westchester Broadway Theater was one of the last remaining professional dinner theaters in the country.

It was a closing night at the Westchester Broadway Theater unlike any other.

The theater marquee still read “All Shook Up.” But the stage was stripped, except for piles of lights, and the audience was sparse — 100 or so, many of them former actors, crew members and fans. They carted off spotlights, posters, tablecloths and printers at a sale last week that lasted more than 10 hours. Everything had to go.

Bill Bateman, who had appeared in 10 shows at the 46-year-old dinner theater, came from Manhattan to reminisce, joining others at what was at once a family reunion and a funeral. “I wanted to say thank you,” he said later. “This was a great place to work for so many years. You got to do what you loved, all while getting to earn health insurance, pay your rent and sleep in your own bed at night. It’s a very sad day.”

This was not the happy ending that typically filled the theater’s stages, where musicals from “Show Boat” to “42nd Street” to “Newsies” had entertained grandparents and grandchildren alike.

Early this month the pandemic lowered the curtain on the 450-seat Westchester theater — a venue that helped jump-start the careers of the Tony Award winners Susan Stroman, John Lloyd Young and Faith Prince — and now one of the largest theaters in the country to close permanently. Some 100 employees were out of jobs.

And, after a blunt auction announcement that proclaimed a sale “to the bare walls,” there is no hope for a revival. The space would be gutted and turned into a warehouse.

Bill Stutler, one of the theater’s two co-founders, once dreamed of being a movie director.

A colleague remembers him fondly recalling a dinner theater excursion while visiting his parents back in West Virginia one Christmas. After being fired from his job as an advertising executive, he decided to open his own venue in Elmsford, a northern suburb of New York City, that would combine food and entertainment at a price not just stockbrokers could afford.

Never mind that in 1974 the country was in the middle of a recession, at the time the most severe since World War II. Or that start-up costs would run at least $400,000. Or that locals would try to shutter the theater before it got off the ground because they feared Stutler was building a strip club (William Hammerstein, the son of the lyricist Oscar Hammerstein II, helped set them straight when he joined the theater’s board).

Together with his friend Robert J. Funking, a chef, he built An Evening Dinner Theater — later renamed the Westchester Broadway Theater — an institution that would not just survive, but thrive, employing thousands of actors, waiters, stagehands and producers across more than 200 musicals and plays, generating as much as $8 million in annual revenue.

It became the longest-running year-round theater in New York to employ members of Actors’ Equity Association, the labor union that represents 51,000 theater actors and stage managers. Rob Marshall, who went on to direct the Oscar-winning film adaptation of “Chicago,” worked there. So did Estelle Harris (“Seinfeld”) and Will Swenson (“Hair”). Nights without shows featured comedians like Wanda Sykes and Lewis Black early in their careers.

But then came a pandemic — and a state-mandated closure in March. In a note to customers announcing the initial shutdown, Funking and Stutler promised ticketholders a credit for a future performance and a free drink, anticipating a time when “together we’ll all toast a return to normalcy.”

But it became clear that normalcy would not return any time soon.

“We cannot be a profitable business while being closed and it looks dim for any live theater to be open for the foreseeable future,” the three owners, Stutler, Funking and Stutler’s wife, Von Ann, wrote in a Nov. 3 email to patrons announcing the permanent closing.

Dinner theaters would be among the last venues to reopen, they reasoned. With their landlord, Robert Martin Company, unwilling to postpone payments on their lease and employees who had not been paid since March, they said they had no choice but to hang it up.

All three owners declined to be interviewed; Funking retired in January. A spokesman for Robert Martin Company, which took over the theater’s lease about a year ago, said the venue’s financial struggles predated the pandemic.

According to Pia Haas, the theater’s former director of press and public relations, Stutler had already been searching for a successor, and had an offer from Todd Gershwin, the Broadway producer and great-nephew of George and Ira Gershwin. (Haas provided information about the theater’s history, but said she was not speaking on the owners’ behalf.)

“He was on track to take over the theater before the landlords refused the offer he set forth,” she added.

Every American theater is suffering, but dinner theaters face a particularly grim prognosis.

The Westchester Broadway Theater was among the last dozen dinner theaters in the country to employ union actors. But Denise Trupe, the president of the National Dinner Theater Association, an organization of 22 professional venues formed in 1978, still said she was surprised to hear of the closure. While there are fewer dinner theaters now than during the 1970s peak, the dozens that remain tend to have loyal subscriber bases.

Though many of the Westchester theater’s former stars had lost touch with the institution, the response to its closing was surprise — and sadness.

Stroman choreographed “Gypsy” and “Sugar Babies” at the theater in the late 1980s, before going on to a career that includes five Tonys, for “The Producers” and other shows. She said that the generosity of Stutler and Funking sticks with her nearly four decades later.

“They were so open to giving me that chance back when I was a young choreographer with no name and no credits,” she said. “I’m forever grateful.”

Swenson made his Westchester debut in the title role of the theater’s 2001 production of “Jekyll &amp; Hyde.” He played the part at matinees, his first professional acting job after more than six months of auditions.

“It was such a load off,” he said. “I got insurance, and a paycheck every week, which helped me not feel like a failure.”

Actors who worked there say the place was more than a steppingstone. It served as an artistic home for actors with Broadway credits who wanted to work without leaving town, enabling them to earn their Equity cards and qualify for health insurance.

Robert Cuccioli, who made his Westchester debut in Maury Yeston and Arthur Kopit’s “Phantom,” said the family environment was one reason he continued to work there throughout a career that has brought him to Broadway often. Stutler and Funking, he said, were unswervingly loyal, delaying that production of “Phantom” for a month after he broke his foot in previews.

“The fact that they waited for me to get well before they opened meant a lot,” he said. “They treated me like a son or a brother. It was very special.”

Many of the nearly 5,000 people employed at the theater over its nearly five decades were not in the spotlight, including stagehands and waiters. And the connection lasted for generations.

Steve Calleran, the 72-year-old M.C. and evening manager, worked at the theater for nearly 35 years. He met his wife there in 1975, and his two daughters worked there as waitresses.

In the note announcing the closing, the owners estimated that more than six million audience members had attended shows, nearly 200 of whom wrote fond farewell messages on the theater’s Facebook page.

Patricia McDyer Smyth, a Westchester resident who had seen at least three shows a year for the past decade, fondly recalls organizing an outing to see “Saturday Night Fever” with 42 of her country-line-dancing friends.

But she was disappointed that the theater did not offer refunds when it closed. She had purchased 20 tickets for shows in the upcoming season, leaving her out $1,400. “I am also struggling during this pandemic,” she said. “I need that money back.” (White Plains Performing Arts Center, another Equity theater, will allow customers to exchange tickets for shows there once it reopens.)

But Calleran, who is now out of work for the first time in decades, does not blame Stutler and Funking for the closure. “I know they would have stuck it out for as long as they could have,” he said.

And Cuccioli said he feared the theater was only the first domino to fall. “I know other theaters are struggling,” he said. “I just hope something can be done to stop the bleeding.”





No.30 article:
103 Seconds to Go. Is Patrick Mahomes the Quarterback? No Problem.

Mahomes is the best because he is the most predictable. He knew the Chiefs were going to score and beat the Raiders.

Consider all that can go wrong on a football field, all that could have gone wrong for Kansas City late Sunday night, with the Chiefs trying to score the go-ahead touchdown and the Las Vegas Raiders seeking to stop them.

Penalties, mental lapses, drops, imprecise routes. The ball could sail just high or wide, grazing off a receiver’s fingertips. It could be caught a centimeter out of bounds, or intercepted a centimeter in bounds. All sorts of wacky stuff.

Until recently the Chiefs, with a grisly history of postseason malfunctions, knew wacky stuff. But when they took possession Sunday with 1 minute 43 seconds remaining and 75 yards to the end zone, running back Clyde Edwards-Helaire turned to a teammate and uttered the words that govern today’s N.F.L.: “We’ve got Patrick Mahomes. I’m not worried about anything.”

The Chiefs won, 35-31.

Mahomes is the best quarterback in the league in part because he is the most predictable. He eliminates variables, defenses, worries. He knew the Chiefs were going to score. Maybe not on a 22-yard reception by Travis Kelce, and maybe not with 28 seconds left, but he knew. Coach Andy Reid knew, too.

“I’ve got Pat Mahomes,” Reid said. “You give me a minute and a half and I’m pretty good right there. We can roll.”

No poll was taken, so call this a hunch: Everyone on Kansas City’s sideline knew it. And in an honest moment, maybe the Raiders would admit they had a sense of dread, too.

The Chiefs are 9-1, three games clear in the A.F.C. West of frisky Las Vegas (6-4), which holds the conference’s third wild-card slot, and in most seasons they would be gliding toward the No. 1 seed. But since Pittsburgh has yet to lose, Kansas City was left to rue the blemish on its record, an Oct. 11 defeat to the Raiders, and avenge it. After that loss, the Raiders’ buses circled Arrowhead Stadium in a victory lap of sorts, and though that little event had no tangible impact on the game that unspooled Sunday, professional football players and coaches do have pride, especially those who lifted the Lombardi Trophy only eight months earlier.

Nursing a grudge might not be healthy for one’s emotional balance, but for Mahomes and the Chiefs it is as nourishing as bone broth. It just so happens that late last week, Reid installed a trick play, which Kelce completed for 4 yards, with a Vegas homage, named Slot Machine Right.

The Chiefs do not lose often — only once in the last 54 weeks — but when they do, they tend to respond: After losing to Tennessee and Houston last season, Kansas City bludgeoned them in the playoffs, with Mahomes throwing for eight touchdowns.

In both of those games, Mahomes spun victories from double-digit deficits, developing a reputation for comeback wizardry that only intensified at the Super Bowl, when he led three touchdown drives in the final 6:32. But Mahomes does not lead many fourth-quarter comebacks — six across 46 N.F.L. games, counting the postseason — because his team rarely trails that late.

The Chiefs trailed late Sunday because Raiders quarterback Derek Carr did not just match Mahomes over the first 58 minutes or so — he outshined him. In one sense, the Raiders are the anti-Chiefs, an anachronism assembled to win with brute force: with fullbacks and blocking tight ends and by running with Josh Jacobs, who harnesses the power of a transformer, out of two-back sets. But they don’t have to.

The Raiders’ offensive personnel promote flexibility in a manner that feels vaguely aspirational, with Darren Waller blossoming into their version of Kelce. Carr didn’t surpass 165 passing yards in any of the Raiders’ previous three games, all victories, because Las Vegas bullied its opponents on the ground. On Sunday, he topped that number by halftime — 183 of his 275 total — and in the fourth quarter he whipped touchdowns to Waller and Jason Witten, whose 1-yarder off a Carr scramble put the Raiders up by 31-28 with 1:43 left.

Glancing at the clock, Carr thought they left too much time for Mahomes.

“Obviously, yeah,” he said.

Later, Carr clarified that he would have said that about any quarterback in that situation. But few quarterbacks in football history have done what Mahomes has done, or can do what Mahomes can do. At his current rate, Mahomes will throw for 4,856 yards this season with 43 touchdowns and only three interceptions; according to Pro Football Reference, no one has passed for that many yards and that many touchdowns and so few interceptions.

But Mahomes, the youngest player to win the Most Valuable Player Award and a Super Bowl, demolishes precedent. Never before had he thrown a go-ahead touchdown within the final two minutes. On the winning drive, he completed six of seven passes. On the winning play, he escaped the pocket and, surprised to see Kelce so open, zipped him the ball.

“I just tried to put it on him as quick as possible,” Mahomes said. “I knew that was the game winner.”

Of course he did. In the 75 seconds it took for Kansas City to go 75 yards, so much could have gone wrong. Nothing consequential did. The most expected outcome prevailed. Give Patrick Mahomes a minute and a half, and the Chiefs will roll.





No.31 article:
Is the New Owner of the Mets Funny? An Investigation

Steven Cohen crafted an image as a secretive, and ruthless, billionaire. On social media he’s showing an approachable side that couldn’t feel less like his predecessors with the team.

For a decade, Carlo Cerilli has been telling every Mets employee he encountered that the team ought to mark the spot in the parking lot where Cleon Jones caught the final out of the 1969 World Series at Shea Stadium. He had all but given up hope that anyone was listening.

That was, until he had an encounter on Twitter with Steven Cohen, the new owner of the team.

“I like that one,” Cohen wrote in a reply to Cerilli on Cohen’s newly verified Twitter account. After recovering from the shock that Cohen had actually replied to him, Cerilli thought to himself, “Finally, someone gets it.”

A chef from Dover, N.J., and a Mets season-ticket holder since 1993, Cerilli is not the only one to receive a personal response from Cohen. The new owner, whose purchase of the team was completed earlier this month, has engaged with dozens of fans in the last week or so.

It all stems from a post Cohen left on Nov. 1, when he wrote, “I would love to hear your ideas to make YOUR Mets experience better.”

Cohen addressed many of the topics that Mets fans have argued about for years. One fan wanted Cohen to pay off the millions of dollars the team owes Bobby Bonilla, the former player, in deferred payments that are due every July 1. The fan, Pete Dembroski, said it is too embarrassing for Mets fans to have to endure every year.

Cohen’s response: “Can I make it July 2?”

An account labeled #FireAdamGase congratulated Cohen on receiving account verification from Twitter.

“I guess I’m really me,” Cohen wrote.

On Thursday, Cohen responded to a fan with the screen name Patrick D who identified himself as an attendant at the O Lot at Citi Field and claimed he would be waving Cohen into the lot on game days.

“Patrick, I hope you let me in,” Cohen replied.

These exchanges are a dramatic departure from the previous ownership group led by Fred Wilpon, his son Jeff Wilpon and Saul Katz, each of whom shied away from engaging with fans in any public venues, probably to avoid being bombarded with laundry lists of grievances over perceived mismanagement of the team.

Cohen, on the other hand, is seen as a knight in shining armor, galloping in to save the franchise from oblivion with an arsenal of cash, a reputation as a savvy business manager, and now as a likable new figurehead.

Almost overnight, a man who seemed to operate best underneath the radar is poised to emerge as the most communicative owner in baseball, competing with the likes of Mark Cuban of the Dallas Mavericks for the title as the most approachable owner in sports. Cohen has a new toy, and in a refreshing way, he seems to love playing with it.

Thanks to Twitter, we now know that Cohen’s favorite movie is “The Godfather,” he takes his hot dogs with mustard and sauerkraut and Tom Seaver was his favorite Met. Bold choices.

In an era of social media managers, it is fair to wonder if it is actually Cohen behind the keyboard. But the responses feel genuine and are littered with just enough typos to lend credence to the idea that they were hammered out by a person between meetings, rather than an employee who would be risking their job by making the boss look bad.

Either way, the account marks a departure from Cohen’s previous reputation as a cryptic billionaire hedge fund owner. For years, he vigorously guarded his privacy and rarely did interviews unless they were off the record. He hated to be photographed, often buying the rights to photos of himself to limit their distribution. It was hard for the general public to get the measure of his personality.

That changed on Nov. 10. During a live Zoom conference call with reporters, Cohen projected a relaxed, engaging and knowledgeable demeanor as the new leader of the Mets. It was the polar opposite of the Wilpons, whose news conferences often felt awkward and scripted.

But Cohen’s best comedic chops, and most playful side, have emerged on Twitter.

Returning to the Bonilla issue, Cohen wrote on Friday: “Let’s take a vote. How about we have a Bobby Bonilla day every year. Hand him an oversized check and drive a lap around the stadium. Could be fun.”

One fan asked if Cohen, a renowned art collector, would rip a Picasso painting in half for a World Series ring. It was a big ask, but make no mistake: Virtually all Mets fans would be there on Cohen’s front lawn, cheering him on if he’d give it a shot.

Cohen’s playful response: “Can it be an inexpensive one?”

That answer seemed to clear up any question about the authenticity of the account. Only a billionaire of Cohen’s stature could consider a Picasso — any Picasso — inexpensive.

“He’s got a great sense of humor,” Cerilli, the chef, said. “Of course, he’s got a lot of money, so obviously people are going to laugh along. But I think it’s been great.”

Some of his gags deserve a drum roll and cymbal crash — if not an eye roll — like when a fan with the screen name Swole Nate wrote, “Can I be the new GM?”

“How about being a Ford?” Cohen answered.

Admittedly, it took one particularly thick reporter a few moments to get that one.

Following up the same line of questioning, a fan named Ryan Novak declared he would be the general manager of the Mets in 15 years, and asked if Cohen approved.

“I need to talk to myself 15 years from now,” Cohen wrote. “I’ll be right back.”

A query about the account was placed to the Mets, but the team said Cohen was not doing interviews for the moment. The team representative offered that anyone could dive in with a question on the account. So we asked, “Are you having as much fun with this as the fans are?” while sneaking in a plug for an official Fake Mustache Day.

No reply yet. Perhaps it would have been better to suggest he give Bonilla half of the torn Picasso.





No.32 article:
Trump Contrives His Stab-in-the-Back Myth

An obscene conspiracy theory from the past echoes loudly in the present.

The word Dolchstosslegende is hard to pronounce but important to understand. It translates as “stab-in-the-back myth” and was a key element in the revival of German militarism in the Weimar years. Even modestly educated Germans know exactly what it denotes and the evil it entails.

Donald Trump and his legal team are now contriving their own Dolchstosslegende.

That’s true even as Trump’s effort to overturn the results of the election seems to descend from fantasy to farce. The main point of the exercise is no longer (if it ever seriously was) to find a judge, governor or other pliable instrument to deny Joe Biden the presidency. It is to deny the legitimacy of the Biden presidency, of the electoral system that gave him the office and of the federal and judicial systems that turned Trump’s legal challenges aside.

The point of the farce is farce. It is to make an obscene joke of the Biden administration and our constitutional system of government.

This was also the point of the Dolchstosslegende, which claimed that the German Army, though in retreat in the fall of 1918, could have kept up the fight had it not been betrayed by defeatist and scheming politicians who agreed to an armistice that November.

This was, of course, a self-serving lie: Germany’s armies were being routed, its strategic situation was hopeless, its sailors were mutinying, its people were approaching starvation and only the armistice (which the kaiser’s generals asked for) spared it from a much more painful defeat.

But the nature of the myth wasn’t that it should be believable. It’s that it should be believed.

There’s a difference. The success of the first rests on a plausible interpretation of facts. The success of the second requires a psychologically astute understanding of the people to whom the lie is peddled. The Dolchstosslegende may have been a transparent falsehood, but it had the double advantage of bucking up a humiliated nation’s pride and playing to its gut prejudices. Translated into the bigoted vernacular, “defeatist” and “scheming” almost always meant socialists, communists and Jews.

In this sense, it doesn’t matter that Rudy Giuliani’s legal case is being laughed out of court. What matters is that the district judge who did so is an Obama appointee (despite being a conservative Republican), and therefore can be dismissed as part of the deep-state conspiracy seeking to bring Trump down.

Nor does it matter that the lawyer Sidney Powell painted an anti-Trump conspiracy so vast that it seems to have embarrassed Giuliani and would have made the ghost of Joe McCarthy proud. What matters is that Powell’s list of enemies — from the director of the C.I.A. to the former Venezuelan leader Hugo Chávez — hit all the right notes for the president’s die-hards.

And there are a lot of them: 52 percent of Republicans think the president “rightfully won” re-election, at least according to a Reuters Ipsos poll from last week. In other words, a majority of Republicans will believe literally anything Trump says.

Here again the comparison to Germany rings loud. In a famous passage of “The Origins of Totalitarianism,” Hannah Arendt noted how “Mass Propaganda discovered that its audience was ready at all times to believe the worst, no matter how absurd, and did not particularly object to being deceived because it held every statement to be a lie anyhow.”

The Dolchstosslegende worked because so many Germans were happy to believe what, at some level, they also knew wasn’t true. But it also worked because it had a clear aim that a growing number of Germans shared, which was to overthrow the struggling Weimar Republic by claiming that it was founded on treason. In other words, it wasn’t just a conspiracy theory. It was a political weapon with the revolutionary aim of destroying democracy itself.

What Trump and his minions are now attempting is of a piece. It is rich that many of the same people who spent years claiming that Robert Mueller’s lawful and constrained investigation was a deep-state coup are now happy to entertain a sitting president’s preposterous claims of electoral fraud.

But the aim is clear: to treat the Biden presidency as a product of treachery by a political order that is so comprehensively corrupt that it will require far tougher means than the ones Trump employed to root out.

In case certain readers think I’m making a comparison between Trump supporters and Nazis, let me emphasize that I am not. What I am saying is that this modern-day Dolchstosslegende, like surf pounding against a bluff, abets future demagogues by eroding public confidence in democratic institutions, until, unprotected, they collapse.

No comparison with the Weimar years is complete without noting that the republic wasn’t just done in. It did a lot to do itself in, too, mostly through economic mismanagement. All the more reason to wish the Biden administration well as it navigates crises that now include some of the most disreputable opponents our own republic has ever known.





No.33 article:
Trump Wars II: The Loser Strikes Back

Trashing the nation on his way out the door.

We all knew that Donald Trump would react badly to defeat. But his refusal to concede, the destructiveness of his temper tantrum and the willingness of almost the entire Republican Party to indulge him have surpassed even pessimists’ expectations.

Even so, it’s very unlikely that Trump will manage to overturn the election results. But he’s doing all he can to wreck America on his way out, in ways large and small. Among other things, his officials are already trying to sabotage the economy, setting the stage for a possible financial crisis on Joe Biden’s watch.

To the uninitiated, the sudden announcement by Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, that he’s terminating support for several emergency lending programs created back in March might not seem like that big a deal. After all, the financial markets aren’t currently in crisis. In fact, defying Trump’s prediction that “your 401(k)s will go to hell” if he were to lose, stocks have risen substantially since Biden’s win.

Furthermore, much of the money allocated to those programs was never actually used. So what’s the problem?

Well, the Federal Reserve, which administers the programs, has objected strenuously — for good reason. You see, the Fed knows a lot about financial crises and what it takes to stop them — and Mnuchin is depriving the nation of tools that could be crucial in the months or years ahead.

In the old days, what we now call financial crises were generally referred to as “panics” — like the Panic of 1907, which was the event that led to the Fed’s creation. The causes of panics vary widely; some have no visible cause at all. Nonetheless, they have a lot in common. They all involve a loss of confidence that freezes the flow of money through the economy, often with dire effects on growth and jobs.

Why do such things happen? Panics don’t necessarily reflect mob psychology, although that sometimes plays a role. More often we’re talking about self-fulfilling prophecy, in which individually rational actions produce a collectively disastrous result.

In a classic bank run, for example, depositors rush to get their money out, even if they believe that the bank is fundamentally sound, because they know that the run itself can cause the institution to collapse.

Which is where public agencies like the Fed come in. We’ve known since the 19th century that such agencies can and should lend to cash-starved players during a financial panic, stopping the death spiral.

How much lending does it take to stop a panic? Often, not much at all. In fact, panics are often ended simply by the promise that cash will be provided if needed, with no need to actually write any checks.

Back in 2012 there was a runaway financial crisis in much of southern Europe. Countries like Spain saw their ability to borrow collapse and the interest rates on their debt soar. Yet these countries weren’t actually insolvent; Spain’s fiscal position was no worse than that of Britain, which was able to borrow at very low interest rates.

But Spain, which doesn’t have its own currency — it uses the euro — was the subject of a self-fulfilling panic attack, as investors fearing that it would run out of cash threatened to provoke the very outcome they feared. Britain, which can print its own money, was immune to such a crisis.

In July 2012, however, Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank — the Fed’s counterpart — promised to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro, which everyone interpreted as a commitment to lend money to crisis countries if necessary. And suddenly the crisis was over, even though the bank never did end up doing any lending.

Something similar happened here this past spring. For a few weeks in March and April, as investors panicked over the pandemic, America teetered on the edge of a major financial crisis. But the Fed, backstopped by the Treasury, stepped up with new programs offering to buy assets like corporate bonds and municipal debt. In the end, not much of the money was used — but the assurance that the money was there if needed stabilized the markets, and the crisis faded away.

So far, so good. But in case you haven’t noticed, the pandemic is back with a vengeance; hospitalizations are already much higher than they were in the spring, and rising fast.

Maybe the new coronavirus surge won’t provoke a second financial crisis — after all, we now know that a vaccine is on the way. But the risk of crisis hasn’t gone away, and it’s just foolish to take away the tools we might need to fight such a crisis.

Mnuchin’s claim that the money is no longer needed makes no sense, and it’s not clear whether his successor will be easily able to undo his actions. Given everything else that’s happening, it’s hard to see Mnuchin’s move as anything but an act of vandalism, an attempt to increase the odds of disaster under Trump’s successor.

The thing is, until this latest move, it looked as if Mnuchin might be one of the few officials who managed to emerge from their service under Trump without completely destroying their reputations. Well, scratch that: He’s joined the ranks of Trump loyalists determined to trash the nation on their way out the door.





No.34 article:
China Launches Moon Mission to Bring Back Lunar Rocks

It has been four decades since lunar samples were brought to Earth, and the Chang’e-5 spacecraft’s bounty could have great scientific value.

China launched a spacecraft to the moon’s surface on Monday (it was early on Tuesday, local time), aiming to be the first nation to bring back lunar rock and soil samples in more than four decades.

The mission, called Chang’e-5, is the latest step in an ambitious space program that China hopes will culminate with an international lunar research station and ultimately a human colony on the moon by the 2030s.

The launch, from the Wenchang space site at Hainan Island in China’s south, was broadcast live by Chinese state media. China has often been secretive about its deep space missions, waiting until they made it to orbit before officially announcing success. The broadcast without any delay may be a sign of growing confidence in the proven track record of its space program.

Cameras mounted on the rocket showed its boosters falling away and the ejection of the protective faring over the robotic probe as it headed to space. Audio and video from the mission’s control room captured employees of China’s space program applauding as the first and second stage of the rocket separated, and then when the spacecraft reached orbit about 15 minutes after liftoff. An additional ignition of the spacecraft’s engine set it on a course to the moon.

If Chang’e-5’s journey to the moon and back is successful, China will be only the third nation to bring pieces of the moon back to Earth. NASA astronauts accomplished that feat during the Apollo moon landings, as did the Soviet Union’s Luna robotic landers, ending with Luna 24 in 1976. Those samples made major contributions to the understanding of the solar system’s evolution, and planetary scientists have waited eagerly for the day more samples would be brought back to Earth.

“This is a really audacious mission,” said David S. Draper, the deputy chief scientist at NASA. “They’re going to move the ball down the field in a big way with respect to understanding a lot of things that are important about lunar history.”

There has been a revival of interest in returning to the moon in the past couple of decades after the discovery of frozen water in shadowed craters in the polar regions. NASA has set a goal to send astronauts on new moon landings in the coming years with its Artemis program. Commercial companies — some under contract to NASA — are aiming to send robotic landers to the moon in the next year or two. India and an Israeli nonprofit tried to land spacecraft on the moon in 2019, but both spacecraft crashed.

In this century, so far only China has successfully put robotic spacecraft on the surface of the moon: Chang’e-3 in December 2013, and Chang’e-4, which in January 2019 became the first spacecraft to land on the far side of the moon. Chang’e-4’s rover, called Yutu-2, is still operating, studying lunar geology nearly two years later.

Although China ventured into space much later than the United States and the Soviet Union, the country has made huge progress over the past decade, and is now among the elite ranks of space-faring nations. In addition to the lunar missions, China’s astronauts have docked in orbit with space stations of the country’s own construction three times. In July, the Tianwen-1 mission set course for Mars, and will try to land on the red planet’s surface next year.

These accomplishments have become a source of national pride, carefully managed to emphasize the Communist Party’s strong and steady leadership. China’s space program remains secretive, but officials have offered more details than usual about Chang’e-5.

The entire Chang’e-5 mission, from liftoff to the recovery of the rock samples, will be over in less than a month.

After the spacecraft enters orbit around the moon, Chang’e-5 will split into two: A lander will head to the surface while the other piece, an orbiter, waits for its return.

Once it gets to the surface, in about a week, the lander needs to accomplish all of its drilling and scooping tasks within a single lunar day, which lasts 14 Earth days. The lander is not designed to survive the frigid dark lunar night.

The Chang’e-5 lander includes a small rocket, and before the sun sets it will blast off with the rock and soil samples. This rocket will rendezvous and dock with the piece of the spacecraft that remained in orbit. The samples will be transferred to the orbiter for the journey back to Earth.

The sample is scheduled to land in the Inner Mongolia region of China in the middle of December.

In an interview with China’s state television network, Yu Dengyun, deputy chief designer of China’s lunar exploration project, acknowledged that the complex choreography of Chang’e-5 was more technically challenging than that of earlier missions.

“We launch rockets on the ground with relatively mature technology, but we are using the lander as the launching platform on the lunar surface,” he said. “How to dissipate heat, how to divert flows and how to control the rising process are what we have never done before. These are hard nuts to crack.”

Chang’e-5 aims to deliver more than four pounds of specimens back to Earth. In the 1970s, three successful Soviet Luna missions brought back a total of about 10 ounces of moon. NASA’s Apollo astronauts lugged back 842 pounds of moon rock and soil. Scientists are still studying the Apollo and Luna samples.

The landing site is a volcanic plain called Mons Rümker in the Oceanus Procellarum region on the moon’s near side. For planetary scientists, rocks collected from this region promise a glimpse of a much younger part of the moon. The places explored by Apollo and Luna were all more than three billion years old. Mons Rümker is estimated to be around 1.2 billion years old.

Because it is so different from those earlier sites, “it’s possible to get new science outcomes,” Xiao Long, a planetary geologist at the China University of Geosciences in Wuhan, who was involved in selecting the landing site, said in an email.

Planetary scientists hope that rocks brought back by Chang’e-5 can calibrate a crater-counting technique used to estimate the ages of geological surfaces on the planets, moons and asteroids throughout the solar system.

A young surface is smooth and almost unblemished, while an old surface is more heavily cratered. But until Apollo, counting craters provided only relative ages; scientists could tell that one place was older than the other but not exactly how old.

With moon rocks collected by Neil Armstrong and other astronauts, scientists could measure radioactive elements in the rocks and precisely calculate when a volcanic eruption had occurred, and thus the age of the parts of the moon where the Apollo explorers set down. But none of the missions landed on a younger part of the moon, leaving a large gap of uncertainty.

The eastern half of Mons Rümker is a plain of basalt — a rock of hardened lava — that is relatively crater-free, suggesting an age not much more than one billion years.

“It has implications way beyond the moon,” said James W. Head III, a professor of geological sciences at Brown University who participated in analyzing Mons Rümker with Dr. Xiao and other Chinese scientists. “So it’s really a great place to go.”

Scientists also want to understand some of the differences in composition of varying parts of the moon, and the samples might also explain how part of the moon was still molten some three billion years after it formed. For example, they want to see whether rocks from Möns Rumker contain high levels of thorium. If the moon’s upper mantle in this region contained an abundance of that radioactive element, which generates heat as it decays, that might have produced the volcanism that spilled lava onto the surface before cooling into the basaltic plain.

“Or is there some other factor, or is the interior still hot?” Dr. Head asked. “By sampling these, we will be able tell whether these are high thorium or not. And if not, that resets that whole question.”

If there is little thorium, “scientists will need to rethink how this young volcanic rock was created,” Dr. Xiao said.

To study these and other questions, Carolyn H. van der Bogert, a research scientist at the Institute for Planetology at the Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität in Münster, Germany, said researchers needed more than the wealth of data that has been gathered by orbiting spacecraft such as NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter.

“What we really need now are very targeted ground truth missions,” Dr. van der Bogert said. Missions like Chang’e-5, she added, “are going to be really critical for testing and improving our remote sensing data sets.”





No.35 article:
No, Joe Biden did not have a maskless birthday party last week.

A tweet wishing President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. happy birthday last week generated false rumors that Mr. Biden marked his 78th birthday on Friday with a maskless party.

Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta tweeted a video of herself celebrating with Mr. Biden as a crowd sang happy birthday. She later noted that the video was shot in 2019, on Mr. Biden’s 77th birthday, at the Tyler Perry Studios in Atlanta after that night’s Democratic debate.

Mr. Biden is wearing the same red tie in the video as he did in the debate. A video of the same event taken from a different angle shows television screens with the words “Debate Viewing Party” hanging on the walls.

Mr. Biden has consistently worn masks during the pandemic and has been mocked by President Trump for doing so.

Apart from the inaccurate claims that the video was shot this year, some online commentators used the video to criticize the restrictions on Americans’ Thanksgiving plans that have been urged by public health officials, including those at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (Though the video shows a large, prepandemic gathering, it has nothing to do with Thanksgiving specifically.)

The claims follow several accurate reports about other Democratic politicians flouting social distancing guidelines. Photos have emerged showing a maskless Gov. Gavin Newsom of California attending a dinner at an expensive restaurant in Napa Valley and the state’s senior senator, Dianne Feinstein, wandering the corridors of Congress without a mask. In New York, local Democratic leaders mingled recently at a birthday party in Brooklyn, rarely wearing masks.

Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris were in Wilmington, Del., on Friday, meeting with Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. They sat several feet apart, wearing masks, and Ms. Pelosi gave Mr. Biden a white orchid for his birthday.





No.36 article:
Corrections: Nov. 24, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Nov. 24, 2020.

An article on Saturday about President Trump’s setbacks in his efforts to undo the election results in Michigan and Georgia misstated the number of uncounted ballots discovered during a recount in Georgia. There were more than 5,000, not several hundred.

An article on Sunday about the race between Pfizer and Moderna to develop a coronavirus vaccine misstated the age of a daughter of Moderna’s chief executive, Stéphane Bancel. She is 18, not 19. A picture caption in the article also misstated the academic degree of Mr. Bancel. He does not hold a doctorate.

An article on Sunday about an experimental antibody treatment granted emergency authorization by the Food and Drug Administration misstated the amount of Eli Lilly’s deal with the government. The company received $375 million, not $375,000.

An article on Monday, based on information from AdvaMed, misstated the rate that AdvaMed’s member companies were producing ventilators. The output before the pandemic was 700 per week and by summer reached 10,000 per week; the tallies were per week, not per month.

An article on Saturday about the backlash from President Trump’s allies that followed Tucker Carlson’s criticisms of arguments made by Sidney Powell, a lawyer for the president, referred incorrectly to the location of the bombing raid that killed Iran’s top general, Qassim Suleimani. The raid was in Iraq, not Iran.

An article on Saturday about the Republican resistance that awaits nominees to the Biden administration misspelled the given name of a longtime foreign policy adviser to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. He is Antony Blinken, not Anthony.

An article on Saturday about a congressional investigation into the Pebble Mine project in Alaska described incorrectly the proposed daily production from the mine. It would process 160,000 metric tons of ore per day, not 160,000 metric tons of gold and other mineral concentrates.

An article on Sunday about the return of Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner to New York misidentified the real estate agency a broker is affiliated with. She is with Brown Harris Stevens, not Warburg.

An obituary on Nov. 12 about the art collector Sindika Dokolo misstated part of the name of an organization that tracked the actions of his wife, Isabel dos Santos, that led to charges of money laundering and embezzlement. It is the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, not the International Coalition of Investigative Journalists.

An obituary on Nov. 16 about the singer and actress Lynn Kellogg misspelled the maiden name of her mother, Maxine Kellogg. It was Goeres, not Goekes. It also referred incorrectly to Sheila, the character Ms. Kellogg played in the musical “Hair.” She was a student protester, not a debutante turned hippie. The obituary also referred incompletely to the creation of “Hair.” While James Rado and Gerome Ragni conceived the show and wrote the book and lyrics, the music was written by Galt McDermot. And it misstated the date on which Ms. Kellogg appeared on the TV series “The Johnny Cash Show” in 1969. The episode was broadcast on July 26, not July 20, the day American astronauts landed on the moon.

An obituary on Sunday about the interior designer François Catroux misstated the nationality of the tycoon Antenor Pritiño, on whose apartment Mr. Catroux worked. He was Bolivian, not Chilean.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.37 article:
Training Facial Recognition on Some New Furry Friends: Bears

In their spare time, two Silicon Valley developers aided conservationists in developing artificial intelligence to help keep track of individual bears.

Ed Miller and Mary Nguyen are Silicon Valley software developers by day, but moonlight at solving an unusually fuzzy problem.

A few years ago the pair became mesmerized, like many of us, by an Alaskan webcam broadcasting brown bears from Katmai National Park. They also happened to be seeking a project to hone their machine learning expertise.

“We thought, machine learning is really great at identifying people, what could it do for bears?” Mr. Miller said. Could artificial intelligence used for face recognition be harnessed to discern one bear face from another?

At Knight Inlet in British Columbia, Canada, Melanie Clapham was pondering the same question. Dr. Clapham, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Victoria working with Chris Darimont of the Raincoast Conservation Foundation, was keen to explore face recognition technology as an aid to her grizzly bear studies. But her expertise was bear biology, not A.I.

Fortuitously, the four found a match on Wildlabs.net, an online broker of collaborations between technologists and conservationists. Combining their skill sets, Mr. Miller and Ms. Nguyen volunteered spare time over several years for this passion project that would eventually bear fruit, reporting the results of their experiment last week in the journal Ecology and Evolution. The project they produced, BearID, could help conservationists monitor the health of bear populations in various parts of the world, and perhaps aid work with other animals, too.

They got started by looking for other animals that had gotten the deep learning treatment.

“In typical engineering fashion, we’re always looking for a shortcut,” Mr. Miller said.

They discovered “dog hipsterizer,” a program that found the faces, eyes and noses of dogs in photos and placed rimmed glasses and mustaches on them. “That was where we started,” Ms. Nguyen said.

Although trained on dogs, dog hipsterizer worked reasonably well on the similarly shaped faces of bears, giving them a programming head start. Nevertheless, Ms. Nguyen said, the work’s initial stages were tedious. Creating a training data set for the deep learning program involved examining over 4,000 photos with bears in them and then manually highlighting each bear’s eyes, nose and ears by drawing boxes around them so the program could learn to find these features.

The system also had to overcome a challenge of brown bears’ physical appearance.

To monitor populations, “we have to be able to recognize individuals,” said Dr. Clapham. But bears don’t have any feature comparable to a fingerprint, such as a zebra’s stripes or a giraffe’s spots.

From 4,675 fully labeled bear faces on DSLR photographs, taken from research and bear-viewing sites at Brooks River, Ala., and Knight Inlet, they randomly split images into training and testing data sets. Once trained from 3,740 bear faces, deep learning went to work “unsupervised,” Dr. Clapham said, to see how well it could spot differences between known bears from 935 photographs.

First, the deep learning algorithm finds the bear face using distinctive landmarks like eyes, nose tip, ears and forehead top. Then the app rotates the face to extract, encode and classify facial features.

The system identified bears at an accuracy rate of 84 percent, correctly distinguishing between known bears such as Lucky, Toffee, Flora and Steve.

But how does it actually tell those bears apart? Before the era of deep learning, “we tried to imagine how humans perceive faces and how we distinguish individuals,” said Alexander Loos, a research engineer at the Fraunhofer Institute for Digital Media Technology, in Germany, who was not involved in the study but has collaborated with Dr. Clapham in the past. Programmers would manually input face descriptors into a computer.

But with deep learning, programmers input the images into a neural network that figures out how best to identify individuals. “The network itself extracts the features,” Dr. Loos said, which is a huge advantage.

He also cautioned that, “It’s basically a black box. You don’t know what it’s doing,” and that if the data set being examined is unintentionally biased, certain errors can emerge.

For instance, if some bears are photographed more often in light than in dark conditions, the lighting difference can cause misclassification of the bears. (Data bias can be a problem in human facial recognition by A.I., with misidentifications known to be more likely for people of color).

Whatever BearID is really doing, Dr. Clapham, who recognizes many Knight Inlet bears by sight, was surprised and encouraged by where the program fell short.

“The bears that I confused, the network confused as well,” she said, suggesting that the app behaves similarly to the neural network in her brain. However, this first release of BearID is just the start. She hopes the open-source application will become more accurate with more inputs, use and time.

The app is of great interest to the Knight Inlet Lodge in Glendale Cove, which has run grizzly bear tours for decades, and its current owner, the Nanwakolas member First Nations of Canada.

“Fifteen years ago when we started doing land use planning, there was just one provincial bear health expert for the whole province,” said Kikaxklalagee / Dallas Smith, the president of Nanwakolas Council and a member of the Tlowitsis Nation. That hampered the Nations’ understanding of the health of bears on their territory. He said he felt excited that this “Jason Bourne-ish” technology would allow for more informed stewardship of bears. “We’re trying to make it a sustainable, limited footprint operation.”

And BearID may not stop with North American bears, as Dr. Clapham is already in conversation with others keen to use it for species like sloth bears, sun bears and Asiatic bears, as well as wolves.

“What we’d love is that one day we have somewhere where people can upload camera trap images and the system tells you not only what species you’ve seen, but also what individual you’ve seen,” and maybe its sex and age as well, she said.





No.38 article:
As Customers Move Online, So Does the Holiday Shopping Season

Empty stores are turning into fulfillment centers and the market for warehouse space is booming, as the pandemic rockets the retail industry into its e-commerce future.

The holidays will look different at Macy’s this year. The Thanksgiving Day parade will proceed without spectators, and Santa Claus will not be reviewing Christmas wish lists from his usual perch on 34th Street.

But while many of those traditions are likely to return once the threat of the coronavirus passes, other changes at Macy’s this holiday shopping season — which traditionally begins with Thanksgiving — signal how the company’s business, and that of the entire retail industry, may be altered forever by the pandemic.

Early last month, two Macy’s stores, in Delaware and Colorado, went “dark,” meaning employees are primarily using the spaces as fulfillment centers where they process online orders and returns rather than a place for customers to browse and shop.

Jeff Gennette, Macy’s chief executive, said the dark stores are part of an experiment as the company responds to customers buying more online and demanding ever-faster shipping for free. But the conversion of a department store into a fulfillment center, even temporarily, reflects how retailers are succumbing to the dominance of e-commerce and scrambling to salvage increasingly irrelevant physical shopping space.

The forces propelling online shopping were set in motion long before the pandemic. But charting the decline of many brick-and-mortar stores and the simultaneous growth of e-commerce in the past seven months is like watching the industry’s evolution, and its impact on the broader economy, on fast forward. In the future, 2020 will be seen as a major inflection point for retail.

“Covid has pulled forward five years of fallout into an 18-month period,” said Vince Tibone, a senior analyst covering retail for Green Street.

Last week, Walmart, the nation’s largest retailer, reported that e-commerce sales increased 79 percent in the third quarter, while its rival Target said its e-commerce business was up 155 percent. Amazon’s sales increased 37 percent and its profit was up nearly 200 percent in the most recent quarter.

Retail executives said that staggering growth was not a fluke of the pandemic lockdowns, but the result of a permanent shift in how people shop.

“We think these new customer behaviors will largely persist,” Walmart’s chief executive, Doug McMillon, said in a statement last week as the company released its most recent sales and profit numbers.

Across the industry, online sales are expected to increase at their fastest rate in 12 years, accounting for 20 percent of all retail purchases this year. That’s up from 16 percent in 2019, according to Forrester Research.

While a portion of those sales are store pickups, many are not and the impact on brick-and-mortar is undeniable. Earlier this month, the number of stores announced for closure in 2020 climbed to a high of 10,991, according to the CoStar Group, a data provider for the real estate industry. Many malls are teetering as tenants reduce the number of stores, fail to pay rent or exit through bankruptcies. Retailers that filed for bankruptcy this year include J.C. Penney, J.Crew, Brooks Brothers and Neiman Marcus.

“Retail has changed; it just has,” said Daniel Horrigan, the mayor of Akron, Ohio, where Amazon opened a fulfillment center this month, creating 1,500 jobs. “You can’t stand in front of that wave.”

The new Amazon center replaces a once-beloved shopping mall from a bygone era that featured a Sears, RadioShack and York steakhouse.

But the 54-acre site sat vacant for a decade, a glaring reminder of the Rust Belt city’s broader struggles:the body of a murder victim was discovered at the mall site and another man was electrocuted trying to steal copper from the empty building. “It looked like a giant haunted house inside,” Mr. Horrigan said.

A few years ago, Mr. Horrigan attended the South By Southwest festival in Austin, Texas, and pitched Amazon on the idea of redeveloping the mall property.

City and state officials agreed to upgrade the roadways and interchanges to make it easier for Amazon trucks to reach the building, which is near a major highway. Amazon also scored tax incentives in the deal.

“The mall used to be teeming with so much life, with kids and popcorn and concerts,” said Mr. Horrigan, who has spent most of his life in Akron. “Every Christmas it would be full of people. But we have to be realistic.”

That realism is settling over other cities, too. Even before the pandemic, some of New York’s most famous retail corridors were emptying. Long stretches of storefront along Madison Avenue and in Soho have struggled with vacant storefronts, taking some of the shine off those luxury neighborhoods. Macy’s, which has posted sales declines of more than 20 percent in the past three quarters, has been hit especially hard at its iconic flagship store and at Bloomingdale’s with the temporary loss of tourists and office workers.

Workers say that since the retailer reopened in June, there have been more employees than customers in the stores on some days. At Bloomingdale’s, some workers are filling the time by packing online orders to ship from the store.

“There are people in the stores, but they don’t have the numbers,” in terms of sales, said Brenda Moses, who started working at Bloomingdale’s during the Christmas season more than 30 years ago.

Across Manhattan, the number of retail leases signed or renewed dropped 31 percent in the third quarter from a year ago and rents fell 13 percent in the major shopping corridors, according to CBRE, a real estate services company. It was the 12th consecutive quarter of rent declines. At Hudson Yards, the long-touted development on the west side of Manhattan, Neiman Marcus said it would exit its 188,000 square-foot space a little more than a year after opening.

“Some retailers will return when the prices come down,” said Santiago Gallino, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, who has studied retail. “But their stores are not going to come back in the same format. They will have to be more integrated with their online business.”

Inevitably, though, retailers will need less physical space. And it’s not clear what type of business will fill the increasing void, raising the prospect that Manhattan storefronts could stay vacant for the foreseeable future.

“For the economy and for the retail industry, this transition is exciting and good,” Mr. Gallino said. “But it is also true, it is not going to come without pain.”

The retail industry’s rapid transformation is equally vivid in the boroughs outside of Manhattan. Rising from the sites of long idled factories, more than a dozen e-commerce warehouses are being built to feed New York’s insatiable need for same-day deliveries. Warehouse leases were up 70 percent in the third quarter from the previous quarter.

In Red Hook, on the Brooklyn waterfront, work crews are building what will become one of the tallest warehouses on the East Coast: a three-story building with parking spaces trucks and “sprinter vans” to deliver goods across New York in less than a day.

In June, Amazon signed a lease on a 285,000-square foot “delivery station” in the Maspeth section of Queens. Amazon has also vastly expanded the space it is leasing in a string of giant warehouses on Staten Island. In addition to the 855,000-square foot fulfillment center that the company opened in 2018, Amazon this fall expanded into 1.4 million additional square feet of space on the Staten Island site. In the Bronx, the company is taking over a building recently vacated by its rival Walmart.

“I have been doing this for 30 years, and it is the best year we’ve ever had,” said Robert Kossar, head of industrial real estate for the Northeast at JLL, a real estate services company. “We certainly don’t see any signs of it slowing down.”




No.1 article:
Death tolls in Italy and Spain surge – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Appearing with first lady Melania Trump in front of the White House, the president made brief remarks thanking healthcare workers and researchers working on a Covid-19 vaccine.

According to tradition, two turkeys named Corn and Cob stayed at the Willard Intercontinental Hotel before the official ceremony. After an online poll, Corn was chosen to be pardoned.

Trump did not take questions at the event, and ignored a shouted question about whether he was considering pardoning himself.

In the UK, three different households will be allowed to mix inside over the festive period under new plans announced today. 

But leading scientists have sounded a note of caution. Here is what they plan to do to this Christmas.

Dr Julian Tang, clinical virologist and honorary associate professor in the respiratory sciences department at the University of Leicester

“We’ve agreed to just have Christmas via Zoom/telephone link as we think this is safest. We’re quite used to this now and have been doing it mostly this way for the past 10 months.”

Prof Susan Michie, director of the Centre for Behaviour Change at University College London and member of the government’s Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Behavioural Science (SPI-B)

With one household who usually joins us for Christmas Day we are planning to have drinks on the pavement before lunch.

We will probably spend more time outside and less inside, with more distancing, ventilation and lots of warm clothes! 

Prof Christina Pagel, director of the Clinical Operational Research Unit at UCL and a member of the Independent Sage group of scientists

It all depends on the Covid situation in December but our plan is to be extra careful (no meetings outside the household) the 10 days before Christmas, so we can then celebrate with my parents who are both in the extremely vulnerable category.

Handling bank notes poses only a low risk of spreading Covid-19, the Bank of England has said, after it commissioned research to find out how long the virus lasts on cash.

The use of notes has dropped sharply in the UK since the pandemic hit in March, and the Bank said one reason could be fears that cash can carry the virus.

After reopening following the first lockdown, many shops and hospitality venues in the UK encouraged consumers to make contactless payments, while some refused to take any cash.

However, the Bank’s research found that the risk of getting coronavirus from handling bank notes was much lower than that of contracting it from breathing air particles in a shop, or from touching items like shopping baskets, door handles or self-checkout terminals.

Its study involved a very high dose of coronavirus, equivalent to someone coughing or sneezing directly on to the bank note, and included tests on paper and polymer £10 notes. After contamination, the notes were stored at room temperature and repeatedly tested.

The study found that the level of virus remained stable for an hour, but over the next five hours it declined rapidly, and after 24 hours it had dropped to less than 1% on both types of note.

Using blood plasma from Covid-19 survivors to treat patients with severe pneumonia caused by the coronavirus showed little benefit, according to data released from a clinical trial in Argentina.

The therapy know as convalescent plasma, which delivers antibodies from Covid-19 survivors to infected people, did not significantly improve patients’ health status or reduce their risk of dying from the disease any better than a placebo, the study published in The New England Journal of Medicine found.

Despite limited evidence of its efficacy, convalescent plasma, which US president Donald Trump touted in August as a “historic breakthrough,” has been frequently given to patients in the US.

In October, a small study from India suggested convalescent plasma improved symptoms in Covid-19 patients, such as shortness of breath and fatigue, but did not reduce the risk of death or progression to severe disease after 28 days.

The new Argentine study involved 333 hospitalised patients with severe Covid-19 pneumonia who were randomly assigned to receive convalescent plasma or a placebo.

After 30 days, researchers found no significant differences in patients’ symptoms or health. The mortality rate was nearly the same at 11% in the convalescent plasma group and 11.4% in the placebo group, a difference not deemed statistically significant.

It is still possible that convalescent plasma might help less-sick Covid-19 patients, study leader Dr Ventura Simonovich of the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires said, but more studies would be needed and supplies of the treatment are not scalable.

For patients with severe disease, like the ones in this study, “other therapies based on antibodies could have a role,” he said. 

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may soon shorten the length of self-quarantine period after potential exposure to the coronavirus, a top official has said.

Health authorities currently recommend a 14-day quarantine in order to curb transmission of the virus but an official said there is evidence the period could be shortened if patients are tested for the virus during their quarantine.

“Let me confirm that we are constantly reviewing the evidence and we are starting to have evidence that a shorter quarantine complemented by tests might be able to shorten that quarantine period from 14 days to shorter days,” a top US health official said on a press call, Reuters reports.

He added that the decision to change the guidance is not final and experts are still reviewing data to make sure such a change would not put people at risk.

The US government has been criticised by experts and public health officials for being slow to ramp up Covid-19 testing.

It has also distributed nearly 40m out of 150m rapid tests it agreed to acquire from Abbott Laboratories earlier this year, the officials said.

New coronavirus cases in the US are averaging nearly 172,000 a day and have exceeded 100,000 since early November, according to a Reuters tally.

US total deaths due to coronavirus reached nearly 259,000 on Tuesday with over 12.5 million cases.

Scientists have warned the UK’s Christmas coronavirus plans, which will allow up to three households form a “bubble” to meet over the festive period, will cause the virus to spread and lead to further deaths. 

Martin McKee, the professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said: “We know that the virus spreads easiest where people mix together, close to each other, for long periods of time indoors. These are exactly the conditions the government seems to be encouraging.”

He urged the government to promote ways of celebrating outside and reducing risks when meeting indoors. 

“There is almost no advice on imaginative ways of celebrating the festivities, despite the long history of outdoor seasonal events in this country, and only the briefest mention of ways to reduce the risks indoors, for example by increasing ventilation,” he said. 

Paul Hunter, a professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia, said: “Any relaxation of the restrictions over the Christmas period will almost inevitably lead to some increase in transmission and therefore, illness, hospitalisations and sadly deaths.”

However, he said the benefits of allowing families to meet over Christmas may outweigh the risks, and the closure of schools over the holidays will also reduce transmission.

“The benefits on people’s mental health of being to meet up with family over this time should not be underestimated,” he said. “ My personal view is that some relaxation of the rules in line with what is currently being reported will have sufficient benefits to justify the additional risks for the Covid epidemic.

“After Christmas we will still have to live through a few more months of restrictions at least. Christmas, whether or not we celebrate the day as a religious festival, may be what we need to make it through the rest of winter.”

However, he also stressed the importance of a well-managed tier system before and after Christmas as essential for keeping cases down.

Brazil registered a further 31,100 confirmed Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours and 630 deaths, the health ministry said.

The South American nation has now registered 6,118,708 cases since the pandemic began and the official death toll has risen to 170,115, according to ministry data.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Tuesday reported a further 157,531 Covid-19 cases, and said the number of deaths had risen by 1,058 to 257,016. 

The total number of cases in the country now stands at 12,333,452. 

The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states. 

Countries across Europe have started announcing their plans to allow people to celebrate during the festive season under coronavirus restrictions - here’s a quick summary:

French president Emmanuel Macron has announced the start of a phased easing of lockdown restrictions.

The progression from one phase to the next will be contingent on coronavirus transmission rates staying on a downward trajectory, he said.

Here are details of the plan:

Phase One - From 28 November

Phase Two - From 15 December (if new daily infections fall to 5,000)

Phase Three - From 20 January (if the number of new infections remains below 5,000 cases per day)

Winter sport resorts will not be able to reopen before the end of the year, French president Emmanuel Macron said in a televised address to the nation.

“The government has held talks with the industry, but it seems impossible to consider reopening for the year-end festivities,” Macron said, adding that it would be preferable to reopen in January under good conditions and in coordination with other European countries.

France will start easing its Covid-19 lockdown this weekend so that by Christmas, shops, theatres and cinemas will re-open and people will be able to spend the holiday with the rest of their family, French president Emmanuel Macron has said.

In a televised address to the nation, Macron said the worst of the second wave of the epidemic in France was over, but that restaurants, cafes and bars would have to stay shut until 20 January to avoid triggering a third wave.

“We must do everything to avoid a third wave, do everything to avoid a third lockdown,” Macron said.

After curfew measures in major French cities in mid-October failed to produce the results the government had hoped for, it enforced a one-month lockdown on 30 October, though it was less strict than a lockdown that ran from 17 March to 11 May.

Positive trends including a decline in hospitalisations for Covid-19 infections, combined with pressure from business lobbies who say they are facing ruin, have led to calls to start loosening the lockdown as soon as possible.

Macron also said he would start a vaccination campaign at the end of December or beginning of January, starting with the most vulnerable and older people. Vaccination won’t be mandatory, he said. 

The Guardian’s foreign correspondent Kim Willsher has more information on the exact details of the eased restrictions:

Hi everyone, this is Jessica Murray taking over the liveblog for the next few hours.

As always, please do get in touch with any story ideas or personal experiences you would like to share.

Email: jessica.murray@theguardian.comTwitter: @journojess_

That’s it from me today. My colleague Jessica Murray will be taking over shortly. Here’s a summary of the major events so far:

•The number of new infections in France dropped sharply against the same day last week, with the figure dropping from 45,522 last Tuesday to 9.155 today.

•There were a further 853 coronavirus-related deaths in Italy on Tuesday – the highest daily toll since the end of March - and 23,232 new infections.

•A network of 13 African countries has joined forces with global researchers to launch the largest clinical trial of potential Covid-19 treatments on the continent

•Spain recorded 537 new Covid deaths, the highest daily toll seen so far in the country’s second wave. The government there is planning to limit Christmas and New Year gatherings to groups of six.

•Japan plans to pause its domestic travel campaign in two cities following sharp rises in Covid-19 cases, the minister handling the government’s coronavirus response said on Tuesday.

•Sweden’s health watchdog has reported “serious shortcomings” in Covid-19 care for residents of nursing homes where thousands of people have died.

•Cases of coronavirus were found in mink farms in Poland, after similar findings in Denmark led the government there to announce a cull of the 15-17 million animals on farms there.

•The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine have claimed it has 95% efficacy and will cost less than $10 a dose internationally. Previous announcements from the Russian team have been met with scepticism.

The number of new coronavirus infections and the number of people in hospital with the virus in France again dropped sharply as a national lockdown went into its fourth week.

The health ministry reported the number of new cases rose by 9,155 to 2.15 million, compared to 4,452 on Monday - when numbers are usually low due to weekend reporting lags - and compared to 45,522 last Tuesday.

The number of people in hospital with Covid-19 fell by 859 to 30,622, the sharpest drop since the start of the lockdown on 30 October and the number of people in intensive care dropped by 165 to 4,289.

Both series have been falling almost without interruption for 11 days.

France also reported 1,005 new deaths from coronavirus, pushing the total above 50,000 - it now stands at 50,237.

The tally included 454 deaths in hospital over the past 24 hours and 551 in retirement homes over several days. The country reported 500 hospital deaths on Monday.

French president Emmanuel Macron will speak to the country at 8pm (1900 GMT) and is expected to announce some loosening of lockdown regulations in response to the falling infection rates. 

Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada, has said that the country will have to wait for a vaccine because the very first ones that roll off assembly lines are likely to be given to citizens of the country they are made in.

Trudeau noted Canada does not have vaccine-production facilities. The United States, the United Kingdom and Germany do.

Trudeau said it is understandable that an American pharmaceutical company will distribute first in the U.S. before they distribute internationally.

“Shortly afterwards they will start honoring and delivering the contracts that they signed with other countries including Canada,” Trudeau said, in remarks reported by AP. “We’re expecting to start receiving those doses in the first few months of 2021.”

In the UK, my colleagues Jessica Elgot and Peter Walker have just published a story saying that up to three different households will be allowed to mix for five days over Christmas.

You can follow our UK live blog for more on this or read the full story here:

Spain recorded 537 new Covid deaths on Tuesday, the highest daily toll seen so far in the country’s second wave. It comes a week after the country hit a record second wave death toll of 435.

Spain logged 12,228 news cases on Tuesday, bringing its total number to 1,594,844. To date, the virus has claimed 43,668 lives across the country.





No.2 article:
Mexican cartel boss arrested over Mormon massacre in which nine died

Even in a country long used to violence, the 4 November massacre of three women and six children as they travelled a lonely road through the Sierra Madre mountains shocked many Mexicans – not least because there seemed no explanation for the bloodshed.

Roberto González Montes, nicknamed El Mudo (The Mute) or El 32, was detained late on Monday in an operation carried out by the federal prosecutor’s office and members of the army and navy, according to Ciudad Juárez newspaper El Diario de Juárez.

Adrián LeBarón, whose daughter Rhonita Miller and her eight-month-old twins were murdered in the attack, confirmed the arrest on Twitter, where he described it as “a step toward knowing the truth about who killed my children”.

He also identified González as “leader of La Línea cartel section (Nuevo) Casas Grandes” – a city in Chihuahua state near the US border with New Mexico.

Two others were detained with El Mudo.

La Línea is considered the armed wing of the Juárez cartel and is accused of running extortion rackets in the region, among other illegal activities.

In a WhatsApp message, Julian LeBarón, a relative of the victims, described El Mudo as “the highest-ranking cartel guy on site”.

“This guy is considered in our region, which is the north-west region [of Chihuahua], to be the top cartel dog, the top enforcer for the Juárez cartel,” he said. “So it’s a pretty big deal locally.”

The massacre prompted an angry response from Donald Trump, who threatend to designate Mexican drug cartels as terror organisations.

It also cast a spotlight on the fundamentalist Mormon families of north-western Mexico, whose ancestors relocated in the late 19th century to avoid US polygamy laws. The tightly knit community has become well-known in Mexico for fighting back against attempts at kidnapping and extortion.

All of the victims were dual US-Mexico citizens, a status which Julián LeBarón has said allows them some ability to speak openly against organized crime in Mexico.

Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has met with the family and travelled twice to Bavispe – the municipality in Sonora state where the crime was committed. The president inaugurated a national guard station there in October.

US investigators, including the FBI, have been involved in the investigation, Julian LeBarón said.

“Officially, we’ve been told that two cartels were duking it out and my cousins just happened to be driving by. But there are many unanswered questions, and hopefully we can get them answered eventually,” Julian LeBarón said.

“They told us that over 100 people participated in that massacre and they’re going after all of them. But one thing is to capture all these people, and another thing that is very distinct and different is for them to be tried, and have them go to prison for a long time. That almost never happens.”





No.3 article:
Bank notes pose &#x27;low risk&#x27; of spreading Covid-19

Bank of England reveals results of research into how long the virus lasts on cash

Handling bank notes poses only a low risk of spreading Covid-19, the Bank of England has said, after it commissioned research to find out how long the virus lasts on cash.

The use of notes has dropped sharply since the pandemic hit in March, and the Bank said one reason could be fears that cash can carry the virus.

After reopening following the first lockdown, many shops and hospitality venues encouraged consumers to make contactless payments, while some refused to take any cash.

However, the Bank’s research found that the risk of getting coronavirus from handling bank notes was much lower than that of contracting it from breathing air particles in a shop, or from touching items like shopping baskets, door handles or self-checkout terminals.

Its study involved a very high dose of coronavirus, equivalent to someone coughing or sneezing directly on to the bank note, and included tests on paper and polymer £10 notes. After contamination, the notes were stored at room temperature and repeatedly tested.

The study found that the level of virus remained stable for an hour, but over the next five hours it declined rapidly, and after 24 hours it had dropped to less than 1% on both types of note.

Although the Bank cautioned that “just because low levels of virus are observed, it does not mean that they are at a level that can cause infection”, it said other surfaces posted more risk when people were out and about.

The move away from cash has been a long-term trend, but the crisis has accelerated changes in shopping habits and the options on offer to consumers. Some campaign groups have warned that this risks leaving vulnerable people with no access to cash even though they may be reliant on it.

The Bank’s research showed that in the run-up to the national lockdown in March there was a growth in demand for bank notes as people withdrew cash as a response to heightened uncertainty.

Gareth Shaw, from the consumer group Which?, said: “Digital payments simply aren’t an option for some consumers – particularly if they are vulnerable or live in isolated communities – and it is vital that they are not abandoned.

“The Bank of England’s research showing the risk of Covid transmission via cash is low should give retailers confidence that they can accept it to help the millions of consumers who rely on cash.”





No.4 article:
The long-planned idea of 'Christmas bubbles' – which Gove insisted demonstrated a 'cautious approach' – was thrashed out in a meeting involving the four UK nations. It will allow people to travel around freely from 23 to 27 December, irrespective of what local tier of Covid restrictions they live in.





No.5 article:
New rules will mean you can’t change your bubble but there is no maximum size for the three permitted households

The government has announced that up to three households will be able to mix indoors and stay with each other overnight from 23 to 27 December under loosened coronavirus restrictions across the UK. But how exactly will these new “Christmas bubbles” work?

No. In a blow to pubs and restaurants, and families who like to avoid the piles of washing-up, separate households in a Christmas bubble will not be able to meet up in hospitality venues. Restrictions on these venues – which will vary depending on which tier they are placed in from 2 December – will remain in place over the festive period. However, members of a Christmas bubble can meet at home, in places of worship and in outdoor public places including gardens.

You can continue to meet people who are not in your Christmas bubble outside your home according to the rules in the tier you are staying in.

There is no maximum size for a Christmas bubble, so you don’t need to worry if you and those you join with live in large households. This means three households of two people each – a total of six people – are allowed to meet, just as three households of, say, six people each – a total of 18 people – are also allowed to meet.

Under the rules, a support bubble will count as one household when Christmas bubbles are being formed.

In England, support bubbles have been permitted for a number of months throughout Covid restrictions, allowing a household with one adult to join with another household. Those in a support bubble can still visit each other, stay overnight and visit public places together.

This means that, technically, if three support bubbles – each comprising two separate households – were to join together in a Christmas bubble, six households would be able to meet.

No, the bubbles have to be exclusive, and they cannot change over the five-day period – so pick your households carefully. This means that you can’t mix with two households on Christmas Day, and then a different two households on Boxing Day. However, children whose parents are separated will be able to move between two Christmas bubbles so they’re able to celebrate with both parents.

Bubble members will not be required to social distance while they are together, so they can hug or kiss under the mistletoe. However, people are advised to exercise caution if there are vulnerable people involved in their bubble. “This virus is not going to grant a Christmas truce,” Boris Johnson said on Monday.

In England, some care home residents may be allowed to form a bubble with one other household, in agreement with the home and subject to individual risk assessments. In this case, social distancing should be maintained, with regular hand washing and ventilation to reduce risk. Care home residents should not form a three-household Christmas bubble at any point.

Individuals will be able to travel between coronavirus tiers and across the UK during the designated festive period (23 to 27 December). People will be able to travel to and from Northern Ireland for an extra day either side of that period, to allow for the extra time needed.

In England, people living in shared households can split and join separate Christmas bubbles without breaking the three-household rule. So a group of, say, four young people living together would all be allowed to return home to their four separate families for Christmas and then come back to their shared home after the festive period.

University students who return to their families at the end of term will be counted as part of that household, not a separate household.





No.6 article:
&#x27;Structural racism&#x27;: UN urges reforms in Brazil after deadly beating of black man

Days of protests erupted after video showed Joao Alberto Silveira Freitas, who later died, being attacked by white security guard

The UN has said that the deadly beating of a black man by white guards in Brazil exemplified “structural racism”, and called for an independent investigation and urgent reforms in the country.

Several days of protest erupted in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, after video footage last week showed 40-year-old welder Joao Alberto Silveira Freitas being punched in the face and head by a supermarket security guard while another guard held him. Freitas later died and the two men who attacked him are currently being investigated for homicide.

Ravina Shamdasani, a spokeswoman with the UN rights office, told reporters during a virtual briefing in Geneva that his killing was “an extreme but sadly all too common example of the violence suffered by Black people in Brazil”.

“It offers a stark illustration of the persistent structural discrimination and racism people of African descent face,” she said.

She said government officials had a responsibility to acknowledge the underlying problem of persisting racism as the first essential step towards solving it.

Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president, has downplayed structural racism there, where around 55% of its population of 212 million identifies as black or mixed-race.

Bolsonaro has insisted he himself is “colour blind”, while his vice-president, Hamilton Mourao, also caused an outcry Friday when he said “there is no racism” in Brazil.

Shamdasani however insisted that “structural racism, discrimination and violence people of African descent face in Brazil is documented by official data”.

She pointed to statistics showing that “the number of Afro-Brazilian victims of homicide is disproportionately higher than other groups.

“Black Brazilians endure structural and institutional racism, exclusion, marginalisation and violence, with, in many cases, lethal consequences,” she said.

“Afro-Brazilians are excluded and almost invisible from decision-making structures and institutions.”

Acknowledging that Brazil had opened an investigation into Freitas’s death, Shamdasani called for the probe to be “prompt, thorough, independent, impartial and transparent”, and insisted it should “examine if racial bias played a role”.

The UN rights office, she said, was also urging Brazilian authorities to “investigate any allegations of unnecessary and disproportionate use of force against people protesting peacefully following Silveira Freitas’s death and hold those responsible to account”.

More broadly, she said, there was an urgent need for Brazil to reform its laws, institutions and policies to address “deeply engrained racial stereotypes”.





No.7 article:
Germany and Spain look to limit Christmas gatherings as Macron unveils tough post-lockdown restrictions

France has announced a limited easing of its strict nationwide lockdown and Germany and Spain have outlined restrictions on Christmas and new year gatherings as European governments act to prevent Covid cases multiplying over the holiday period.

The announcements came as the second wave of the pandemic continued to cause daily death tolls not seen in the worst hit countries since the spring: Spain recorded 537 new deaths on Tuesday and Italy a further 853, its highest daily toll since the end of March.

Germany’s 16 federal states are likely to approve gatherings of a maximum of 10 people during the festive season, according to a draft proposal due to be discussed on Wednesday by state premiers and the country’s chancellor, Angela Merkel.

The mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, said he was confident the measures would be adopted, while two state premiers said there was further broad agreement to extend a national “lockdown light” until 20 December to make family gatherings possible.

Germany closed bars, restaurants and entertainment venues for a month on 2 November, with schools and shops remaining open and private gatherings restricted to 10 people from two households.

Under the new plan, gatherings would be limited to five until the Christmas break. Big public New Year’s Eve firework displays look likely to be banned, but otherwise family celebrations should be possible “albeit on a smaller scale”, the draft said.

In France, the president, Emmanuel Macron, announced a three-stage easing of the country’s month-long lockdown, beginning this weekend with the reopening of “non-essential” businesses such as hairdressers and clothes shops, which will have to observe strict distancing rules and close at 9pm.

Churches and some cultural venues will also be able to reopen from 1 December, with a maximum of 30 visitors, Macron said in a televised address, and people would be allowed to exercise within a 20km (12-mile) radius of their homes and for up to three hours, rather than the current 1km, one-hour limits.

Providing infection numbers have fallen to about 5,000 a day, lockdown will be formally lifted on 15 December, allowing holiday travel, Macron said – although a nationwide 9pm-7am curfew would be in force except on 24 and 31 December, and all private festive gatherings would be expected to observe strict distancing rules.

“We have to do everything in our power to avoid a third wave and a third lockdown,” Macron said. “You must play a central role in this. I appeal to the responsibility and the discipline of each and every one of you.”

A third stage would begin from 20 January, Macron said, when restaurants should be able to reopen. He did not say when cafes and bars might follow suit. 

The Spanish government is planning to limit festive gatherings to six people and to set a 1am to 6am curfew for Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve, according to a leaked document seen by Spanish newspapers.

“With respect to family gatherings, we recommend they be limited to members of the same household. Should there be an external guest who does not usually live with the family, gatherings should include a maximum of six people and preventive measures must be followed,” the draft says.

Spain, under a state of emergency since late October, is hoping to have what the government called a “very substantial part” of the population vaccinated against the coronavirus by the end of March 2021.

Its health minister, Salvador Illa, outlined the government’s plans for the first round of vaccinations on Tuesday, saying the first people to get the vaccine would be care home residents and staff, health workers, and those with serious disabilities. The government hopes to vaccinate 2.5 million people in those categories between January and the end of March next year.

The Finnish capital, Helsinki, meanwhile, is introducing tough new restrictions after a sharp rise in the number of coronavirus cases, with high schools, libraries and swimming pools to be closed and public events banned outright.

“We propose to use the full range of measures within the city’s powers,” said Helsinki’s mayor, Jan Vapaavuori, warning that healthcare and contact-tracing services were at risk of being overwhelmed and too many people were ignoring recommendations.

The Finnish prime minister, Sanna Marin, warned on Monday that a new state of emergency could be declared if regional measures proved ineffective. Nationwide, Finland’s infection rate remains the lowest in the EU, with 69 new cases per 100,000 people over the last fortnight, but in the Helsinki area it has risen to 159 per 100,000.

In Sweden, whose light-touch anti-lockdown approach has attracted international attention, the country’s health watchdog criticised “serious shortcomings” in nursing homes, which account for nearly half of Sweden’s 6,400 Covid-19 deaths.

The prime minister, Stefan Löfven, admitted in May that the country had failed to protect its elderly, and the watchdog said none of Sweden’s 21 regions had taken sufficient responsibility for the treatment of infected care home residents, with a fifth of patients having received no individual assessment by doctors.

Russia’s deputy prime minister, Tatiana Golikova, said on Tuesday the country’s coronavirus situation was becoming “more complicated” with the onset of autumn and winter. Russia recorded a record 25,173 new daily infections on Monday.





No.8 article:
&#x27;Drinks on the pavement&#x27;: UK scientists on their Christmas plans

Three different households will be allowed to mix inside, but most experts are being cautious 

“It is the season to be jolly – but it’s also the season to be jolly careful,” said Boris Johnson, ahead of setting out plans to ease coronavirus restrictions for five days over the festive season. Three different households will be allowed to mix inside as part of the plan agreed by all UK nations. But leading scientists have sounded a note of caution. Here is what they plan to do to this Christmas.

Dr Julian Tang, clinical virologist and honorary associate professor in the respiratory sciences department at the University of Leicester

We’ve agreed to just have Christmas via Zoom/telephone link as we think this is safest. We’re quite used to this now and have been doing it mostly this way for the past 10 months – except for a brief respite in the summer.

Some people cannot survive on just an internet connection, others can – and I think people will make their own risk assessment, based on their own individual needs and circumstances.

Prof Devi Sridhar, chair of global public health at the University of Edinburgh

I’m planning a quiet Christmas. I usually go abroad to see family and take some holiday in a hot place (I’m originally from Miami) but given the pandemic, I am staying home within my bubble and planning to meet up with friends outside under current Scottish government guidance.

Prof Susan Michie, director of the Centre for Behaviour Change at University College London and member of the government’s Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Behavioural Science (SPI-B)

We have several households that usually come together, but we will limit this. With one household who usually joins us for Christmas Day we are planning to have drinks on the pavement before lunch.

We will probably spend more time outside and less inside, with more distancing, ventilation and lots of warm clothes! I think everybody will be very careful and inevitably it is going to be low-key. But we will focus on talking about future summer holidays and celebrations, as well as enjoying the day.

Peter Openshaw, professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London

I am certainly going to stay within any rules that are decided. 

Even though I am pretty sure quite a few of the next generation have already caught it either because they work in the health service or they live in London, I am still assuming they could be infectious and not symptomatic. So the fact that they are well I am not allowing to influence my judgment about whether it is safe to go close to them unfortunately.

Prof Christina Pagel, director of the Clinical Operational Research Unit at UCL and a member of the Independent Sage group of scientists

It all depends on the Covid situation in December but our plan is to be extra careful (no meetings outside the household) the 10 days before Christmas, so we can then celebrate with my parents who are both in the extremely vulnerable category. My sister has three teenage kids, so I think they plan to isolate at home for 10 days after school and then see my parents (and me!) after 28 December.

Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group

I will be pondering about the year just gone, celebrating the amazing team of researchers around the world who have worked tirelessly throughout, and the trial participants, the unsung heroes, who have worked with us on developing a vaccine in record time … and enjoying some downtime with my longsuffering family!





No.9 article:
Fiji gripped as attorney general investigated for cold-case bomb attack

Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum, known as ‘A-to-Z’ because of his huge range of government portfolios, faces allegations he was involved in fatal 1987 blast

On Tuesday, one of Fiji’s most powerful men, attorney general Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum, was awarded the country’s highest civilian honour, invested as a Companion of the Order of Fiji at a grand ceremony.

The previous day, he had had to present himself at a Suva police station to submit to an interview over allegations he was involved in a fatal bombing attack on political rivals more than 30 years ago.

The extraordinary case of Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum – known as “A to Z” in political circles because of the breadth of his political influence – is front-page news in Fiji, and has fuelled existing political divisions, as well as the simmering ethnic tensions between indigenous Taukei and Indo-Fijians, an underlying faultline in much of Fiji’s tumultuous political history.

Sayed-Khaiyum is one of the most influential figures in the Fiji government, the secretary general of the ruling FijiFirst party, and widely regarded as the power behind the throne of prime minister Frank Bainimarama. Articulate and forceful, beyond attorney general he is the minister for justice, aviation, communication, climate change, economy, the public service, and anti-corruption, giving him enormous authority over government policy.

There are few across the archipelago without an opinion on Sayed-Khaiyum, or his case. His defenders dismiss the allegations as racially and politically motivated. Online, his accusers have changed their facebook profile pictures to a yellow t-shirt inscribed with words demanding justice and for him to stand down.

It is alleged Sayed-Khaiyum was involved in two bombing attacks on political rivals in Suva in the aftermath of the 1987 military coups that installed Major-General Sitiveni Rabuka’s caretaker government.

Sayed-Khaiyum has not commented on the allegations, and has declined to stand aside as attorney general while he is being investigated, saying only “we will let the due process take its course”.

In July this year, formal complaints were filed with Fiji police by Veronica Malani, 47, her father, 86-year-old former parliamentarian Ratu Filimone Ralogaivau, and brother Ratu Benedito Ralogaivau, 46, a Melbourne resident and Victoria police officer. The complaints allege Sayed-Khaiyum planted the bombs which killed one bystander, while causing “severe injuries” to Malani and her mother.

In their police statements, obtained by the Guardian, they allege Sayed-Khaiyum, then 22, was part of an Indo-Fijian pro-democracy group known as the Fiji Freedom Fighters, responsible for detonating explosives at two separate locations on 17 and 18 October in 1987.

Malani alleges her family was targeted by Sayed-Khaiyum’s “terrorist attacks” because her parliamentarian father had “switched sides”, joining Rabuka’s military caretaker government after he led a coup deposing a democratically elected Indo-Fijian majority labour government, of which he had been a member.

Ratu Benedito, then 13 years old, claims that on 17 October, he was with his mother in Suva city when they were attacked while waiting for a bus.

“I observed a young male in his early 20s approach us … place a box on the ground near my mother … then walk away,” he alleged.

He claims that his mother sent him “to buy cream buns from across the bus stop” and while he was walking back to her, he saw the same man “using his right hand to throw something back at the box”.

“He then turned and ran. I saw the item thrown landed on the box and a deafening roar of an explosion ... grey smoke filled the streets.”

Ratu Benedito claims when he reached his mother “the footpath was soaked with blood”, with another man fatally hurt and his mother injured. “There were severe burns and blood pouring out of her wound,” he claimed.

A day later, on 18 October, Ratu Benedito’s mother was attacked again, this time at home, in the company of her 14-year-old daughter, Veronica Malani.

“I was standing on our driveway with my mum at our Suva home when a car drove past and threw a package down our driveway which instantly exploded,” Malani has alleged in her statement to police. “We were seriously injured and taken to hospital. My right arm, right finger, right thigh and the right side of my body were badly injured and burned.”

She claims that she witnessed “who threw the package”.

In their claims to police, Malani and Ratu Benedito state that a week after the attacks they were taken to the Totogo police station in the capital, after the criminal investigations department identified two suspects.

They allege the person they had identified at the time was Sayed-Khaiyum. “I believe Sayed-Kahiyum’s intention was to kill me and my mother,” alleges Malani.

Following the police investigation this year, a brief of evidence was sent to the director of public prosecutions (DPP) to decide whether charges would be laid against the attorney general. But the DPP, Christopher Pryde, sent the file back within a week, instructing police to conduct “further investigations”.

A police spokeswoman confirmed the investigation but said the force could not “divulge further information and are looking into the issues outlined” by the DPP.

The allegations against Sayed-Khaiyum remain under investigation. No charges have been laid, and the allegations have not been tested in court.

The Guardian has not received a reply to detailed questions put to Sayed-Khaiyum regarding the allegations made against him, or on his refusal to step down from his government portfolios while he is under investigation.

The Guardian has also put questions about the bombing and its investigation to Bainimarama, former prime minister Sitiveni Rabuka, and to Fiji police’s acting commissioner Rusiate Tudravu. No response has been received.

This article was amended to correct Veronica Malani and her brother’s age at the time of the attack





No.10 article:
Indigenous man and granddaughter, 12, handcuffed after trying to open bank account

Maxwell Johnson, of the Heiltsuk Nation, launches two human rights complaints after arrest at Vancouver bank in December

An Indigenous man in Canada has launched two human rights complaints after he and his 12-year old granddaughter were arrested and handcuffed as they tried to open a bank account.

Maxwell Johnson, a member of the Heiltsuk Nation, visited a Vancouver branch of the Bank of Montreal in December to open an account for his granddaughter Tori-Anne.

But bank staff did not believe the two were Indigenous after failing to verify the authenticity of their government-issued Indian status cards. Staff were also suspicious about the size of a deposit in Johnson’s account, prompting an employee to call the police.

In a transcript of the call to police, released by the Heiltsuk Nation, bank staff alleged the two were committing fraud, telling police the two had presented “fake” identifications. The employee also told the dispatcher that Johnson and his granddaughter were “South Asian”.

“It gets so tiring trying to prove who you are as a First Nations person,” Johnson told the Canadian Press.

Bank staff expressed concerns after numbers in Tori-Anne’s status card didn’t match a database and they saw a recent C$30,000 deposit in Johnson’s account – part of an Aboriginal rights settlement – even though Johnson presented bank staff with his status card, birth certificate and client card.

When police officers arrived, they put both Johnson and his granddaughter in handcuffs. According to a police report, the officers believed Tori-Anne was “16 or 17”, but removed the handcuffs after they realized she was 12.

Johnson has accused the Vancouver police department and the Bank of Montreal of racism in complaints at the British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal and the Canadian Human Rights Commission.

“It’s affected me quite a bit,” said Johnson. “When this happened to us, my anxiety just went through the roof. I started counselling again. It’s affected my motivation, my thought process, quite a bit of stuff.”

The bank and Vancouver police have apologized for the incident. The bank has created an Indigenous advisory council and new training for staff. Vancouver police said they are reviewing current policy, but both organizations deny the incident that race was involved.

Members of the Heiltsuk Nation, however, say Johnson is owed justice.

“From the BMO manager deciding our members didn’t belong, to the 911 call to police, to the cuffing, detention and questioning of Max and his granddaughter about how they came to be at the bank, this was a clear case of racial profiling and systemic racism,” Marilyn Slett, chief councillor of the Heiltsuk Nation, said in a statement.

“Max and his granddaughter deserve justice for the pain this incident caused, and BMO and the VPD must take steps to ensure this never happens again.”





No.11 article:
Saudi Arabia to put women’s rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul on trial

Family fears activist being pressured into giving false confessions

Saudi Arabia will put women’s rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul on trial on Wednesday, more than 900 days after she was detained, and just after the country wrapped up hosting duties on a virtual G20 summit, her family have been told.

Hathloul is on hunger strike and has been held incommunicado for nearly a month. A UN women’s rights committee recently expressed alarm about her failing health. Her sister Lina al-Hathloul fears she is being pressured into giving false confessions that could be used against her in court.

“I am extremely worried and anxious about this trial. Everything about her case is illegal and unjust,” Lina told the Guardian, pointing out that the family had only been given one day’s notice of the court date.

“I hope tomorrow will be the end of this nightmare,” she added. Previous planned court appearances have been cancelled at the last minute.

Hathloul was arrested with nine other women’s rights advocates in May 2018, months before women were finally granted the right to drive. Her family, including her sister, claim she has been tortured. At least five of those arrested remain in jail.

Ahead of the G20 summit – which had women’s empowerment as one of its themes – Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the UK had said the country was considering “clemency” for jailed female activists, even though most have not been found guilty of any crime or even had a day in court.

Khalid bin Bandar bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud said a debate was under way in the foreign ministry about whether their continued detention was causing Saudi Arabia so much political damage that it was not worthwhile. However, the meeting came and went without any of them being released.

The US president, Donald Trump, and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman have been close allies, their bond helping blunt international scrutiny of the country’s handling of dissent and Saudi Arabia’s bloody intervention in Yemen.

The looming transfer of presidential power to Joe Biden will increase pressure on Riyadh over its human rights record. Violations range from the gruesome murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a Saudi consulate by a squad of state killers, to detentions of women’s rights campaigners and death sentences for juvenile offenders.

Biden has promised to review US-Saudi relations, including Washington’s support for the Saudi intervention in Yemen.

Business ties will continue, however. US dependence on Saudi oil has fallen markedly as a result of domestic shale gas production, but the kingdom’s political stability is still a key US concern. The Saudi government sent a message of congratulations to Joe Biden on Sunday.







No.12 article:
We would like to hear from those who have had to stay at home and self-isolate

We would like to hear from workers who have had to self-isolate – either after testing positive for Covid-19 or after being instructed to do so via test and trace after coming into contact with someone positive.

Was self-isolating a difficult decision to make? Can you afford to self-isolate? What support have you had from your employer? Have you received statutory sick pay? How are you coping at this time? What impact is this having on your household/family? Do you have any concerns?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.13 article:
About 70 Tory MPs could rebel when plans for England restrictions are put to vote

The government will be forced to rely on Labour support to pass new tiered coronavirus restrictions in England with about 70 MPs believed to be considering rebelling when the measures are put to parliament next week.

The Guardian understands that Labour support for the new system is not yet guaranteed, with widespread frustration among senior party figures that ultimatums put on the government to fix contact tracing and better support for those self-isolating has had little effect.

Tory MPs from across the country have been privately lobbying for the tiered system to be applied on a much smaller geographical basis where Covid cases are highest, including in London, which is still reporting a rise in cases.

“There will be a lot of Conservatives who will rebel for the first time this time round,” one former minister said. “It only takes 40 for the government’s majority to fall and we had 38 at the last vote.”

One long-serving Conservative backbencher said the government appeared set on restrictions at a county level. “So even if you’re 40 miles away from an area of high infection, you’re treated the same way, even if there’s no point of contact and not much exchange of people. If they gave way on this, it might suggest a bit of common sense in the approach,” the MP said.

“Some places have infection rates below the national average, and if they were shoved into very heavy restrictions purely on the basis they’re in the same county as other areas with higher rates, while places just over the county border are in a lower tier, that would be pretty hard to accept.”

Another MP said it would “go down very badly” if most of the country was placed in either tier 2 or 3, which both have significant restrictions on the hospitality sector. A fund for local authorities hit by tier 2 or 3 restrictions will have an additional £900m in addition to £780m committed to date, which suggests the majority of local areas will be under those restrictions.

David Jones, the former Brexit minister, predicted the government would face a significant rebellion next week. “The government has to produce significant, persuasive new evidence produced that what they are doing is right, and so far we have not seen that,” he said.

MPs on the parliamentary WhatsApp group have been calling tier 3 “lockdown in all but name” and fear there will be no further opportunity to challenge the restrictions until the spring. Even MPs in shire constituencies where local restrictions may be more lax have been privately voicing concern that local businesses will collapse if travel is restricted across swathes of the UK meaning no tourist trade to rural areas.

Among those who have said they are considering rebelling is the chair of the 1922 Committee of backbench Tory MPs, Sir Graham Brady.

Brady, whose constituency in Greater Manchester had already been under tighter measures before lockdown said “my inclination would be to oppose” the new tougher tiered system.

“My concern is that huge numbers of businesses, particularly but not exclusively in the hospitality sector, have been losing money under tier 2 already, and there’s a very tight limit to how much longer than they can go on doing without seeing even bigger levels of unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment.”

The government is also facing a backlash from local leaders over a lack of consultation over the tiered allocations.

The transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said “individual negotiations” had led to rates of infection increasing, a thinly veiled attack on the Greater Manchester mayor, Andy Burnham, who had demanded better financial support for local businesses.

Burnham hit back at those remarks, telling Sky News: “It just seems to me that they can’t leave it alone now and they want to come back and they want to punish me and blame me for everything.

“Can’t we just agree there was a difference of opinion, it was resolved and now we all must look forward to getting things right going forward. If they don’t get their own way they take their toys home and just try and impose their will. That is not a responsible way to govern.”





No.14 article:
Country offers to share technology, saying results positive for the entire world

Russia has said that its coronavirus vaccine has more than 95% efficacy according to new preliminary data, giving it a success rate comparable to vaccines being developed by Pfizer and Moderna.

Russian officials also claimed their vaccine had greater efficacy than the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine because of Russia’s proprietary technology, which it offered to share with British scientists.

“Sputnik shows very high effectiveness, higher than 95%,” Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said during a briefing on Tuesday. “This is indisputably positive news not just for Russia, but for the entire world, for all countries.”

The preliminary results were released as competition heats up among vaccine developers to mass produce a coronavirus jab and help bring the pandemic to an end.

Not everyone is convinced by Russia’s official data, however, and suspicions have been increased by the fact Russian authorities speedily licensed the vaccine before the results of stage three trials were available, as well as reports of state employees being coerced into taking part in trials.

While numerous countries have expressed an interest in studying or purchasing the vaccine, few western countries have signed up. Among EU nations, only Hungary has expressed a serious interest, causing friction with other members of the bloc. A spokesman for the European commission said the body “does not have any data regarding this Russian vaccine,” Interfax reported on Tuesday evening.

The Sputnik results were computed after 42 days of a study in which 19,000 participants received two doses of the vaccine and 21,000 participants received a single dose. Earlier data showed that the vaccine had an approximately 91.4% efficacy 28 days after participants received the first dose.

Top officials, including Dmitriev, claim to have taken the vaccine and have said they feel fine. The Kremlin said on Monday that Vladimir Putin had not had a coronavirus jab, with a spokesman saying that the president could not take part in a medical trial.

“After all, the president can’t use an uncertified vaccine,” said Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman.

A successful vaccine is Russia’s key to emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic, which has infected more than 2.15 million people in the country and is currently spreading at a record pace. Vladimir Putin and many regional heads have been hesitant to introduce a broad lockdown similar to earlier this year out of concern for the harm to the country’s economy.

The Russian prime minister Mikhail Mishustin said that the country’s priority was for Russians to have access to the vaccine. “Every person in every region in the country should have the possibility to be vaccinated against the disease,” he said, adding that: “Nobody is going to be forced to do this.”

But the vaccine’s development at Russia’s Gamaleya research institute has also been driven by the economic allure of selling it abroad and national pride in the country’s scientific prowess that has earned comparisons to the cold war space race, when the Soviet Unions’s Sputnik 1 was the world’s first satellite to be launched into orbit around the Earth.

Dmitriev, who has been tasked with selling the vaccine abroad, said that a dose of the vaccine would cost no more than $10 (£7.50) on international markets – about half the cost of the Pfizer vaccine.

He predicted that more than 1bn doses would be produced in the next year in countries including India, Korea, Brazil, China, and Hungary, the first, and so far the only, EU country to express a serious interest in the Russian vaccine.

Ten sample batches arrived in Budapest on a temperature-controlled flight last week.

Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orbán, who is currently in dispute with other European leaders over plans to link EU budget funds to rule of law criteria, has been criticised in the past for his friendly relations with the Kremlin.

The Hungarian government said it has made preliminary orders for a number of different vaccines, including those manufactured in Russia and China, and Orbán has promised that individual citizens would be able to choose which vaccine to take.

“As vaccination will not be compulsory, if there are several vaccines, everyone will be able to decide for themselves which one they trust most: whether they prefer the business-centred approach of a US corporation, the state-developed Russian vaccine, or the Chinese one,” he said.

Hungary’s foreign minister Péter Szijjártó said Hungarian scientists were now trialling the Russian vaccine in laboratories, “so that they’ll be able to make a well-based decision on its possible usability and licensing”.

However, under EU rules, the vaccine must be authorised by the European Medicines Agency before any member states can approve it for general use.

“The question arises whether a member state would want to administer to its citizens a vaccine that has not been reviewed by the EMA,” a European commission spokesperson told Reuters last week, adding that using an untested vaccine could have the result of lowering confidence in vaccines in general among the population.

The Hungarian-American financier and philanthropist George Soros, who has been the target of a long-running smear campaign by the Orbán government, last week wrote in an article that Hungary’s interest in the Russian vaccine “deserves to be investigated” given previous allegations of corruption against the Hungarian prime minister’s inner circle. Soros pointed out that Hungary appears to have paid up to 50 times more for ventilators than Germany, leading some to question the motives behind the deals.

In response, Orbán called Soros “the most corrupt man in the world” and said his advice on which vaccines to buy was not welcome. “It isn’t Soros’s job to decide which vaccines are good and which aren’t. That is for laboratories to decide and the Hungarian people, who will be free to choose from among several vaccines.”





No.15 article:
Iraqi deputy PM says economy in crisis and &#x27;riddled with corruption&#x27;

Minor jobs at border posts changing hands for up to $100,000, says Ali Allawi

Iraq’s economy is so riddled with corruption that minor border post jobs are changing hands for as much as $100,000, Iraq’s deputy prime minister, Ali Allawi, has admitted.

In an extraordinarily frank speech about his government’s efforts to introduce reforms, he said there were no quick wins, adding the economy would probably remain in “existential crisis so long as oil does not reach $70 a barrel for a sustained period” and called for cuts in public spending as its revenues fall short.

Allawi said only a tenth of the $8bn due annually to the Iraqi treasury arrived from border customs, in contrast to Jordan, where 97% was received. He said border customs “are riddled with corruption to the point where minor clerks’ jobs in some outposts change there for $50,000 to $100,000 and sometimes it goes up to multiples of that”.

He likened Iraq’s situation to the coming of the dry season at a lake in Africa “where the fish become more frenzied as the oxygen levels reduce … many of these people did not know how to extract rent from this dwindling pool”.

The new government of Mustafa al-Kadhimi, in which Allawi is also the finance minister, came to power in May following extended and sometimes violent street protests. It has introduced a massive economic reform white paper ahead of elections due next year.

Allawi said: “On the assumption that oil prices don’t move up, something somewhere has to give – either we follow a sort of Venezuela course and become an oil economy that goes belly up, or we tighten our belts.”

He said “nobody’s going to be for belt-tightening”, but claimed there was a subliminal recognition that things had to change. Current levels of public spending were unsustainable, he said.

“It requires, I must say, that somebody has to say ‘no’ at some point and now, I suppose this has fallen to me to say ‘no’ but you can only say ‘no’, up to a point, or then they will say ‘no’ to you.”

Allawi said: “A lot of the country’s problems are interlocking and whenever there is an issue that requires resolution, there’s bound to be some vested interest, sometimes extremely powerful, that stop this from happening.

“People say, ‘Why not go after low-hanging fruit.’ There really is no such thing as low-hanging fruit if the entire environment around you is to a large extent devastated.”

Iraq, Opec’s second largest producer, has been struggling to pay public salaries due to dwindling oil revenues as the coronavirus pandemic hits crude prices. In October, the federal government earned only $3.45bn (£2.58bn) in oil export revenues, which is not enough to cover salaries, benefits and other essential expenses.

Iraq has also failed for most of this year to adhere to its Opec+ quota due to its financial and political struggles.

If Iraq’s Kurdistan region is included, Iraq pumped out 3.842m barrels a day in October, up from September’s 3.6m and exceeding its Opec+ quota of 3.804m.

Allawi said Iraq’s acceptance of the Opec model of “one size fits all” – allocating output cuts without taking into account member countries’ economic and political conditions – was close to breaking point, suggesting Iraq may leave the network.

Discussing the role of US troops in Iraq, he said: “In terms of the significance of US presence, it’s moved from being sort of essential to stability to being somewhat ornamental.” The US has 3,000 troops in the country, but the numbers are set to fall to 2,500 in January, before Joe Biden’s inauguration.

Iraq’s national security adviser, Qasim Al-Araji, said US policies had pushed armed groups in Iraq to escalate. The killings of the Iraqi militia leader Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis and the leader of the Iranian Quds force, Qassem Suleimani, had “undoubtedly made the situation worse. Iraq has been a victim of these regional conflicts and disputes.”





No.16 article:
Russian warship &#x27;threatens to ram&#x27; US destroyer

Russia says Admiral Vinogradov threatened the USS John S McCain in the Pacific for ‘operating illegally’

A Russian warship has allegedly threatened to ram a US destroyer during a rare naval standoff between the two countries in the waters off Russia’s Pacific coast.

Russia said on Tuesday that the Admiral Vinogradov, a destroyer, threatened the USS John S McCain, a US navy guided-missile destroyer, for “operating illegally” in its territorial waters in the Sea of Japan.

The US Navy said its vessel had been in international waters as it carried out a “freedom of navigation” operation to assert its rights and challenge what it said were Russia’s excessive maritime claims. The US ship retreated to neutral waters, Moscow claimed.

Russia and the US regularly scramble aircraft to intercept each other’s bombers and surveillance aircraft as they veer on provocative flight paths near international borders. Russian pilots appear to take pleasure in unnerving their American counterparts, and the US has complained about the intercepts being “unsafe”.

But it is rarer for the two countries’ ships to challenge or threaten to ram one another. In January, a Russian military ship came within 60 yards of the USS Farragut, a destroyer, in the North Arabian Sea. The US complained that the ship behaved “aggressively”. Another near-collision came near the Philippines in 2019 between a US guided missile cruiser and a Russian destroyer.

On Tuesday, Russia said its Pacific Fleet warship had been tracking the American destroyer in the Peter the Great Gulf, and that the US vessel had violated Russia’s territorial waters at 0317 GMT by going 2km beyond the sea border.

“… the US will never bow in intimidation or be coerced into accepting illegitimate maritime claims, such as those made by the Russian Federation,” said Lt Joe Keiley, 7th Fleet spokesperson.

“The Russian Federation’s statement about this mission is false,” he said. “USS John S McCain was not ‘expelled’ from any nation’s territory.”

The US destroyer made no further attempts to enter Russian waters after leaving the area, Moscow said. The Admiral Vinogradov was continuing to observe its movements and another vessel, a corvette, was dispatched to the area, it added.

Such incidents at sea are rare but they underscore the poor diplomatic and military relations between Russia and the US, whose ties are languishing at a post-cold war low.

• This article was amended on 30 November 2020 to correct the spelling of the USS Farragut.





No.17 article:
Police officers filmed pulling up tents and leaving people thrown to ground

The French government is facing growing anger over the “shocking” use of excessive force by police dismantling a protest refugee camp in central Paris.

Officers were filmed tipping migrants out of tents, slamming riot shields into individuals, chasing people down streets and attacking refugees, journalists and others with truncheons and teargas.

The criticism comes as the government is already under fire for a new law that would give police greater powers and is viewed as a threat to the freedom of the press.

The Paris mayor, Anne Hidalgo, also expressed outrage at what she called police violence and said the breaking up of the camp was a “denial of France’s humanitarian duty”.

“Present at the time, elected representatives of Paris city and of parliament reported, once again, the use of disproportionate and brutal force, confirmed by the many photographs that were taken. Unfortunately, this unacceptable episode is not without precedent,” Hidalgo wrote in a letter to the interior minister, Gérald Darmanin.

Darmanin, who described the photos and videos of the police operation as shocking, said he had received a report from police chiefs and would ask the IGPN – the force’s internal disciplinary body – to look into “several unacceptable” incidents.

Darmanin said he expected the inquiry to report back within 48 hours and promised to make the conclusions public.

The Paris public prosecutor announced it had opened an official investigation for “violence by a person in public authority” following a complaint by journalist Rémy Buisine that he was assaulted several times by one officer as he covered the protest on Monday evening.

It followed the prosecutor opening a similar investigation after seeing a video of a police officer deliberately tripping up a migrant as he ran from the police. 

Police and gendarmes were sent in late on Monday to clear a camp from the square in central Paris. About 450 refugees had set up tents at the request of the charity Utopia 56 to protest against the forcible clearing of migrants from makeshift shelters in the northern suburb of Saint-Denis. While some of those evacuated were provided with temporary accommodation, scores of migrants were left wandering the streets.

Before the protest camp was set up at Place de la République, Utopia 56 had issued a statement demanding the authorities provide shelter for the estimated 3,000 homeless migrants sleeping rough in and around the French capital.

As night fell, police and gendarmes arrived to clear the square. Officers were filmed pulling up tents and throwing people to the ground.

Lawyers, MPs and city councillors in Place de la République tried to calm tensions and stop the police action, without success.

Police used teargas and crowd dispersal grenades to break up groups of people, and journalists said they were deliberately targeted.

The police operation came at a delicate time for the French government, which is facing widespread criticism for a new law that would make it illegal to disseminate images of police officers in certain circumstances. Darmanin has vigorously defended Article 24 of the law, which would require media to obscure the faces of police officers, as “protecting those who protect us”.

The law, seen by many as a direct threat to press freedom, also authorises police use of drones and facial recognition technology. It has passed its first reading in the Assemblée Nationale.

The United Nations human rights council has raised concerns about the law, while France’s own independent defender of rights, Claire Hédon, has expressed her reservations, saying she is especially concerned about the “envisaged restrictions concerning the publishing of images of police agents while on duty” and guarantees that these would not threaten “either the freedom of the press or the right to information”.

A statement from the police prefecture said the organisation of ad-hoc migrant camps in the city was “not acceptable” and that its officers had “therefore set about the immediate dispersion of this illegal occupation of a public space”.

Ian Brossat, a deputy Paris mayor in charge of housing, who was present, condemned the police operation and said the only solution was for the state to find housing for the homeless.

“This problem is not one for the police to sort out. To think that we resolve social problems with truncheons is totally crazy,” Brossat said. “As long as there is no available housing, there will be people living outside, and as long as there are people living outside, there will be camps. To think we can solve that with the police harassment we have seen this evening is pathetic.”

Éric Coquerel, an MP for the leftwing La France Insoumise party, who was present at Place de la République on Monday, told FranceInfo: “What we saw was repression that is sadly not that unusual but was completely disproportionate. Was there a risk to the police officers? No. Was there a risk of damage to property? No. Instead there was a repression that fell, I remind you, on people who are only demanding that their human rights are respected, on peaceful activists, on journalists and elected representatives without discrimination.”

After the death of the French delivery driver Cédric Chouviat, who said “I’m suffocating” several times as police held him to the ground – an echo of George Floyd’s death in the US – Darmanin caused an outcry in July when he told the Assemblée Nationale: “When I hear the words ‘police violence’ personally, it’s me who suffocates.”

He added: “The police certainly exercise a violence, but it’s legitimate violence … after that, it has to be done in a proportional manner, within a framework. That a few people do so outside of the professional rules, punishment should be immediate. But it’s normal that the police and gendarmes are armed, intervene with force, so that the force remains with the republic and is not subject to the law of gangs or communities.”

Asked about police violence last year in the wake of the gilets jaunes protests, against which law and order forces used teargas, pepper spray, water cannon and rubber bullets, the president, Emmanuel Macron, responded: “Don’t talk of ‘repression’ or ‘police violence’; these words are unacceptable in a legal state.”





No.18 article:
Rescuers recover migrants&#x27; wedding rings lost at sea

Algerian couple were survivors of a shipwreck in October off the coast of Lampedusa, Italy

On 9 November, a migrant rescue boat came across a red backpack floating in the Mediterranean alongside other remains from a shipwreck that took place weeks before. The rucksack, covered with sea snails and reeking of petrol, contained two wedding rings, inscribed with the names Ahmed and Doudou.

“We thought it was proof of yet another love story that ended up at the bottom of the sea,” said Riccardo Gatti, the president of the NGO Open Arms in Italy, who recovered the personal items. “Unfortunately we find many of these. Most of the time suitcases and bags, floating in the sea, are nothing more than symbols of yet another journey that began in Libya and ended in tragedy.”

Nevertheless, as it always does, Open Arms activated a procedure to try to trace the owners of the belongings by sharing the photos on their social channels and among their networks of contacts. “What happened next was exciting,” Gatti said.

Thanks to an article published in the newspaper La Repubblica that carried photos of the rings, the charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF) discovered they belonged to a newlywed Algerian couple, Ahmed, 25, and Doudou, 20.

The couple, who were staying at a reception centre in Sicily, were among 15 survivors of a shipwreck that took place off the coast of the island of Lampedusa on 21 October in which five people died.

“As soon as they showed us the photos of the rings, I couldn’t believe it,” Ahmed said in a message passed on by MSF. ‘‘We had lost everything and now the few things we set out with on the journey have been found. It’s incredible.

“The rings were in the backpack because they had broken and we wanted to have them repaired once we arrived in Europe,” Ahmed added. ‘’None of my travel companions managed to recover anything. We are very happy but we are still mourning our friends who didn’t make it.”

Ahmed and Doudou told aid workers that they had left Zawiya in Libya on a small wooden boat with 20 other people on 19 October. Forty-eight hours into the crossing, however, their petrol ran out and the boat was left at the mercy of the sea, with weather conditions starting to deteriorate.

Ester Russo, a psychologist at MSF who spoke to the couple, said survivors from the shipwreck had told of a big wave that hit about 60km off Lampedusa.

“The 15 people onboard were saved by a Sicilian fishing boat,” Russo said. “Five people died, including a two-year-old girl. Her mother was shocked. Time stopped for her when she no longer saw her daughter. On that same trip a nine-year-old child lost his mother and is now alone in Italy.”

Ahmad Al Rousan, a cultural mediator for MSF in Sicily, said Doudou was trying to recover from the trauma of the journey.

“She is still in shock from what happened,” Rousan said. “She saw five travel companions die in front of her eyes, including a child. But both she and Ahmed are fine.”

The backpack containing their rings is still onboard the Open Arms ship. which is off the coast of Sicily.

“We washed everything in the backpack onboard, including clothes and T-shirts,” said Gatti. “We can’t wait to deliver it to Ahmed and Doudou. It was a strong emotion for us too. It’s not just about objects. These bags that we often find are all these people have. Like these rings, a symbol of a love that fortunately, at least this time, the Mediterranean has spared.”





No.19 article:
US states break new coronavirus records as hospitals brace for Thanksgiving surge

The US has had 12,408,900 confirmed cases and more than 257,500 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University. On Monday, more than 85,700 people were hospitalized with the illness as healthcare workers warned of overwhelmed clinics and emergency rooms.

The daily average of cases is the highest it has ever been across the country. There were twice as many new cases a day as there were two weeks ago in nine states: Arizona, California, Delaware, Louisiana, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Pennsylvania and Vermont.

In the country’s most populous state, California, there were more than 30,000 cases over the weekend, prompting a flurry of new restrictions. Los Angeles is set to shut down restaurant dining on Wednesday and officials were expected to announce another lockdown.

Barbara Ferrer, the LA county health director, said in a statement: “The persistent high number of cases requires additional safety measures that limit mixing in settings where people are not wearing masks.”

In Phoenix, medical workers warned of shrinking space in intensive care units (ICUs) and emergency rooms as cases spiked in the region. The former US surgeon general, Dr Richard Carmona, said cases in Arizona were too high given the expected increase in cases following the holidays. There were 2,659 cases reported in the state on Monday – the highest since early July.

Carmona, who is part of a team at the University of Arizona studying coronavirus trends, told KTAR News: “We’re getting up to the level where our resources are being depleted to a very critical point.”

With cases rising across the US, hospitals and testing centers have warned of a strain in resources that could be worsened by travel and gatherings over the Thanksgiving holiday this week.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advised people to stay home and not travel for the Thanksgiving holiday, but more people traveled this past weekend than have since the pandemic began.

The nation’s top infectious diseases expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, warned on Monday that “we are in a very steep escalation of cases” in an interview with Washington Post Live. He said that if people continued to ignore public health warnings by traveling, gathering in groups and not wearing masks, it would likely result in “a surge superimposed on a surge”.

Fauci and other medical experts have warned that the effect of holiday travel and gatherings this week won’t be seen for several weeks because of the lag between when the infection occurs and when it is detected in a test or results in hospitalization or death.

Fauci, the director of the National Institutes of Health and a member of the White House Covid-19 taskforce, also said on Monday that he has not yet spoken to president-elect Joe Biden.

That could soon change because on Monday, after weeks of refusal, Donald Trump’s administration authorized Biden to formally begin the presidential transition process. This is crucial for Biden’s Covid-19 response team to be able to prepare its pandemic response for when Biden assumes office on 20 January.





No.20 article:
Photo of celebrity with Israeli pop star causes outcry in Egypt

Mohamed Ramadan suspended from stage and film union over online image

An Egyptian celebrity has sparked an uproar and been suspended from a stage and film professional’s union after a photo of him with an Israeli pop star was posted online.

The outcry over actor-singer Mohamed Ramadan’s photograph with Israeli crooner Omer Adam highlights anti-Israel sentiment among most Egyptians who view any direct interaction with Israelis as taboo.

The controversy began at the weekend when an Emirati journalist, Hamad al-Mazroui, posted a photo of Ramadan with his arm around Adam while both were in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, this month.

“The most famous artist in Egypt with the most famous artist in Israel. Dubai brings us together,” al-Mazroui wrote, before deleting the photo.

An Arabic language Twitter account for the state of Israel quickly retweeted the photo with the caption: “Art brings us together.”

Ahmed Moussa, a well-known TV presenter loyal to the president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, slammed Ramadan’s action as “a full-fledged crime.” He called for the union to take “deterrence measures” to stop further interactions with Israelis.

Ashraf Zaki, head of the Theatrical Professions Syndicate, said late on Monday in video comments that the union decided to suspend Ramadan pending an investigation, which will take place the first week of December since the actor is currently in Dubai.

Under the suspension, Ramadan is banned from acting and singing until the probe is complete.

Egypt became the first Arab country to make peace with Israel in 1979, and the two governments work closely together on security issues. But many Egyptians are still deeply opposed to what they call “popular normalisation” with Israel. Jordan signed its own deal with Israel in 1994.

The UAE agreed earlier this year to establish full diplomatic ties with Israel, followed shortly after by Bahrain and Sudan in US-brokered normalisation deals known as the Abraham Accords.

The deals reflected a changing Middle East in which Israel and the Gulf countries view Iran as a shared threat that eclipses the decades-old conflict with the Palestinians.

Though the normalisation deal with Israel is just months old, the UAE and Bahrain have been working to advance cultural ties and other exchanges between the two countries.

Since the photo and other footage showing Ramadan with Adam spread on social media, many users called on the union to suspend Ramadan.

Ramadan insisted that he did not know that Adam was Israeli. After the outcry, he posted a photo of the Palestinian flag, and a video with what he said was a young Palestinian man.

“I don’t know nor do I ask about the nationality of everyone I take a photo with ... I never ask about his colour, religion, or nationality. All of us are human,” he said.

A journalists’ union also decried Ramadan’s violation of a years-old decision by the Union of Artistic Syndicates that prevents members from normalising ties with Israel. The journalists’ union urged its members to boycott the actor until the end of the ongoing investigation, warning of penalties against those who violate its decision.

Following his suspension, Ramadan said in a Facebook post that he would have declined to be photographed if he had known Adam’s nationality.

There was no comment from the Egyptian government.

Egypt and Israel closely coordinate on security issues, particularly those having to do with the Sinai Peninsula, a mostly desert area that borders Israel and whose northern part is torn by a years-long insurgency waged by Islamic militants.

But most Egyptians associate Israel with the four wars the countries fought against each other from 1948 to 1973. They are deeply opposed to Israel’s policies toward the Palestinians and stand against what they call “popular normalisation” with Israel.





No.21 article:
Health secretary says in future British culture of ‘soldiering on’ when ill must end

The NHS should routinely test people for illnesses such as seasonal flu once the coronavirus pandemic has passed, Matt Hancock has said, adding that he wants to end the UK’s culture of “soldiering on” and going to work while ill, infecting others.

Giving evidence to a Commons committee hearing, the health secretary said the mass testing capacity built up to deal with Covid could be repurposed to detect illnesses such as influenza, and thus limit the community spread of these as a routine intervention.

Hancock said he wanted “this massive diagnostics capacity to be core to how we treat people in the NHS” in the long term.

“Having built this, we must hold on to it,” Hancock told a joint session of the health and science committees. “And afterwards we must use it not just for coronavirus, but everything.

“In fact, I want to have a change in the British way of doing things, where if in doubt, get a test. It doesn’t just refer to coronavirus, but to any illness that you might have.”

Hancock told the hearing, part of an inquiry by the two committees into the lessons of how the UK has dealt with coronavirus, that he hoped to oversee a longer-term reduction in non-Covid respiratory and other communicable diseases dealt with by the NHS.

A key part of this, he said, was persuading people to not risk infecting others when clearly ill. He said: “Why, in Britain, do we think it’s acceptable to soldier on and go into work if you have flu symptoms or a runny nose, thus making your colleagues ill? I think that’s something that is going to have to change.

“In future, I hope, if you have flu-like symptoms, you should get a test for it, and find out what’s wrong with you, and if you need to stay at home to protect others, then you should stay at home.

“We are peculiarly unusual, and outliers, in soldiering on and still going to work, it kind of being the culture that as long as you can get out of bed you still should get into work. That should change.”

Questioned by Jeremy Hunt, the former health secretary, who now chairs the health committee, Hancock said it was possible that some social distancing measures could remain as vaccines are rolled out, until it could be determined how effective the vaccines were at preventing not just symptoms but also transmission.

Hancock added: “After Easter we think that we will be getting back to normal.” Some elements of coronavirus, such as frequent hand washing, were likely to “become commonplace” in the long term, he argued.

In sometimes testy exchanges between the health secretary and his predecessor, Hunt quizzed Hancock over the quality of scientific advice he received, and why the UK did not initially begin mass community testing.

Hancock appeared to partly blame Exercise Cygnus, a 2016 government exercise to model a possible pandemic. Planned when Hunt was health secretary, it took place shortly after he had moved to become foreign secretary.

Hancock said one key problem with the initial response to coronavirus was that Cygnus took as its starting point the idea of a new flu virus already being widespread in the population.

“What it didn’t ask was the prior question of what type of pandemic is most likely; what are the different characteristics of different pandemics, flu or coronavirus being two obvious examples, and can we act to stop getting to the position at which Project Cygnus started off?” Hancock said.





No.22 article:




No.23 article:
The ‘daunting’ hurdles of distributing Covid-19 vaccines in America

The nation will undertake the most logistically challenging vaccination campaign in its history

James English has $74,000 to figure out how to distribute the world’s first ultra-cold storage drug to a staff of skeptical and worn-out healthcare workers, as the major sources of supports to contain Covid-19 so far come to an end.

English is the regional operations chief and health branch director for Covid-19 in Washoe county, Nevada, and is one of the hundreds of local public health directors across the US who will eventually help distribute Covid-19 vaccines. English faces difficulties likely to be encountered nationally, as the nation undertakes the most logistically challenging vaccination campaign in its history.

“The largest hurdle – we have as a small health department – is we do multiple roles,” said English. “Our funding is very minimal.”

Reno is the seat of Washoe county. It is sometimes called the “biggest little city” in America. It is large enough to be a metropolitan area and serve surrounding rural communities, but small enough to have extremely stretched resources.

“Vaccine planning,” said English, “is a huge list for us.”

A recent announcement that a Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Pfizer and BioNTech is 95% effective buoyed the hopes of the world. Similar good news has followed for vaccines developed by Moderna Inc and Astra-Zeneca.

But as America – and the world – celebrates the longed-for good news, there are imminent challenges of distribution.

Among the hurdles: millions of Americans are hesitant to take the vaccine, Pfizer’s drug needs to be stored at -94F (-70C), and public health resources are stretched thin after nearly a year of pandemic response.

“A vaccine is just a vaccine – a vaccination is everything,” said Dr Michael Osterholm, an epidemiologist at the University of Minnesota who has been tapped to be part of the Biden-Harris administration’s 13-member coronavirus advisory board.

No Covid-19 vaccine has been approved for either emergency use or use in the general population, and Pfizer only recently submitted data to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency approval. Further, Pfizer has not yet released the data from its phase III trial to scientific journals or for independent review, and the efficacy rate could change as more data is analyzed.

But scientists are optimistic in the event one receives emergency approval, and planning to distribute a vaccine has been going on for months. Much of that planning has taken place through Operation Warp Speed, which gave companies money to develop a vaccine, manufacture doses and buy syringes and vials.

“My understanding is we could have a vaccine on site within a month or less,” said English. “It may not be approved, but that is what I’m hearing and preparing for.”

Here are the details English is wrestling with: if the Pfizer vaccine it approved, it is a novel vaccine which requires ultra-cold storage. Each suitcase-sized shipping container will have 975 doses in five-dose vials.

The vaccines are viable for 10 days from the moment the case is sealed, and packed with dry ice to keep them cold. The cases can only be opened a maximum of twice a day, for one minute at a time, according to Soumi Saha, an attorney, pharmacist and vice-president of advocacy at the healthcare logistics company Premier Inc.

“The clock starts well before you actually receive the product,” she told the Guardian in an earlier interview.

Luckily, English was able to purchase an ultra-cold freezer from a local university. But the vaccine still must be transported on dry ice from any location away from his deep freezer, and properly diluted before people receive a shot in the arm. Vials last for five days after they are thawed, and for only six hours after they are diluted.

The Pfizer candidate also requires a second shot called a booster 28 days later. State health authorities advised English to give out all the doses he receives, and not keep any for the booster. His department expects to then receive a new tray one day before boosters are due, and go through the entire process of coordinating shots and schedules again.

English has $74,000 for vaccine distribution planning, a job that is increasingly taking up huge chunks of his day. He needs a logistics manager to answer all the questions coming his way, but faces competition in hiring, because the private sector pays more. English is directly competing with companies like Amazon, which has massive warehouses in the area, and is staffing up for a boom in online Christmas shopping.

In addition, English’s department is running out of federal funding for contact tracing. The health department hired one epidemiologist, sometimes called a “disease detective”, with federal money from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (Cares) Act. That funding ends on 31 December, just as vaccines may become available, the virus will probably surge and the Nevada national guard demobilizes.

“As this response continues to move forward, we are doing both the Covid-19 response and contact tracing and disease investigation, and now we’re being asked to plan for distribution of a vaccine,” said English. “We’re using the same planners to do both, we’re using the same nurses,” he said.

English is now wondering, who will make the schedules for the nurses who must test patients for Covid-19 in the morning, and give vaccines in the afternoon? If a healthcare worker refuses a vaccine, do they go to the end of the line, or can they then get a shot anytime?

If side-effects mimic the flu as expected, how can he ensure only a portion of the healthcare workforce is vaccinated on any one day, so staffing remains constant? And, importantly, who will do all the paperwork? Entering information about who received the vaccine takes between five and 15 minutes per patient.

“It will take longer to do the paperwork on the back end than to have someone drive throughout, verify their paperwork and give the vaccination,” said English.

Osterholm said he has heard from local health departments who have struggled to deal with the “top-down” approach from Operation Warp Speed, the vaccination development initiative led by the military and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

“I have heard over and over real frustrations with a top-down approach that, unfortunately, doesn’t account for the expertise and the situational awareness of the on-ground groups,” said Osterholm.

This is to say nothing of the challenges that will be faced by rural communities, who will lose days of vaccine viability as doses are shipped overland; of the existing dry ice shortage; of vaccine hesitancy; and of how the government will work with private enterprises such as commercial pharmacies.

“We’ve got a lot of road ahead in the next two months,” said Dr Umair Shah, the executive director of the Harris county health department in Texas, where Houston is the biggest city.

“You’ve got to be very, very methodical and thoughtful how public health departments are pulled into the spectrum, because our teams are stretched and have been stretched for months,” said Shah. In October, he took his first day off since the pandemic began. “Now, we’re adding the vaccine on top of it.”

Experts at the highest level also said it will ultimately be health workers on the ground, like English, who may help realize the goal of vaccinating millions of people.

“There is a huge logistics barrier to overcome, that we cannot minimize,” said Dr Leana Wen, an emergency room doctor and the former health commissioner for Baltimore, Maryland. “It is a daunting challenge.”

English tackles these questions with optimism. Prior pandemic planning, existing vaccination infrastructure, a mission-driven workforce and the potential for the federal government to send significant resources once the Biden-Harris administration takes office could all help the effort.

“The Washoe county health district has been very active in vaccine planning,” said English. “I think we will be able to pull this off.”





No.24 article:
UK government &#x27;needs to come clean&#x27; on funding for Nigerian police

Protests against Sars security unit in west African country were violently suppressed 

Labour has called for the UK government to consider suspending the funding and training of security forces in Nigeria, where protests against a notorious police unit were brutally suppressed last month.

Kate Osamor, the MP for Edmonton, said she had serious concerns about a lack of oversight of the UK’s role, especially in relation to the special anti-robbery squad (Sars), which was disbanded in October after allegations of killings and abuse.

The same month, protests against police abuses were brutally suppressed by the Nigerian police and military, which have been authorised to purchase at least £127m-worth of UK registered arms since 2008.

Dozens of protesters were killed, including at least 12 people gunned down by soldiers in Lagos, according to Amnesty International. Despite widespread outrage, the army and Nigerian authorities have denied responsibility, dismissing reports of fatalities and claiming footage showing soldiers at the scene was manipulated. Authorities have also set about clamping down on prominent protesters, critics and media which broadcasted abuses.

Labour is also calling for “independent investigations into the allegations against Sars units, as well as military, security and policing forces responsible for attacks on protesters, that could lead to targeted Magnitsky-style sanctions against responsible individuals”, Osamor tweeted on Tuesday.

At a debate in parliament on Monday night, MPs pressed the government to adopt “individualised sanctions such as travel bans and asset freezes” against individuals accused of abuses.

After initially stating that Sars officers had not received UK support, the UK minister for Africa, James Duddridge, said the unit had received “strategic assistance” and training alongside personnel from the wider Nigerian police force as part of a programme that ran from 2016 to March this year.

Osamor, who heads the Commons all-party parliamentary group on Nigeria, said: “The government now needs to come clean and explain how and why that funding took place in the first place. They owe it to the many who have been killed by Sars units to explain who made the decision to fund those units and why.”

There were “serious concerns about the level of oversight attached to government funding in this area”, she added. “Amnesty International and several other international human rights organisations have been very clear that Sars have been directly involved in extrajudicial killings, torture and corruption. The UK government either knew that and decided it would fund Sars anyway or didn’t know where UK funding was going.”

 A UK Foreign Office spokesperson said: “It is important that the police in Nigeria respect human rights. We have been working with Nigeria to support reforms to ensure this happens”. 

The spokesperson did not confirm whether the government had knowingly provided training to Sars officers and whether assistance or funding to the army or police had ever been reviewed on account of human rights abuses.

A judicial panel has been set up to in Lagos to investigate action by security forces during the October protests, but it has been met with cynicism in Nigeria, where there is a history of government inquiries leading to no prosecutions. Statements by Nigerian ministers defending security personnel accused of abuses and discrediting media reports of recent killings have appeared to undermine ongoing inquiries.

Chi Onwurah, who heads the APPG for Africa, said the UK should press authorities to fully investigate recent abuses. “We need clear, honest, verifiable messages from the Nigerian authorities and a credible investigation to build public trust.

“The enduring influence and consequences of the colonial period on Nigerian institutions, including the police, does give the UK a responsibility to do all we can to support the Nigerian people in reforming those institutions,” she said.

A freedom of information request by the Campaign Against Arms Trade has revealed that the College of Policing, a professional body for police in England and Wales, trained Nigerian security forces last year.

Since 2015, £43m of weapons have been licensed to Nigeria. UK arms export licensing criteria requires the government to review a licence “if there is a clear risk that the items might be used for internal repression”.

“The government claims that it has a rigorous and robust arms export policy, but, in reality, it routinely arms human rights abusing regimes and police forces across the world,” Andrew Smith from CAAT said. “The UK has a long history of looking the other way whole abuses are being inflicted.”

Thousands of mostly young people took the streets of Nigeria last month in the largest protest movement in years, sparked by footage of killings by Sars officers. The government dissolved the unit on 11 October but the protests continued.

Efforts had been made to reform the Nigerian police force, which was founded by UK governing authorities during colonial rule. Yet according to Isa Sanusi, a spokesperson for Amnesty International Nigeria, its violent origins are still evident in its “emphasis on protecting those in authority and use of force in all aspects of law enforcement”.





No.25 article:
Pope says for first time that China&#x27;s Uighurs are &#x27;persecuted&#x27;

Francis mentions plight of Muslim minority in China, alongside Rohingya and Yazidi, in new book

Pope Francis has for the first time called China’s Muslim Uighurs a “persecuted” people, something human rights activists have been urging him to do for years.

In the wide-ranging book Let Us Dream: the Path to a Better Future, he said: “I think often of persecuted peoples: the Rohingya, the poor Uighurs, the Yazidi” in a section where he also talks about persecuted Christians in Islamic countries.

The pope has spoken out before about the Rohingya who have fled Myanmar, and the killing of Yazidi by Islamic State in Iraq, but it is the first time he has mentioned Uighurs.

Faith leaders, activist groups and governments have said crimes against humanity and genocide are taking place against the Uighur Muslim minority in China’s remote Xinjiang region, where more than 1 million people are held in camps.

Beijing has rejected the allegations as an attempt to discredit China, saying the camps are vocational education and training centres as part of counter-terrorism and deradicalisation measures.

Zhao Lijian, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, said on Tuesday that Francis’ remarks had “no factual basis at all”.

“People of all ethnic groups enjoy the full rights of survival, development, and freedom of religious belief,” Zhao said at a daily briefing. He made no mention of the camps.

Many commentators have said the Vatican was reluctant to speak out on the Uighurs earlier because it was in the process of renewing a controversial accord with Beijing on the appointment of bishops. The accord, which Pompeo urged the Vatican to abandon, was renewed in September.

In the book – a 150-page collaboration with his English-language biographer Austen Ivereigh, due out in December – Francis also said the Covid-19 pandemic should spur governments to consider permanently establishing a universal basic income. He speaks of economic, social and political changes he says are needed to address inequalities after the pandemic ends. 

He also said people who see wearing masks as an imposition by the state were “victims only in their imagination” and praised those who protested against the death of George Floyd in police custody for rallying around the “healthy indignation” that united them.

Francis’s support for universal basic income (UBI) – a controversial policy espoused by some economists and sociologists in which governments give a fixed amount of money to each citizen with no conditions attached – was his clearest yet.

UBI was a cornerstone of the campaign of Andrew Yang last year during the Democratic presidential primaries in the United States.

“Recognising the value to society of the work of non-earners is a vital part of our rethinking in the post-Covid world. That’s why I believe it is time to explore concepts like the universal basic income (UBI) ...” he said.

“By providing a universal basic income, we can free and enable people to work for the community in a dignified way.”

Francis again criticised trickle-down economics, the theory favoured by conservatives that tax breaks and other incentives for big business and the wealthy eventually will benefit the rest of society through investment and job creation.

He called it “the false assumption of the infamous trickle-down theory that a growing economy will make us all richer”.





No.26 article:
Students going home for Thanksgiving could bring Covid with them

The holiday student migration could be a major inflection point in the spread of coronavirus

Thanksgiving is always the fourth Thursday in November, but this year the timing could not be worse. As the holiday approaches, thousands of college students are going back home for the winter as schools close their campuses, end their semester, or move classes online. What they won’t be ending is the spread of Covid-19.

Cases in the US have risen exponentially over the last few weeks, with daily new cases close to 200,000 and current hospitalizations reaching 80,000. Unlike the previous two waves of cases in the spring and summer, the rise in cases is not concentrated in a single region. Cases are rising in most parts of the country.

Yet many college students are still packing up their suitcases and heading home. Some will be coming from campuses that have lower rates of infection than their home towns. Others will be coming from campuses that are seeing dozens of new cases a day.

“The timing of this holiday, combined with the rates of Covid that are occurring in so many places across the US, combined with the fact that many people haven’t seen their families in a long time … it’s a little bit of an added sting to what we’ve already been enduring,” said Amanda Simanek, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, a state suffering one of the worst surges in cases in the country.

There is no official count of how many positive cases have been reported on college campuses during the fall. The New York Times has counted over 321,000 cases in over 1,700 colleges since the start of the pandemic, including faculty and staff who contracted the virus. Some schools, particularly large public universities, have seen thousands of cases while others have seen a few dozen at most.

If what’s past is prologue, the holiday student migration could be a major inflection point in the spread of coronavirus. Research has shown that students arriving in their college towns at the beginning of the fall led to increased rates of infection in those communities. But because many schools have only been testing students who choose to get tested, it is unclear how many students will be bringing the virus home with them for Thanksgiving break.

Some schools that have made weekly testing mandatory for all or a randomized selection of students believe they may be sending students into communities that have higher rates of infection than on campus.

Daniel Diermeier, chancellor of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, said he believes this will be the case for his students given that the rate of positivity on campus is below 2% while Tennessee’s rate is 14%. The US overall positivity rate is currently around 10%.

“It’s safer on campus than in the communities where they go to,” Diermeier said. “It’s not like we’re releasing students with all these asymptomatic cases. It’s just the opposite – our problem was keeping the virus out.”

Vanderbilt has been testing all students weekly, something Diemeier noted takes a lot of resources for schools. “This is super expensive. The tests are super expensive”.

Even though campuses may have lower infection rates than their surrounding communities, many have started to see an uptick in cases that reflects the general increase rates of infection in the US. A handful of universities, including Saint Mary’s University in Minnesota, Brown University in Rhode Island and Sacred Heart University in Connecticut, have moved classes online in the last few weeks after cases in their local communities surged.

Many schools are turning to increased testing before Thanksgiving, with specifics varying widely from school to school, in an attempt to prevent students from bringing the virus home.

A few institutions have opted to make testing mandatory before leaving campus, including the State University of New York system, University of Notre Dame and Colby College. Notre Dame has gone so far as to warn students that if they do not get tested before leaving campus, the school will hold on to their transcripts and they will be unable to matriculate for the spring semester.

Instead of requiring testing before students’ departure, many schools expanded testing and are encouraging students to get tested before they leave campus. Penn State University is giving students the option of using self-test kits instead of going to one of the campus’s testing sites for testing. The University of Georgia doubled the number of students it tested as part of its surveillance testing program right before sending students home.

But testing alone will not guarantee a healthy homecoming, Simanek notes, as a person could have a false negative if they test too early, before they start showing symptoms. Quarantining after traveling – which can be cut short with a negative test a few days after possible exposure – is the best way to ensure the virus will not spread.

“The safest thing would be to assume you’ve been exposed on the way,” Simanek said.

Once home, most students will not return to campus until late January or February, when most colleges plan to start their spring semesters.

With the virus still spreading fast, what the spring semester will look like for schools is clouded in the uncertainty. Most schools have said they will cautiously invite students back to campus, including schools that had moved all classes online after outbreaks on campus during their fall semester, such as Temple University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

UNC-Chapel Hill said it will require students to be tested before they return to campus in the spring, something the school did not do in the fall. It has also opted for a later start to the spring semester, and students will not have a spring break – two strategies many colleges are taking in the spring.

But for now it’s the holiday exodus that students, their families, universities and the country have to worry about.

Lindsay Nissenbaum, a senior at Tulane University in New Orleans, said she will be quarantining at her family’s home in New York City as she awaits the results of a Covid-19 test once she arrives in the city. While Nissenbaum would typically fly back to New York, she is opting to drive nearly 1,300 miles instead. If she tests negative, she will join her family in their second home in upstate New York where they will celebrate the holiday.

“I don’t want to bring it home. Nobody in my family is immunocompromised or anything, but I don’t want to be the person who brings it home to my family. It’s kind of scary,” Nissenbaum said. “Luckily, we have two houses so I can stay in the city and then drive up, but not everyone can do that.”

Other students are less worried about their travels home.

Luke Carmosino, a junior at University of Wisconsin–Madison, is flying home to Irvington, New York, for Thanksgiving. Carmosino tested positive for the virus in September and said he has little concerns about re-contracting the virus. He plans to follow the protocols New York state has set up for incoming travelers, which entails two tests – one before arrival and one four days after – along with a mandatory quarantine period. If a person has a negative test taken after their fourth day of quarantine, they can exit quarantine.

“If I follow all the precautions that we know of, trying to prevent myself from carrying [Covid] at least, then we’re not too worried about it,” Carmosino said. “I’m super aware, I’ve had it, I’ve seen it go through a college population, but what are we going to do? There’s no use in freaking out about it if you just do what you can.”

This article was amended on 24 November 2020 to correct when Thanksgiving typically occurs. 





No.27 article:
Victoria to ban &#x27;abhorrent&#x27; practice of gay or gender conversion &#x27;therapy&#x27;

Government says legislation being introduced on Wednesday sends clear message that no one is ‘broken’ because of their sexuality or gender identity

The Victorian government will introduce legislation to outlaw conversion “therapy” seeking to change someone’s sexuality or gender identity, with fines of close to $10,000 or up to 10 years in jail.

The Change or Suppression (Conversion) Practices Prohibition Bill 2020, to be introduced on Wednesday, will empower the Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission to investigate reports of conversion practices.

“We’re sending a clear message: no one is ‘broken’ because of their sexuality or gender identity,” Victoria’s attorney general, Jill Hennessy, said. “These views won’t be tolerated in Victoria and neither will these abhorrent practices.”Practitioners of conversion practices seeking to change someone’s sexuality or gender identity and found to have caused serious injury could face up to 10 years’ jail under the criminal sanctions proposed in the legislation. Those who try to avoid the law in Victoria by sending people to conversion practices out of the state would also face criminal sanctions and fines to a maximum of close to $10,000.

The Victorian government went to consultation on a proposed ban in October last year. In its report released with the legislation, the government said survivors of conversion practices and the LGBT community supported outright bans. Religious groups preferred bans to focus on conversion practices without consent and regulation to focus on medical and health practitioners, with religious organisations seeking to have church doctrine and teachings exempted from the definition of conversion practices.

The report quotes survivors of conversion practices who spoke about the lasting impact it had on their lives and mental health.

“I went to prayer therapy with a small group associated with a breakaway Uniting church in New South Wales who thought I needed to fix my ‘sexual deviance’ by casting off demons that had been passed down family lines,” one anonymous submission stated.

“I internalised my feelings of shame to such a degree that my mental, physical and spiritual health all suffered. Suicidal ideation was an ongoing lived reality in my life alongside two failed suicide attempts and a complete breakdown which required hospitalisation.

“I cannot express strongly enough how important it is to see these messages of brokenness stopped. It is a matter of life and death.”

Religious groups have sought to distance themselves from the older practices of electro-shock treatment, aversion therapy or other extreme methods, while arguing that religious counselling encouraging people to change their sexuality or gender identity should not be banned if a person consented to the treatment.

Much of the public religious conversion practice does not now claim to be able to change a person’s sexuality, but instead encourages people not to act on their desires and to live a celibate life.

The campaign against similar legislation before it passed into law in Queensland was largely focused around transgender rights, with religious and anti-trans feminist groups opposing the inclusion of gender identity “therapy” in the ban.

The Victorian legislation goes further than the Queensland bill – which passed in August – and covers anyone who attempts to convert someone else. The Queensland legislation was criticised by survivors for being limited to health providers and not capturing informal conversion practices outside of healthcare settings.

Due to the limited remaining sitting weeks in 2020, the legislation in Victoria will not pass until next year at the earliest.

 • Crisis support services can be reached 24 hours a day: Lifeline 13 11 14; Suicide Call Back Service 1300 659 467; Kids Helpline 1800 55 1800

On 25 November 2020 this article was amended to make clear that conversion practices are not therapy.





No.28 article:
Shapps says case numbers, including in over-60s, will factor in tier placement

Data released in the next few days will determine which areas will enter each of the new tiers being proposed across England, as hopes emerge of the coronavirus reproduction number dropping below dangerous levels.

The UK transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said an area’s placement in a specific tier after the lockdown ends on 2 December will be determined by its number of cases, and factors such as the speed of rising cases and the numbers of people aged over 60 testing positive for the virus.

“New data is coming out in the next day or so, which is why the actual specification of which tier goes into which place will be announced on Thursday, and it will be on the basis of a number of cases,” Shapps said in an interview with Sky News. “For example, the number of cases in the over-60s, where it is much more likely or possible that it could be fatal. And things like the speed at which coronavirus is rising or falling in a particular area and a couple of other measures along those lines.”

He told BBC Breakfast that although half the country might be placed in the strictest tier 3 alert level, this would still allow for more freedoms than the national lockdown currently in place for England.

“I think it is the case that we do need to be a bit tighter on the tiers – tier 3 in more places is a strong possibility – but there’s still a difference between that and what we’re doing now.

“For example, in terms of the number of people that can meet outside in a public place, and a number of other things. We’ve been living through this nightmare for a long time now, we all know the only way to defeat this virus is, I’m afraid, to keep people apart and separate from the most natural thing, which is human contact.

From 2 December, England will be divided into three different tiers of restrictions. They are slightly amended from the previous system.

Across all tiers, shops, personal care, gyms and the wider leisure sector are set to reopen. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume.

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The&nbsp;“rule of six”&nbsp;will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers.

Under the new system, although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve substantial meals can operate. It means pubs and bars that do not will have to close.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport in tier 2, with a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of the capacity of the stadium or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close.

How was it before?

In the “high” alert level tier people were prohibited from mixing socially indoors with anybody outside of their household or support bubble but the rule of six remained in place outdoors. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could open until 10pm but people were only allowed to visit with their household or support bubble.

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Outdoor sports, including golf and tennis, will be allowed to continue in all tiers, as will amateur team sports such as football. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

How was it before?

In the most restrictive tier, known as the “very high” alert level that was endured by vast swathes of the north of England, mixing socially indoors between households – unless a support bubble was in place – was banned. Under baseline measures hospitality venues serving substantial food could remain open until 10pm. Up to six people from different households could socialise outdoors in public spaces, such as parks, beaches or public gardens.

“You can only breach that in a certain number of places and I think we’ve made our decisions as a country that that has to be for things like education and work while we get through this winter.”

He agreed, however, that the country’s test-and-trace system needed to be improved, adding that the government had no choice but to spend a great deal on it during the crisis. “We have to get through this coronavirus and I’m afraid there has been no other option but to spend a lot of money,” Shapps told Sky News. “We’ve said that we want test and trace to be a lot better.”

The system, which has to date cost £22bn, has been heavily criticised after a series of high-profile failures since its launch earlier this year.

The government has also announced that travellers arriving in England from 15 December will be able to end their quarantine period with a negative coronavirus test after five days.

Whitehall has said passengers who arrive from a destination not on the government’s travel corridors list can reduce the 14-day period by paying for a test from a private firm after five days at a cost of £65 to £120.

“We still wanted to make sure we had testing available for doctors, nurses and teachers and any others before turning to travellers, and we’ve done that by turning to the private sector for these tests,” Shapps said.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The transport secretary said the tests to reduce the quarantine period for travellers were not just for business travellers, despite their cost.

He told BBC Breakfast: “I expect what will happen as this market gets going is we’ll see the cost of tests being driven down, particularly as some of these new types of tests have come around. And rather than specifying – people have heard terms like PCR tests and lab tests and lateral flow – rather than specifying a type of test, we’ve specified a specification standard for these tests – medical experts have.

“It’s up to companies to innovate. If they can produce a test for much less money, or indeed much faster turnaround, then they’re welcome to do that as long as it meets the very exacting standards.”





No.29 article:
How can you be LGBTQ+ at an evangelical university? In secret

Students at Liberty University have to sign an honor code, which describes accepted and forbidden behavior – and LGBTQ students fear they have to remain in the shadows to graduate

It took one weekend to leave Tessa Russell truly exposed.

On 6 April 2019, her girlfriend Ash Ables traveled to Liberty University in central Virginia to surprise her. They had been dating for four months, but it was her first time visiting Russell on campus.

The two were eating pizza in front of the TV when Russell’s resident adviser (RA) swiped into the room, catching the couple off guard. Because same-sex relationships are effectively verboten at the evangelical Christian school, Russell immediately tried to pass the relationship off as platonic.

Her resident adviser wasn’t buying it, and ordered Ables to leave campus. Russell frantically reached out to her Liberty LGBTQ network, and the couple crashed at a friend’s apartment.

Then Russell’s cellphone rang. Her RA demanded that she return, saying the two “could not be together”. Feeling that she didn’t have a choice, she left Ables and went back to her dorm at 3am, where her adviser was waiting.

“You know, you can get counseling for this kind of thing. These relationships are sinful. I recommend you go to therapy for this,” Russell was told.

“It was just painful because it was so shameful – even though it’s something that should not be – I have a girlfriend who I love. There was nothing wrong with that, but it was just so looked down upon by my peers,” Russell, who graduated in the spring, told the Guardian.

Later, she found out one of her two roommates had reported her.

“I was so livid for the first couple days, I tried to stay out of my dorm as much as possible. I felt unsafe, betrayed and hurt. I wasn’t really ready to be out out,” she recalled. When Russell later told her roommate she would rather have been confronted privately, she was told her relationship “wasn’t right”.

The Liberty junior had been slowly revealing she was gay – confiding in one person, who led her to another gay student and then another. Eventually, she found an underground group of queer students. When she first joined two years ago, there were about 30 members in an online group. Now there are 133.

They fear they have to remain in the shadows to graduate.

•••

Upon matriculating at Liberty University, students have to sign an honor code called The Liberty Way, which describes accepted and forbidden behaviors (the latter includes drinking alcohol and having premarital sex).

The 22-page document also states that “sexual relations outside of a biblically-ordained marriage between a natural-born man and a natural-born woman are not permissible at Liberty University”.

That there is any LGBTQ community at Liberty University may be surprising. The school was founded in 1971 by Southern Baptist televangelist Jerry Falwell, a man renowned for his attacks on the gay community. In the 1980s, he notoriously claimed that “Aids is not just God’s punishment for homosexuals. It is God’s punishment for the society that tolerates homosexuals.” He continued to make inflammatory statements about gay people throughout his life, but he also made overtures to the community in later years.

Falwell’s longtime ghostwriter, the Rev Mel White, was gay. After coming out in 1994, he stopped working for Falwell, but the two hosted a meeting addressing LGBTQ civil rights in 1999. Falwell maintained that the “gay lifestyle” was a sin, but agreed to tone down anti-LGBTQ language, only to later blame the 9/11 terrorist attacks on gay people, feminists and “abortionists”.

After Falwell’s death in 2007, his son Jerry Falwell Jr took over and transformed Liberty into a $1bn empire. By 2015, it was the second-largest provider of online education in the US. The undergraduate population on the central Virginia campus is 15,000, but the majority of its 100,000 students are enrolled online.

In August 2020, Falwell Jr resigned amid a sexual scandal involving his wife and a business associate. His fall from grace did not sit well with LGBTQ students who battled internally for years to hide or change who they were, or suffered mistreatment for living outside of Liberty’s sanctioned behavior.

In March, a month before the incident with her adviser, Russell participated in a demonstration supporting LGBTQ+ rights and #MeToo survivors. A friend draped a rainbow Pride flag over Russell’s shoulders – a coming out of sorts. She was “terrified”. For weeks afterward, classmates sent her messages with “out of context Bible verses that I was going to hell and that I must not really be a Christian”.

Two years earlier, as a freshman, Russell’s health had taken a severe turn. She tried dating a guy. She slid into depression and attempted suicide. She relapsed into anorexia. In retrospect, she said she depleted herself of calories to shut down her libido and her attraction to women. After a stay at a psychiatric hospital specializing in eating disorders and months of secular therapy, she returned to campus recognizing she was a lesbian, albeit closeted. Her story is one of many: several students interviewed by the Guardian said they struggled with internalized homophobia, mental health problems and suicide attempts.

At least she was able to avoid “pastoral counseling”, offered by the school, but which students assume is, in effect, conversion therapy. Because Liberty only sanctions sexuality within a heterosexual marriage, Russell assumed she would be guided into suppressing her attractions. During her decline in her freshman year, she went to one Liberty counseling session and did not mention she was gay out of that fear, she said.

Repeated attempts to contact Liberty for comment have not been returned.

After the confrontation in her dorm, Russell contacted Liberty’s Office of Equity and Inclusion. “I worked things out so that I did not have to go to conversion therapy, which Liberty does still do even though they might not call it that. Regardless, I was able to get out of doing therapy and paying fines,” she said. (Violations of the Liberty Way can be fined monetarily or with discipline.)

But other LGBTQ students and alumni did speak about what they call conversion therapy, which Liberty considers pastoral counseling.

•••

Men “who struggle with same sex attraction” have access to a weekly group therapy session where they discuss these feelings, with the aim of not acting on them. Historically, it’s been called Masquerade, then Band of Brothers. It’s currently called Armor Bearers.

Dave, a 24-year old who graduated from Liberty in 2018, told his parents he was bisexual before college. Concerned, they enrolled him in Armor Bearers. He spoke without using his full name because he is in the process of coming out.

At the time, he said he leaned more towards liking men. “I was really worried that they were going to try to pray the gay out of me,” he said.

“Armor Bearers is certainly unique in the way they approach things. They try to walk this balance between saying ‘God made you this way and it’s OK’– that it’s this thing that you have no control over, but at the same time, you have to repress,” he said. “They certainly walked the line between telling you that being attracted to somebody of the same sex, romantically or sexually, was not sinful, while making you feel like it was a sin to be confessed every time you had that attraction.”

Every week, Pastor Dane Emerick “would start by trying to guide us into being biblical men, basically using the Bible to redirect the homosexuality into a more platonic form, while also having time where we would confess our urges to one another and how we had ‘struggled’ with same-sex attraction that week and if we’d ‘overcome’ it or not. All the while stating that they weren’t trying to make us straight, but if we did turn out straight that was OK,” Dave said. “They didn’t want to try to make us straight, but they didn’t want us to really express that part of our sexuality because it was still viewed as sinful.”

Many of the men would hook up, he said.

“We’re really trying to avoid our urges, but at the same time, you know that some of these people are basically boyfriends while they’re out of the room.”

After two years, Dave gradually stopped going. Romantically, he vacillated between two students: a man and a woman. Right after graduating, he married the woman, who is also bisexual – they met through Liberty’s queer network.

For Dave, it’s important to communicate that conversion therapy did not work.

“My wife and I still see hot guys passing by and she’ll be like, ‘Dang, you see that guy?’” he said. “It wasn’t that I was miraculously cured. I just happened to fall in love with a girl and get married.”

Despite his heterosexual Christian marriage – the couple even waited to have sex until they were married – the damage from Armor Bearers persists.

“Many years later, it still kind of affects my sexuality because I still worry, sometimes in the back of my brain, is it really bad to be bi? Even though Armor Bearers would say ‘There’s nothing wrong with you, you can find people attractive, you just can’t act on it,’ I still felt that there was something wrong with me. Whether they wanted to say it or not, that’s what their teachings led you to believe,” he said.

“I want to come out as bi because I want to clarify that the Armor Bearers didn’t ‘fix’ me. My queerness is a very important part of me, even after I’m married.”

•••

In many ways, broader US culture has changed dramatically in the last decade. Most notably, in 2015 gay marriage was legalized. As of 1 July, Virginia became the 20th state to ban conversion therapy for anyone younger than 18.

At Liberty, the culture had begun to shift also, students say. For example, in 2016, the dress code relaxed so that women could wear leggings, although the maxim, “modest is hottest” still makes the rounds.

But the same year, with Falwell Jr’s endorsement of Donald Trump, the school became more overtly political. All Liberty students on campus are required to attend a mandatory thrice-weekly chapel service called convocation, or “convo”. Instead of former speakers like Bernie Sanders and the actor Sean Astin, students had to sit through the likes of Candace Owens and Dinesh D’Souza on a continuous shuffle.

“I came to Liberty as a Libertarian Christian, and I left as an atheist Democratic socialist,” a 25-year old who describes himself as a “femme gay”, said. He spoke anonymously because he still has family ties to Liberty and fears that his sexuality could threaten the job of a relative employed by the school.

He fretted that these services increasingly became a megaphone for the far right wing.

“In convo, they’re talking all about how we need to value free speech. OK, I’m a gay liberal. I have no voice at the school,” he said, noting that the College Democrats were defunded for insisting on a pro-choice platform.

As a student who worked for Liberty, he said he experienced homophobia, but also incredible support. Some of his co-workers congratulated him when he moved in with his longtime boyfriend after graduating in August. But he also reported his roommates to the Diversity and Inclusion office because their flagrant homophobia made him feel “unsafe”.

Brooke Smoke, a current senior who is currently coming out as bisexual, was surprised to find any queer community on campus. She’s active in progressive causes including Black Lives Matter, as is her boyfriend of the past eight months.

Having been homeschooled in a conservative Christian home, Smoke said she used to hate herself for being attracted to women – she had found it “disgusting”. Despite being disillusioned by Liberty, she remains strong in her faith.

“I think that it was in God’s plan, for me to be here and to witness Christianity and culture in this way,” she said. “Grappling with some gender-related struggles and sexuality and orientation – just knowing that God has always known those things about me, that’s something I find comfort in.”

But recently Jackie Hill-Perry, a “reformed lesbian”, spoke at convocation, which Smoke found frustrating.

“I’m just annoyed that that is what the LGBT representation at Liberty was. A lesbian who converted and is now married to a man. While I think her journey is totally valid, it was framed as though that was the healthy and correct choice for every Christian. Conversion. When in reality I don’t think the mental health statistics at all line up with that vision,” Smoke, 22, wrote in a text.

She contacted the senior vice-president for spiritual development, David Nasser, to ask him to clearly state what “LGBTQIA+ people’s place on this campus is (if any),” she texted. “And I wanted to know if he endorsed conversion therapy.”

This week, Smoke met with Nasser. He told her that there’s no required conversion therapy on campus at present, but the option was there for students who wanted it.

•••

For Russell, life after Liberty has gone well.

She and Ables got engaged in July. They plan to raise their children in the Christian faith, albeit a more progressive one. Russell is currently “healing her relationship with God”, she said. She doesn’t really keep in touch with anyone from Liberty who wasn’t in her LGBTQ circles.

When she and Ables get married next year, she hopes, but doesn’t expect, her family to come to the wedding.





No.30 article:
Top public health officials are taking their own advice about scaling down the holiday amid the Covid-19 pandemic to heart

In October, Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s foremost infectious disease expert, said in an interview that his children would not be coming home for Thanksgiving this year and encouraged other Americans to avoid large celebrations in order to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

Public health officials have often warned that the holiday, one of the biggest travel occasions of the year, could act as a huge super-spreader event.

On Thursday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated its guidelines to recommend Americans avoid Thanksgiving travel. But there are signs that many will be ignoring that advice and traveling and gathering with their families.

The Guardian spoke with five public health experts on how they plan on spending the holiday this year.

Michael Osterholm, epidemiologist and director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota; member of President-elect Joe Biden’s coronavirus taskforce

“My partner and I are going to celebrate it together, alone. We will do some virtual Thanksgiving Day exchanges with my two children, their spouses and my five grandchildren.

I’m going to be spending the day doing something I’ve never done before, [and that is] calling a long list of people who I have been so fortunate to have had in my life, and telling each one that I’m so very glad they were born.

Sometimes it’s not until you lose something that you realize how much it means. Many families this Thanksgiving are having that exact feeling because they’ve lost loved ones to Covid. [The rest of us] are also losing the wonderful experience of being close to people.

This is hard, but I look forward to next year and [take comfort] knowing that by doing what we’re doing, we will all hopefully be here next year.”

Saskia Popescu, epidemiologist with George Mason University and the University of Arizona

“My husband and I are bubbling with my parents, who live 90 miles away. We’re being vigilant about quarantining for 14 days and then we’re all going to get tested in advance. We had to decide to [celebrate] with one set of in-laws, instead of both, so that was an awkward conversation. But we’ll probably celebrate Christmas with my husband’s family.

This is a time of year where a lot of us would normally get together with friends. My sister-in-law and I have a tradition of getting pedicures and dinner together around the holidays. I’ll miss that this year.

I have a virtual happy hour every Friday with a bunch of my friends from my Johns Hopkins fellowship, and we’re planning on having a pre-holiday one, where everybody wears an ugly sweater. I’ve been trying to send friends gifts because there’s been so much video chatting, which is wonderful, but there’s also something nice about being able to open a piece of mail or a little gift.”

Dr Gregory Poland, vaccine expert and internal medicine physician at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota

“I have two sons and a daughter, and [the older two] will not be coming home for Thanksgiving as they normally would. My youngest son and his wife live near us and will be coming over for Thanksgiving dinner, but we’ll do it in the garage separated by about 10 or 12 feet. When we’re not eating, we’ll all have masks on. When we do eat, we’ll turn on a fan and leave the garage door open. It can get chilly, but we’ll put a heater on.

We’ll have a brief get-together and then see our other kids on Zoom. We’re setting up a table for those in our family who are not here, just to remember that we are a family, even if we’re separated by space.

Thanksgiving is probably my favorite holiday and it was a difficult decision not to spend it [together]. I was trying to think of all kinds of ways to make it work – testing, distancing, they drive home – and we just realized, as we talked through, that it wouldn’t be safe. It’s not the right thing to do.

Instead, we will rejoice in the Thanksgivings that we have had and look forward to Thanksgiving 2021.”

Dr Thomas Chin-Chia Tsai, surgeon and health policy researcher at Brigham and Women’s hospital and the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health in Boston, Massachusetts

“With the high risk of Covid transmission and large degree of asymptomatic spread, we feel that it’s safest to keep it to our immediate family – my wife, my two-year-old and me – and we’ll Zoom with our family members. Fortunately, our friends and families felt the same way.

We do a fairly traditional Thanksgiving, watching football and cooking, and we’ll try to maintain the social and family connection, but it is going to be more abbreviated. We’re all on Zoom all the time for meetings and work, and it’s not the same as being together.

Since it’s just the three of us and we have a young toddler, we’re not going to cook. We’re going to get a lot of takeout from local restaurants. It’s less work for us, and we’re also helping support some of the smaller businesses that have been suffering.”

Deborah Burger, registered nurse and co-president of National Nurses United, based in Oakland, California

“I’ve got my smoked turkey, mashed potatoes, gravy, all that kind of stuff. But it’ll just be me and my husband. We’re not doing any outside visitors; I think most nurses have limited their interactions with extended family because they don’t want to put them at risk.

I’m really fortunate that, at least in my family, everybody’s on board [for spending the holiday apart]. But I have co-workers whose family members wanted to go ahead with Thanksgiving dinners with 30 or 40 people. As it gets closer to Thanksgiving and the number of cases reported has risen, some people have started to cancel those plans, but I’m really concerned that not enough people are re-evaluating their plans based on current information.

You have to reset your expectations of what the holidays mean right now. It would be extremely selfish to try and go about having ‘normal’ Thanksgiving when these aren’t normal times. It’s better to have a few empty seats at the table this year, rather than empty seats for ever.”





No.31 article:
PM Abiy Ahmed had set 72-hour deadline for Tigrayan forces to surrender or face offensive on Mekelle

Diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis in Ethiopia appeared in disarray on Tuesday, less than two days before a deadline for the surrender of the leadership of the restive northern region of Tigray expires, after which federal troops have been ordered to attack its capital.

The leader of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the ruling party in the region, has said his people are “ready to die” defending their homeland, rejecting the prime minister’s Sunday night demand that they lay down their arms within 72 hours.

Abiy Ahmed launched a military campaign against the TPLF on 4 November, accusing it of attacking two federal military camps in the northern region, and of defying and seeking to destabilise his government.

The federal army says its forces are within 37 miles (60km) of Mekelle, Tigray’s capital and the seat of the TPLF, ahead of a threatened bombardment of the city of half a million people.

Abiy – last year’s Nobel peace prize winner – on Sunday called on the TPLF to surrender peacefully within three days, saying they were “at a point of no return”.

“The highly aggressive rhetoric on both sides regarding the fight for Mekele is dangerously provocative and risks placing already vulnerable and frightened civilians in grave danger,” Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said. The allegation that Tigray leaders were hiding among civilians “does not then give the Ethiopian state carte blanche to respond with the use of artillery in densely populated areas”, she added.

The UN security council scheduled, then cancelled, then rescheduled its first meeting to discuss the situation on Tuesday.

The current African Union chair, South Africa’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa, has backed sending three high-level envoys for Ethiopia, an initiative the UN praised for “efforts to peacefully resolve the conflict”, but Ethiopian officials have said any envoys would not be allowed to meet with the TPLF leadership.

“All possible scenarios will be on the table to talk, except bringing the gang to the table as a legitimate entity,” a senior Ethiopian spokesman, Redwan Hussein, said. 

Ethiopian officials describe the offensive in Tigray as a “law enforcement operation” aiming to remove rebel leaders and restore central authority in the region. The TPLF says it is defending its legitimate rights under Ethiopia’s devolved constitutional system.

Ethiopia has long been a linchpin of US policy in the fragile east-African region and so far Washington has supported Abiy.

Tibor Nagy, the US assistant secretary for African affairs, told reporters last week: “This is not two sovereign states fighting. This is a faction of the government running a region that has decided to undertake hostilities against the central government, and it has not … had the effect they thought they were going to get.”

The TPLF’s leader, Debretsion Gebremichael, claimed Abiy’s ultimatum was an effort to cover for setbacks his army had suffered against Tigrayan forces. “He doesn’t understand who we are. We are people of principle and ready to die in defence of our right to administer our region,” Debretsion told Agence France-Presse via WhatsApp on Monday.

A spokesman for the Tigray forces said they had “completely destroyed” the army’s 21st mechanised division while statements published online by Tigrayan authorities described federal forces suffering “thousands” of casualties. There is no confirmation of the claims and government officials did not return calls seeking comment.

The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said on Tuesday its investigations had found that a Tigrayan youth group had stabbed, strangled, and bludgeoned to death at least 600 civilians with the collusion of local security forces during a massacre in the town of Mai Kadra two weeks ago.

The attack was aimed primarily at labourers of non-Tigrayan origins, from the Amhara and Wolkait ethnic groups, said the state-appointed commission. The Tigrayan forces’ leaders could not immediately be reached for comment but have previously denied any responsibility for the massacre.

A communications blackout in the region has made claims from both sides difficult to verify.

The conflict has killed hundreds so far and displaced many more. More than 40,000 refugees have crossed into neighbouring Sudan and roads in Tigray are crowded with people escaping from the fighting.

The army has threatened a “no mercy” tank assault on the TPLF leadership in Mekelle, warning civilians to leave while they can. The threat has prompted widespread concern, with human rights campaigners saying it could breach international legal codes.

“Treating a whole city as a military target would not only [be] unlawful, it could also be considered a form of collective punishment,” the Human Rights Watch researcher Laetitia Bader said.

Abiy has urged the people of Mekelle to side with the national army against the TPLF “in bringing this treasonous group to justice”.

Observers point to growing evidence of an ethnic dimension to the conflict, pitting the Amhara people from the neighbouring province against Tigrayans.

With fighting having subsided in the west of Tigray, government officials are seeking to reimpose order in the strategically important town of Humera after ousting TPLF forces early in the war. The strategy appears to be to erase TPLF control partly by bringing administrators in from the Amhara region, a move that risks inflaming ethnic tensions.

Throughout much of the west, federal soldiers are scarcely seen, with security being maintained by Amhara’s uniformed “special forces”. Civil servants have also arrived from Amhara to take over the administration of some Tigrayan towns and cities.

TPLF banners at checkpoints and in town squares in Humera have been replaced by the green, yellow and red imperial-era flag of Amhara nationalism.

The presence of Amhara flags, officials and soldiers will fuel fears of an occupation among Tigrayans, who are mired in a decades-old dispute over land that has, in the past, sparked violent clashes and continues to be a dangerous flashpoint.





No.32 article:
Chongqing consul-general Stephen Ellison jumped into river to save university student

A British diplomat who rescued a Chinese woman from a river earlier this month has been presented with a red velvet banner as a way of thanks.

Stephen Ellison, the consul-general in Chongqing, was hailed as a hero after footage went viral of him jumping into a river to save a 24-year-old university student. The woman had slipped on rocks and fallen in, and video shot by bystanders showed her struggling in the water before passing under a bridge and emerging facedown. 

Ellison removed his shoes and jumped in to retrieve her. He was thrown a lifering, which he used to drag him and the student to the river’s edge.

Ellison was presented with a jinqi, a crimson velvet banner with gold tassles traditionally given in gratitude. It bore the words “jumping into the water to save people, righteous and courageous”.

“This is the first banner I have ever received in my life, it is of great significance to me,” Ellison said in a post on the consulate’s social media account on Friday.

He later said the Chongqing University student, who is from Wuhan, was shaken by the experience and recovered slowly, but was extremely grateful and had invited him to dinner with her family.





No.33 article:
Most people in China believe corruption falling, says Transparency International

China remains 80th in global index, but survey suggests Xi Jinping’s eight-year drive to root out corruption is having an effect on perceptions

Almost two thirds of people in China believe corruption has decreased in their country in the past year, with more than 80% saying the government has done a good job in combatting it, a new report has said.

The report from Transparency International was based on surveys of almost 20,000 people across 17 Asian countries, asking about their perceptions of, and experiences with, corruption in the past 12 months.

It found almost one in five respondents across Asia – or about 886 million people – reported paying a bribe or using personal connections to access services. The most likely service to involve bribery was the police, followed by the courts.

“Surprisingly, while most citizens consider corruption a big problem in their countries, they still voice positive support for the actions taken,” the report said.

China’s president, Xi Jinping, took office in 2012 pledging to drive out corruption and subsequently launched an unprecedented campaign to weed out “tigers and flies”.

Xi’s anti-corruption campaign has seen the investigation and punishment of millions of officials, as well as accusations that it has been used to get rid of political opponents.

It has had little effect on China’s place in Transparency International’s global corruption index – the country ranked 80th in 2020, and consistently scores around 40/100. However, it appears to have encouraged the general population, 84% of whom told Transparency International the government was doing well in tackling corruption.

In Beijing, an IT business owner named Chen told the Guardian he felt government officials were “much more well behaved than before”, and believed the improvements were due to internal government reporting systems.

The positive findings from China, as well as similar reports from Cambodia and the Philippines, went against a general trend across Asia, where 66% of people thought corruption had worsened or stayed the same .

Almost three in four respondents believed corruption remained a major problem, and only in Myanmar (50%) and Cambodia (30%) did half of respondents or less think that wasn’t the case. Respondents from Cambodia also believed corruption had decreased, but also reported one of the highest rates of bribery.

Nepal and Thailand had the highest rate of people who believed corruption was on the rise – 58% and 55% respectively. In Thailand, the vast majority of respondents – seven in 10 – said they had little or no trust in the government of Prayuth Chan-ocha.

Prayuth, a former army general, first took power in a 2014 coup, stating such action was needed to stamp out corruption and restore order. Yet his government has been dogged by allegations of abuse of power.

Anger over corruption is one of the drivers behind the escalating pro-democracy protests that have shaken Thailand for more than four months. High-profile scandals – such as the mishandling of a hit-and-run case involving the heir to the Red Bull fortune – have reinforced a perception that members of the country’s powerful establishment are free to act with impunity. Protesters argue that no one should be above the law – not even King Maha Vajiralongkorn, who is protected by harsh defamation laws.

Among members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), Thailand fared worst for citizens’ trust in institutions such as the government, the courts and the police.

Transparency Internationals’s report also found 24% of people across the 17 Asian nations who had paid bribes said they did so because they were asked, while another 30% believed they wouldn’t have received service without using personal connections.

“This suggests that people are paying bribes to speed up essential services, highlighting red tape and inefficient bureaucracy, while pushing those without the means at their disposal to the back of the queue,” the report said.

Kevin, an IT worker in Hangzhou, China, told the Guardian there were fewer opportunities for graft now, but “in the past, regular people complained that it took money to deal with their citizen affairs”.

Thai respondents – as well as Malaysian and Indonesian – were among the most likely to report that they, or someone they knew, had experienced extortion when accessing a government service.

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.34 article:
Tuesday briefing: Joe Biden transition officially begins

Government departments told to open door for next presidency … half-dose may be the charm for Oxford vaccine … should we welcome back the wolves?

by  Warren Murray

Hello, Warren Murray here, and thanks for joining me again this Tuesday.

Overnight, Donald Trump has stopped short of conceding the election as he begrudgingly endorsed the release of government resources for the Biden administration’s transition to power. Emily Murphy, who heads the General Services Administration (GSA), said she made the determination independently based on “the law” and “facts”. The move allows Joe Biden and his team to access classified briefings and meet with government officials. It also gives Biden officials access to office space and funds to pay the transition team. Swiftly after the announcement came a Trump tweet saying “our case STRONGLY continues” but “I am recommending that Emily and her team do what needs to be done with regard to initial protocols, and have told my team to do the same”. Again, though – Murphy said she made that decision herself.

Biden has started naming his cabinet, which includes Janet Yellen – the first woman to chair the US Federal Reserve – as the first female treasury secretary in US history. John Kerry, Obama-era secretary of state and onetime presidential hopeful, returns as as “climate tsar” while Jake Sullivan becomes national security adviser; Alejandro Mayorkas, who, if confirmed, would become the first Latino and migrant to be homeland security secretary; Avril Haines for director of national intelligence, who would be the first woman in that role; and Linda Thomas-Greenfield for ambassador to the United Nations.

But wait, you say – what about the blinkin’ secretary of state? As widely foreshadowed his name is Antony Blinken, a Paris-schooled internationalist and foreign policy expert who has been at Joe Biden’s side for more than two decades. He served under Barack Obama as a deputy secretary of state, and on Bill Clinton’s national security council. As the administration takes shape, and much of the world indulges in the audacity of hope, Barack Obama has set out the challenges facing Biden in restoring global faith in American leadership.

Coronavirus latest – Oxford vaccine researchers have told how subjects who received a half-strength first dose, then a full second dose, developed immunity in 90% of cases, compared with 70% in subjects who received two full doses. The vaccine could be made available in the coming weeks in the UK if approved by regulators. Boris Johnson has set out a revised three-tier system of Covid restrictions for England to run until spring as he implored the public to make “one final push” before the expected arrival of vaccines and mass testing. It puts areas in England into one of three tiers once the four-week national lockdown across England ends on 2 December. With Johnson expected to detail plans to let households gather for Christmas, Labour is among those asking how the government will avert gridlocked roads and packed trains that risk further spreading of the virus. You can find more coronavirus developments at our global live blog.

Tory MPs meddling in justice, says top judge – The lord chief justice for England and Wales has admonished six Tory parliamentarians for seeking to influence a judge who is overseeing a hearing related to Charlie Elphicke, the MP jailed for sexual assault. The Tory MPs wrote to senior judges, copying in the judge who will oversee the hearing, which is about whether character witnesses written by some of them in support for Elphicke can be made public. Ben Yallop, private secretary to the lord chief justice, wrote that the MPs had sought to influence a judge “without regard for the separation of powers or the independence of the judiciary”. The Guardian, Times and Associated Newspapers are seeking release of the letters where the author is a public figure, in public office or holds or has held a position of public responsibility.

Opaque role of ‘clearing house’ – The government has been accused of operating an “Orwellian” unit known as the “clearing house” to obstruct the release of sensitive information under freedom of information (FOI). The little-known unit seeks to control the release of potentially embarrassing information, according to the openDemocracy group. The unit requires Whitehall departments to send it requests that are deemed to be potentially sensitive or too expensive to answer, and vets proposed responses. David Davis, the former Tory minister, said the clearing house goes against the spirit of the Freedom of Information Act “and probably the letter, too”. The government says the clearing house exists to ensure a standard approach to FOI requests, adding: “We must balance the public need to make information available with our duty to protect sensitive information and ensure national security.”

Volcano power – Geologists in New Zealand are hoping to reduce climate-damaging emissions by drilling deep into an extinct 11-million-year-old volcano below the city of Dunedin to harness its heat. They hope that heat from 500 metres down can be tapped to warm homes. In Britain the government plans to double the amount of renewable energy it will subsidise in 2021 after agreeing to include onshore wind and solar power projects for the first time since 2015. Energy companies will bid for subsidy contracts in an auction that could support up to 12GW of renewable energy – enough for up to 20m electric vehicles a year.

The Guardian’s Amelia Gentleman wrote her first story on the Windrush scandal almost three years ago – yet she is still hearing from people facing injustice. Alexandra Ankrah, the most senior black Home Office employee in the team responsible for the Windrush compensation scheme, discusses why she resigned this year, describing the scheme as systemically racist and unfit for purpose, while Samantha Cooper describes her frustrations with trying to access financial help.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/23-72341-20201123_TIF_Windrush.mp3 

“There’s a monument near Brora, 60 miles short of John o’Groats, that claims to mark the spot where the last wolf in Sutherland was killed. I pass it often in the car. The wolf, it says, was killed by the hunter Polson in or about the year 1700 … Did it really happen? Probably not,” writes Cal Flyn. “Still, whether Polson is to blame or not, there are no wild wolves left in Scotland. By 1700, they had also long been extirpated from England and from Wales.”

In Europe, those that survived retreated to rare enclaves. On the continent today, patterns of farming and land use have been changing on a grand scale, as marginal land – too steep or too depleted – falls into disuse. Some estimate that in the three decades leading to 2030, an area the size of Italy will have been abandoned within the EU alone. As prey animals have crept back in, so have the carnivores – including the wolves. There are an estimated 12,000 wolves in Europe now, far more than in the contiguous US, and they have ranged back into populous countries like Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands. With centuries-old fears raised once again, can wolf and humankind share the landscape?

Crowds of up to 4,000 people will be allowed to return to sporting events in England from next week, and grassroots sport will also resume as part of an easing of coronavirus restrictions announced by the prime minister. Theo Walcott scored his first goal since returning to Southampton but Pedro Neto grabbed a point for Wolves in a 1-1 draw at Molineux while Chris Wood’s early goal was enough for Burnley to beat Crystal Palace 1-0 at Turf Moor and move out of the bottom three. The England prop Kyle Sinckler has admitted that a mid-lockdown move to Bristol left him performing at just 20% of his ability but credited Eddie Jones’s faith in him for helping getting back to his best.

The father of the 2008 Olympic road race champion, Nicole Cooke, raised concerns about alleged drug use in cycling with UK Anti-Doping and British Cycling that he felt were not acted on, a medical tribunal has been told. Joe Burrow, the No 1 overall pick in this year’s NFL draft, is set for a lengthy spell on the sidelines, according to reports. Pope Francis lauded a delegation of NBA players who met him at the Vatican on Monday as “champions” and said he supported their work on addressing social injustice. And the world’s best batsman, Steve Smith, has revealed a training breakthrough has him feeling like his old self at the crease on the eve of Australia’s ODI, T20 and Test series with India.

The Nikkei index rose to its highest since May 1991 with most other Asia-Pacific markets also higher, though the Hang Seng and Shanghai have been flat or dipped slightly. Qantas has caused a stir with its CEO, Alan Joyce, foreshadowing that international travellers won’t be allowed on its planes without a coronavirus vaccine once it is widely available. The pound is worth $1.333 and €1.125 while the FTSE is headed for a rise of 0.37% at the open.

A quick flick through the print editions then. The Guardian leads with “UK vaccine ‘brings world step closer to ending Covid’”. The Telegraph picks up on the PM’s line that “Tis the season to be jolly careful” and the Metro and Express are more or less word for word in line with that, which will doubtless please the PRs at No 10. The Mail blends two themes with “Vaccine cheers … but first, the tiers”.

The Times has “Covid curbs should be over by Easter, says medical chief”, which is when it is hoped the majority of vulnerable people will have been immunised. The Mirror has “Harsh winter … brighter spring”, highlighting that tiered restrictions are expected to affect more people between now and April.

The FT has “Oxford and AstraZeneca vaccine adds to armoury for Covid battle”. The Sun has a story about I’m a Celebrity.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.35 article:
Singapore &#x27;smiley-face&#x27; activist in one-man protest charged with unlawful assembly

Jolovan Wham faces large fines over incident in which he briefly held a smiley face sign outside a police station

An activist who held a sign bearing a smiley face as part of a one-man protest in Singapore has been charged with unlawful assembly.

Jolovan Wham said he held the cardboard sign near to a police station for just a few seconds in order to take a photo in March. The brief, lonely protest was designed to show support for two climate activists who were apparently questioned by police over a similar protest.

On Monday, he pleaded not guilty to charges of two offences under Singapore’s Public Order Act, and could be fined up to S$5,000 (US$3,700) for each case. He posted bail at S$15,000 on Monday, and will return to court on Friday.

Prior to his court appearance, Wham posted a photo of himself wearing a mask and t-shirt with smiley faces. His supporters have sent him smiley face selfies to show their solidarity.

“People tend to look at Singapore as a progressive, modern, developed country – it is in terms of infrastructure, but it is a country where a lot of people also live in fear,” said Wham. “People are often afraid to speak out and say what they think about the political situation in the country, or even to talk about social issues.”

Wham, who has already served two brief stints in jail this year, said he had lost count of how many charges he faces. In court on Monday, in addition to being charged over his smiley face protest, Wham was also accused of holding an illegal protest in December 2018. He had held a sign calling for the dropping of criminal defamation charges against an editor and a writer at an online news website. The site had published a letter alleging government corruption.

He was previously convicted for organising a public assembly without a permit after he invited Hong Kong democracy activist Joshua Wong to speak over Skype at an indoor meeting. The authorities claimed he did not have a permit for a foreigner to speak at the event.

“I do what I do because I think it’s important to draw attention to the overbearing and draconian ways of the Singapore government,” Wham said.

Singapore maintains strict rules on public assemblies. Speakers’ Corner in Hong Lim park is the only area where no permit is required, but it is currently closed due to the coronavirus.

Phil Robertson from Human Rights Watch said the cases against Wham were absurd.

“You would think that the Singaporean authorities would be smart enough to not take on such a ridiculous case that will make them a laughing stock around the world, but they are blinded by their command-and-control mindset that prefers maximum response to the slightest provocation,” he said..

He added: “Singapore’s government should grow up and recognise it needs to have a national conversation about what it’s people want in the 21st century, and that requires respecting people’s civil and political rights.”





No.36 article:
New Zealand geologists plan to harness volcano heat to reduce climate emissions

Holes drilled into extinct volcano could use magma’s heat to pipe hot water through buildings 

A group of geologists in Dunedin are hoping to reduce climate-damaging emissions by drilling deep into an extinct 11-million-year-old volcano below the South Island city to harness its heat. 

Dr Mike Palin and Otago University colleagues are exploring whether the heat could be a viable energy resource, “thereby reducing carbon-based fuel consumption and consequent greenhouse gas emissions”.

Geologists hope to drill two bores through the veneer of sedimentary rock, 500 metres deep into the volcano, and are seeking backing for the NZ$1m (US$700,000) project from the government’s Smart Ideas programme.

The wells, one in central Dunedin and another by the harbour, would enable the heat flow from the magma to be monitored, providing data on whether there is sufficient heat to be tapped into.

The energy would be captured by pumping water underground in a loop, and then being used to heat buildings.

“We don’t want to oversell this until we know more,” Palin told the Guardian, “[but] even if we find out our extinct volcano isn’t as hot as we think it is, certainly the idea can be utilised elsewhere”.

New Zealand sits in what is called the Ring of Fire, a 40,000 km horseshoe-shaped area in the Pacific Ocean that is home to more than 90% of the world’s volcanoes. 

The country has pledged to reach zero-net carbon emissions by 2050. For the proposed heat extraction plan to work, scientists will need to assess how hot it is under the volcano’s surface but Palin thinks it’s likely to be “pretty hot”. 

“You can burn yourself on something that is 50°C … [and] we would say it’s likely that, at 1km depth, we will encounter rock that is 50-100°C,” said Palin.

Palin described his craft as “geologic detective work”, and pointed out their estimates were drawn from clues in surface lava and findings from two wells previously drilled in the region “that all indicate that there is a hot body of rock beneath our feet”.

While geothermal energy typically calls to mind vigorous surface hot springs, much of that same energy lies not far beneath the surface, said Palin. “There are lots of places where heat is at a relatively shallow depth, within a kilometre of the surface. That can be utilised.”





No.37 article:
New Zealand Human Rights Commission backs overhaul of care for at-risk Māori children

Commissioner Meng Foon calls for end to ‘systemic bias’ against Māori in justice, health and education 

The Human Rights Commission has thrown its support behind calls by the Children’s Commissioner for urgent action to keep at-risk Māori children with their wider whanau or family.

Speaking on behalf of the Human Rights Commission, the race relations commissioner, Meng Foon, said he backed the approach, saying it would uphold indigenous rights of Māori through self-determination. 

“This transformative approach is needed by the government for a host of issues affecting tangata whenua [people of the land] – in justice, health, education and so forth,” said Foon, who is fluent in te reo Māori.

The two-part report found that Māori infants were five times more likely to be taken into state custody than non-Māori, often in traumatic circumstances – including from maternity wards involving the police.

Foon noted that the report highlighted persistent inequities that affect Māori, including intergenerational harm being done to Māori children and whānau (family), and how this collides with entrenched disadvantage, colonisation and systemic bias.

“Such systemic bias needs to go,” Foon said.

Māori children make up about 65% of children in state care – even though Māori comprise just 16.5% of New Zealand’s population.

Oranga Tamariki, the government department charged with investigating claims of child neglect and abuse in New Zealand, has been described as dangerous and racist by Children’s Commissioner, Andrew Becroft, who has urged the government to transfer child welfare powers of its own children to Māori.

“The key recommendation in this report, is for a total transformation of the statutory care and protection system,” said Becroft.

“By that I mean nothing short of a ‘by Māori, for Māori’ approach and a transfer of responsibility, resources and power from the state to appropriate Māori entities, as determined by Māori.”

Both the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, and children’s minister, Kelvin Davis, have responded saying it was important to walk alongside Māori, but stopped short of any discussion of a transfer of power.

The operations of Oranga Tamariki have long drawn the wrath of Māori elders, with large public demonstrations held in 2019 calling for an end to baby uplifts by the state.

“There’s been unprecedented breaches of human rights,” Naida Glavish, the head of a Māori-led inquiry into the practices of Oranga Tamariki, told the Guardian earlier this year.

Glavish said there have been cases of women’s babies being taken into custody over the cleanliness of the mother’s home, or their past records, even though they had changed their behaviour, and the gang affiliations of former partners.

Glavish also accused the agency of not allowing extended Māori families to care for children – an established cultural practice – when relatives thought that was the best option.

“For us here there is no way that we are actually going to allow it to continue,” Glavish said. “We’ve reached a stage where enough is enough.”

In a statement, Oranga Tamariki said it had seen a 50% drop in the number of Māori infants coming into care in the last two years, but any decision on a transfer of power was one for the government.

The statement noted that the Waitangi Tribunal was currently assessing whether Oranga Tamariki legislation, policies and practices are consistent with the Treaty of Waitangi, with specific regard to the disproportionate numbers of tamariki Māori being taken into state care.

Becroft said it was “very heartening” that minister for children Kelvin Davis, who is Māori, “has committed to ‘fixing’ the state care and protection system”.

“Our view, however, after extensive inquiry, is that it is unlikely that Oranga Tamariki or any other iteration of it, can deliver care and protection interventions and services in a way that will be most effective for tamariki (children) and whānau Māori,” Becroft said.

“I believe only Māori can do this for Māori in a way that will deliver the best and enduring outcomes for tamariki.”





No.38 article:
The neo-Nazi symbol posted by Pete Evans has a strange and dark history

The sonnenrad is associated with a grab bag of esoteric racist nonsense, but that doesn’t make it any less powerful as a symbol of hatred and murder

If you weren’t aware that the symbol posted by Pete Evans is functionally equivalent to a swastika, that’s because part of its attraction to contemporary neo-Nazis is its slight obfuscation of the true nature of their movement.

It’s also because it has been more widely adopted as a symbol for the racist politics of fascism as the focus of that movement has changed its emphasis from ultranationalism to a transnational focus on supposed dangers to the white race, wherever they may be.

But it may also have something to do with the pervasive, uncanny amnesia that has been imposed on Australians in the scant 18 months since the worst overseas terrorist attack carried out by one of its citizens.

The symbol Evans deployed was the sonnenrad, the “sunwheel swastika”, or black sun. It has its origins as a pictographic representation of the sun in ancient Norse paganism.

Similar symbols can be found in other cultures, ancient and modern. Certain versions of the Celtic cross contain similar pictographs. The swastika itself arose independently in a range of cultures, and in some also represents the sun. In modern times, pagans with no connection to neo-Nazism – who may not have any particular secular political engagement at all – may employ the sunwheel or other ancient symbols in a benign manner.

In a video posted to Facebook, Evans denied he was a racist and said he had to “Google the meaning of neo-Nazi”.

“The mainstream media have come out and labelled me a racist and a Neo-Nazi … but it is a load of garbage,” he said.

Nevertheless the sunwheel, with the swastika, is one of a number of ancient symbols that were appropriated by the Nazis in the interwar period to signal their belief that they were destroying the German and European status quo in order to facilitate the glorious rebirth of Aryan civilisation which they thought had been corrupted and stymied by its racial enemies.

But as with everything the Nazis did, the emphasis in reviving these symbols was less on faithful historical accuracy and more on facilitating further racist myth-making.

When Heinrich Himmler, the head of Hitler’s SS, ordered a sonnenrad floor mosaic to be installed in the castle at Wewelsburg when he was remodelling it to serve as an organisational and spiritual headquarters of the Nazi paramilitary group, he and the craftsman involved may have taken some Merovingian coins as a model.

But they were careful to include the so-called “Sig” rune as the rays of the sun, thus reproducing the SS’s existing insignia in a symbol intended to create a false ethnic continuity between modern Germans and the ancient Norse, the prospect of racial revival through cleansing violence, and also to invoke the occult in a way that nazism adopted from long-standing German “volkisch” racial cults.

After the Nazis brought Germany to ruin, the remnant true believers incorporated the “black sun” and eventually the sonnenrad symbol into a loose assortment of occult beliefs that, together, must rate as one of the most elaborate coping strategies in modern history.

A former SS man Wilhelm Landig coined the occult idea of a “black sun” that supposedly gave its energy to the ancient Aryans when they inhabited “Hyperborea” in the polar regions. “Esoteric nazism”, which gathered pace in the far right in the last quarter of the 20th century, incorporated a grab bag of nonsense from earlier European esoteric traditions (including specifically racialist groups like the Thule and Vril societies), and sometimes posited outlandish theories of extraterrestrial origins for the supposed Aryan race, Nazi UFOs, or a hollow earth.

According to Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, whose book Black Sun offers an authoritative history of esoteric nazism, the first connection between the occult “black sun” concept and the symbology of the Wewelsburg mosaic happened in 1991, in a pseudonymously written pulp thriller. Thus transformed into a symbol of a (false) history of a mythical Aryan race, and a future racial renewal, it has been “an esoteric symbol among younger neo-Nazis … since the 1990s”, according to Clarke.

Part of its attraction was that while displaying the Nazi swastika is taboo, or even illegal in some territories, the sonnenrad is not so instantly recognisable as a hate symbol. But in Australia, in particular, it should be more widely reviled.

Its most prominent recent deployment was as a cover image for the manifesto of Brenton Tarrant, the Australian who massacred 51 worshippers at two Christchurch mosques in March 2019. In the context of Tarrant’s mass murder, according to the eminent historian of fascism, Roger Griffin, the sonnenrad is “the logo of ‘universal’ nazism” which “is now the ideology not of the rebirth of Germany, but of the mythical white ‘Aryan’ race fighting the alleged ethnic and ideological enemies of its ‘purity’ all over the world”.

For Nazis like Tarrant, Griffin argues, “multiculturalism and Islam, which were not issues for the Third Reich, are the central symptoms of societal decline to be eliminated”. In Tarrant’s manifesto and his actions in response to this belief “lies the obsessive theme of all genuine fascism: the status quo must be destroyed for ‘the nation’ [in this case not a nation state but an entire ethnic category] to be reborn”.

The meme Evans shared, which straightforwardly depicts the transition from Trumpian American nationalism to a Tarrant-style worldview, symbolised by the black sun, is an alarming indication of the extent to which the symbol has been disseminated.

We should consider why and how this has happened.

The significant overlap – past and present – between far right conspiracism and occultism, and “new age” esotericism – is something that has been considered too little in thinking about how people are exposed to racist extremist material online and are radicalised.

At the same time, Evans’ apparent ignorance about the true weight of the symbol and his surprise at the pushback he received may indicate a broader problem.

At the time of Tarrant’s massacre, there was some hopeful speculation that there would be a reckoning in Australian culture, including its media, about hate speech, Islamophobia, and anti-multicultural rhetoric.

Rather than soul-searching, however, the parts of Australia’s media which are most responsible for attacks on multiculturalism, migrants and anti-racists have chosen to continue as before, and simply to deny or ignore Tarrant’s position as an Australian racist, and to only sparingly mention him.

The hate symbol that Tarrant ordained his killing spree with should be instantly recognisable to Australians as a marker of danger, shame, and the white supremacy our society needs to confront.

That it still needs explaining is an indictment on the poverty of our debates on race.





No.39 article:
Paid-for test option welcomed as ‘light at end of the tunnel’ for struggling travel industry

The two-week quarantine period for international arrivals to England is to be cut to as little as five days next month, with travellers allowed to leave self-isolation after a negative Covid-19 test.

The government said the new “test to release” regime would be in place from 15 December.

Airlines said it was “light at the end of the tunnel” for the struggling travel industry, but said most travel would only return when a pre-departure testing regime was in place.

Passengers who choose to use the scheme must book a test before travel – and pay for it privately – from a list of government-approved suppliers, which has yet to be published. The cost is likely to be between £65 and £120.

Anyone arriving in England by plane, ferry or train will still need to complete a passenger locator form and self-isolate for five full days before taking a test.

The transport secretary, Grant Shapps, said the plan would “ensure that our route out of this pandemic is careful and balanced, allowing us to focus on what we can now do to bolster international travel while keeping the public safe.

“Our new testing strategy will allow us to travel more freely, see loved ones and drive international business. By giving people the choice to test on day five, we are also supporting the travel industry as it continues to rebuild out of the pandemic.”

A travel taskforce, chaired by Shapps, reported to the prime minister earlier this month. Shapps’ view is that a test after five days of self-isolation would give more accurate results and reduce the risk of false negatives, compared with a test on arrival favoured by airlines and airports. The government has pointed to the examples of Germany and Iceland, which amended test-on-arrival regimes in favour of a similar delayed test.

Both British Airways and Virgin described the move as a significant step in the right direction, but said a pre-departure testing regime was needed.

Airlines UK said the move should cause a tentative rise in demand. Tim Alderslade, the industry association’s chief executive, said: “That said, a test at day five does not get rid of quarantine and that’s why we look forward to working with government to move towards a pre-departure or domestic testing regime. But there is now light at the end of the tunnel.”

The travel association Abta said it would make travel more attractive and manageable but there was “still more work to be done to support the recovery of the sector, including having a testing scheme in place for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.”

The International Air Transport Association (Iata) said momentum was building worldwide for testing to replace quarantine. Its chief executive, Alexandre de Juniac, said: “Encouraging results from testing pilot programmes should now give states the confidence to move forward quickly.”

Iata said it was finalising a digital “travel pass” that could, with governments’ agreement, allow passengers to store all vaccination or testing information along with travel documentation and tickets, allowing more contactless travel at airports and reducing the risk of the virus spreading.

Meanwhile, the UK government has announced more financial support for struggling airports and ground handlers in England with a scheme, starting in 2021, that would address fixed costs and be equivalent to their business rates.

With a cap of £8m per business, it is likely to be welcomed by smaller, regional airports but represents a fraction of the money sought by Heathrow, which has been lobbying to waive its rates bill of more than £100m annually.

The aviation industry has criticised the lack of government assistance, after hopes were raised by the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, early in the pandemic that bespoke help would be offered. However, Sunak said the government had supported the industry “throughout this crisis through the job retention scheme, loans and tax deferrals”.






