No.1 article:
‘Small Town, No Hospital’: Covid-19 Is Overwhelming Rural West Texas

As cases soar in Texas, hospitals are filling up from El Paso to Lubbock. The Big Bend region is especially vulnerable, with just one hospital for 12,000 square miles.

ALPINE, Texas — It is one of the fastest-growing coronavirus hot spots in the nation, but there are no long lines of cars piled up for drive-through testing and no rush of appointments to get swabbed at CVS.

That’s because in the rugged, rural expanse of far West Texas, there is no county health department to conduct daily testing, and no CVS store for more than 100 miles. A handful of clinics offer testing to those who are able to make an appointment.

Out past the seesawing oil pumpjacks of Midland and Odessa, where roadrunners flit across two-lane roads and desert shrubs freckle the long, beige horizon, the Big Bend region of Texas is one of the most remote parts of the mainland United States and one of the least equipped to handle an infectious disease outbreak. There is just one hospital for 12,000 square miles and no heart or lung specialists to treat serious cases of Covid-19.

But in a sign that the virus is surging nearly everywhere, the counties that include Big Bend ranked among the top 20 in the nation last week for the most new cases per capita.

Big Bend, best known for its sprawling national park and the artist town of Marfa, offers an extreme example of the danger playing out across the country, as the virus blazes more widely and furiously than ever before, driving deaths to levels not seen since the spring and thrusting many places into crisis at the same time. From California to Texas to Mississippi, hospitals are filling up and health officials in rural communities increasingly fear that they are on their own.

“There is no neurologist, there is no long-term care specialist,” said Dr. J.P. Schwartz, the health authority in Big Bend’s Presidio County and a physician at a local clinic. “We have no care to help them whatsoever. There is not even a nursing home out here.”

Even as hospitalizations and deaths in Texas near their summer peaks, local officials fear they have little power to intervene beyond the measures that Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, has put in place.

“My hands are tied,” said Eleazar R. Cano, the judge in Brewster County, who said he had been advised against imposing a stay-at-home order or other stricter measures that could violate the governor’s order. Mr. Cano, a Democrat, compared governing through the pandemic to driving his truck through the desert on an empty gas tank, with no cellphone service to call for help.

“It’s helpless, frustrating, close to panic mode,” he said.

Driving the long miles between Big Bend’s sparsely populated towns, it is hard to fathom how a virus that thrives on human contact could flare in a place with so much wide-open space. Hawks reign in the big blue skies. Cellphone service is spotty. Christmas decorations along the road are not on people’s homes, but on their ranch gates.

Yet somehow, new cases have exploded in recent weeks.

In Brewster County, a sprawling behemoth with 9,200 people spread across 6,000 square miles, more than half of the 700-plus known cases have been identified in the last month. In neighboring Presidio County, with 6,700 people near the border with Mexico, cases have quadrupled in the last two months, from less than 100 to more than 470. Both communities skew older, with people 65 and older making up about a quarter of the population.

“The numbers are going straight up at this point,” said Malynda Richardson, the emergency medical services director for the city of Presidio, who coughed sporadically as she herself recovered from the icy chills and knockout fatigue of Covid-19.

There are a number of reasons for the spike.

The area is so remote that local residents have to travel to El Paso or Odessa for doctor’s appointments and to buy necessities at Walmart. With cases soaring across West Texas, the virus may have traveled back with them. Officials also cited everyday movement to and from Mexico, cases among young people at Sul Ross State University and a surge of tourists undeterred by the pandemic.

Visitation was up 20 percent at Big Bend National Park in October, park officials said, and on Thanksgiving weekend so many cars clogged the park it caused a traffic jam. In the liberal artist outpost of Marfa, young people from Austin and Dallas roam the town, sipping almond milk lattes and photographing murals that ask existential questions like, “Is austerity an illusion?” A recent art installation caused a stir with a blatant message against tourism during the pandemic: “Everyone here hates you.”

But tourism, it turns out, is not the biggest part of the problem.

The area’s limited contact tracing shows more localized spread — in bars, in multigenerational homes and through people who ignore positive test results and continue to work and socialize as normal.

In Alpine, the largest city, with a population of 5,900, residents wear masks with their cowboy hats to shop at Porter’s grocery store, but take them off to eat indoors at restaurants in town. There is far from universal agreement about whether masks are necessary and effective. In a sign of the dispute that has played out on and off social media, the county was left without a local health authority when the doctor in the position, a pediatrician working on a volunteer basis, quit this fall after facing pushback from residents who opposed mask orders and other restrictions.

Brewster County, which includes Alpine, has already instructed bars to close and reduced indoor dining at restaurants from 75 percent capacity to 50 percent, as required by the governor’s order for counties with a high proportion of Covid-19 hospitalizations. But enforcement is spotty, and the governor has barred local officials from imposing rules that are stricter than his own.

With resources scarce, local health clinics are a primary option for testing, but even then, the swabs have to be driven three hours to El Paso and flown for processing in Arlington, outside Dallas. The National Guard also offers periodic testing, and in response to the growing crisis, new mobile testing vans were scheduled to arrive this week.

For those who do get seriously sick, the hospital, Big Bend Regional Medical Center in Alpine, has just 25 beds and a makeshift Covid-19 ward where patients have been sequestered at the end of the lone, L-shaped hallway.

Dr. John Ray, a family practitioner who works shifts at the hospital, said the hospital on one recent day got back-to-back calls about incoming coronavirus patients. One of them had to be transferred to a bigger hospital in Odessa to receive specialized care.

Not long afterward, Dr. Ray said, he saw the patient’s obituary in the paper.

“I don’t want to see Alpine like the pictures you see in New York, just people dying in hallways waiting for a bed,” said Dr. Ray, 44, who grew up in the small East Texas town of Troup, moved to Wisconsin for his residency and returned to Texas afterward, settling in the Big Bend region in 2013 for the beauty and the people. He and his wife, also a doctor, usually treat a caseload of strep throat, urinary tract infections and pregnancy visits. Now, he said, “it’s Covid, Covid, Covid.”

Across West Texas, higher-level care hospitals are also full. El Paso, which was recently so overrun with infection that it brought in mobile morgues, is still recovering from its own virus surge. In Lubbock, as many as 50 percent of beds were recently filled with Covid-19 patients, and on a particularly bad day last week, the city reported that it had run out of hospital capacity altogether.

Dr. Ray fears there may come a day when more seriously ill patients who would normally be transferred elsewhere will run out of options. “To put it bluntly,” he said, “if you can’t go somewhere else, you are going to die here.”

A spokeswoman for the Big Bend Regional Medical Center said that the hospital has had enough room so far, and has added ventilators, oxygen tanks and nurses to prepare for a surge. Of nine patients in the hospital on Wednesday, four had Covid-19.

Still, many remain worried. Simone Rubi, 46, a graphic designer and musician who owns a coffee shop in Marfa, about a 30-minute drive from the hospital in Alpine, hung a poster outside her to-go window summing up the precarious situation in four words: “Small town, no hospital.”

“There will be no place for us to go if we get sick — that’s the bottom line,” she said, sitting on a picnic bench outside her shop on a recent Saturday morning.

“We’d have to drive to Dallas,” said her husband, Rob Gungor, who said he had asthma and had resigned himself to making the nearly eight-hour drive to stay at an Airbnb close to a major hospital if he contracted the virus, to be nearby in case he took a turn for the worse. Like most people in Marfa, which has accepted masks more readily than some other Big Bend towns, he wore a mask even while outdoors.

“Maybe Phoenix,” he added, “because it’s only a nine-hour drive.”

For those who live in even more rural parts of West Texas, navigating the coronavirus spike has come with consequences far beyond the virus itself.

In the border community of Terlingua, there is just one full-service ambulance for 3,000 square miles. Paramedics have on a few occasions had to drive coronavirus patients three hours round-trip to the hospital in Alpine, leaving the region uncovered for other serious emergencies.

“That has always been our draw — it’s an isolated, beautiful, unadulterated landscape,” said Sara Allen Colando, the county commissioner in Terlingua. But with cases rising, the wilderness is also its own kind of peril.

“If they have to take someone with Covid to God knows where, how long is it before that ambulance is back in service?” she said. “Who is going to be there to answer the call?”





No.2 article:
Fleeing Ethiopians Tell of Ethnic Massacres in Tigray War

HAMDAYET, Sudan — The armed men who stopped Ashenafi Hailu along the dirt road dragged him by a noose so they could save bullets.

Mr. Ashenafi, 24, was racing on his motorcycle to the aid of a childhood friend trapped by the Ethiopian government’s military offensive in the northern region of Tigray when a group of men on foot confronted him. They identified themselves as militia members of a rival ethnic group, he said, and they took his cash and began beating him, laughing ominously.

“Finish him!” Mr. Ashenafi remembered one of the men saying.

As they tightened the noose around his neck and began pulling him along the road, Mr. Ashenafi was sure he was going to die, and he eventually passed out. But he said he awoke alone near a pile of bodies, children among them. His motorcycle was gone.

Mr. Ashenafi and dozens of other Tigrayan refugees fled the violence and settled outside the remote and dusty town of Hamdayet, a community of just a few thousand people near the border, where I spoke to them. Their firsthand accounts, shared a month after Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, declared war on the Tigray region, detail a devastating conflict that has become a grisly wellspring of looting, ethnic antagonism and killings.

Many of the refugees have lingered here rather than moving on to the more established refugee camps farther into Sudan, staying closer to home so they can get any news about their towns or missing loved ones. But little information is getting out, with mobile networks and the internet blocked for weeks by the Ethiopian government.

Nearly 50,000 have fled to Sudan so far, in what the United Nations has called the worst exodus of refugees Ethiopia has seen in more than two decades. And their accounts contradict the repeated claims from Mr. Abiy, who won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for ending the border conflict with neighboring Eritrea, that no civilians are being hurt.

The Tigrayans describe being caught between indiscriminate military shelling and a campaign of killing, rape and looting by government-allied ethnic militias. Several told me that they saw dozens of bodies along the route as they fled their shops, homes and farms and took to the long road to the border with Sudan, in stifling heat.

As the fighting in Tigray continues, it is degenerating into a guerrilla war that could unravel both Ethiopia’s national fabric and the stability of the entire Horn of Africa region. That includes Eritrea, which is allied with Ethiopia against the Tigray and has been shelled by the rebel forces; and Sudan, which has heavily deployed its army along its restive border with Ethiopia even as it has allowed refugees to cross.

The Tigray make up about 6 percent of Ethiopia’s 110 million people, and they were the arbiters of power and money in the country from 1991, when they helped dismantle a military dictatorship, until 2018, when anti-government protests catapulted Mr. Abiy to power.

Mr. Abiy had sought to emphasize national unity and diversity in a multiethnic Ethiopia, even as he began methodically excluding Tigrayan figures from public life and condemning their abuses while they were in power. Now, the conflict stands at stark odds with the legacy he was seeking, and with the stability of the entire country.

If Mr. Abiy’s aim was to unite an increasingly divided country, then “this conflict has made that harder to achieve, and so increased the likelihood of serious ongoing political instability,” said William Davison, a senior Ethiopia analyst with the International Crisis Group who was recently expelled from the country.

Adding to the deadly mix are the involvement of rival ethnic militia groups. One of them is the Fano, a militia from the Amhara ethnic group. Along with Amhara regional government security forces, Fano took part in the intervention in Tigray, Mr. Davison said.

While Fano is a term loosely used to refer to young Amhara militias or protesters, Mr. Davison added that it is also “the name given to youthful Amhara vigilante groups that become more active during times when there is perceived to be insecurity that is not being managed by the authorities.”

Tigrayan refugees in Sudan said that Fano fighters attacked and maimed them, ransacked their properties and extorted them as they sought to flee. Many of the Tigrayans, including Mr. Ashenafi, said that they were afraid of going back and that the experience had left them sleepless and scarred.

After Mr. Ashenafi awoke and saw the bodies around him, he trudged through a nearby forest to reach the home of his friend, Haftamu Berhanu, who took him in. Photos taken by Mr. Haftamu and seen by The New York Times showed Mr. Ashenafi lying on his back, white skin peeled away around his neck from the noose.

For days afterward, Mr. Ashenafi could not talk or swallow anything and communicated with his friend through pointing or writing things down.

“It was heartbreaking,” Mr. Haftamu said of the days caring for his friend.

“I didn’t expect in our life that our government would kill us,” Mr. Ashenafi said. “I am frightened so much. I am not sleeping at night.”

Many of the refugees who made it to Sudan have been resettled to the Um Rakuba camp about 43 miles away from the border. But many are also staying around a refugee transit point in Hamdayet, hoping to return home or reunite with their families once it is safe.

In this dusty outpost, the refugees convene every morning at the Tekeze River, a natural border between Ethiopia and Sudan, to shower, collect water and clean whatever clothes they brought with them. On a recent afternoon, as children dived into the flowing river and Ethiopian music played from a nearby phone, the refugees recounted scenes of horror that they witnessed.

Many told me that they came from Humera, an agricultural town of about 30,000 people near both the Sudanese and Eritrean borders. Thousands suddenly fled the town with whatever they could carry when shelling began around midnight from what the refugees said was the direction of Eritrea.

Some gathered first at nearby churches, but after hearing that other churches had been shelled, they started the hourslong journey on foot to Sudan. They said that militia fighters began streaming in.

“The Amhara militia cut people’s heads,” said a Humera resident named Meles, who wanted to be identified by only his first name out of fear of retribution.

Meles, who owned a small cafe, said that the Fano’s reputation preceded them and that just as he feared, he encountered many dead bodies along the way to Sudan. As he spoke to me, a crowd gathered near him on the banks of the river, many nodding and verbally affirming his account as he told it.

At least 139 children are among those who arrived in Sudan unaccompanied, many of whom are now at risk of abuse and discrimination, according to the organization Save the Children.

With the Tigray region sandwiched between the Amhara region and Eritrea, which is aligned with the Ethiopian national government, Meles said he was glad that refugees like him had another outlet for escape.

“Thank God there’s Sudan for us to turn to,” he said.

“I had to speak my fluent Amharic to survive,” said Filimon Shishay, a 21-year-old Tigrayan who said he encountered the Fano and had to part with the $5 he had with him. “They hate us,” he said.

There has long been enmity between the Tigray and Amhara. When Tigrayan rebels seized power in 1991, Amharas claimed that the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which governed the region, occupied land that historically belonged to them.

“The widespread assumption is T.P.L.F. wanted to annex these areas in order to have a border with Sudan and to tap into the fertile land for economic development,” Hone Mandefro, an Ethiopian analyst and a doctoral candidate in sociology and anthropology at Concordia University in Canada, said in an email.

Mr. Davison of the International Crisis Group said that with Amhara security and militia forces active in Tigray in recent weeks, and with some Amhara administrators put in place there, “it appears to be a de facto Amhara occupation of territory they claim the T.P.L.F. annexed.”

The move is likely to lead to violent Tigrayan reprisals, he said, as may have already occurred in the town of Mai Kadra, where human rights groups have said forces loyal to the liberation front massacred as many as 600 people, most of them Amhara.

Many refugees in Hamdayet blamed politicians, and particularly Mr. Abiy, for pitting civilians against one another. “The Amhara and the Tigray are one,” Negese Berhe Hailu, a 25-year-old engineer, said.

Hadas Hagos, 67, fled her home in Humera — which is part of the larger West Tigray area the Amharas claim — and worried she wouldn’t be able to go back or see the family members she left behind. Other refugees who arrived later informed her that her home had been looted.

“We fought for freedom and democracy,” said Ms. Hadas, breaking into tears as she recounted how she and her family fought against the Marxist regime in the 1980s, and how she lost her brother to the war. “We don’t deserve this kind of life.”





No.3 article:
U.S. and States Say Facebook Illegally Crushed Competition

Regulators are accusing the company of buying up rising rivals to cement its dominance over social media.

WASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission and more than 40 states accused Facebook on Wednesday of buying up its rivals to illegally squash competition, and they called for the deals to be unwound, escalating regulators’ battle against the biggest tech companies in a way that could remake the social media industry.

Federal and state regulators of both parties, who have investigated the company for over 18 months, said in separate lawsuits that Facebook’s purchases, especially Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp for $19 billion two years later, eliminated competition that could have one day challenged the company’s dominance.

Since those deals, Instagram and WhatsApp have skyrocketed in popularity, giving Facebook control over three of the world’s most popular social media and messaging apps. The applications have helped catapult Facebook from a company started in a college dorm room 16 years ago to an internet powerhouse valued at more than $800 billion.

The lawsuits, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, underscore the growing bipartisan and international tsunami against Big Tech. Lawmakers and regulators have zeroed in on the grip that Facebook, Google, Amazon and Apple maintain on commerce, electronics, social networking, search and online advertising, remaking the nation’s economy.

President Trump has argued repeatedly that the tech giants have too much power and influence, and allies of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. make similar complaints. The federal case against Facebook is widely expected to continue under Mr. Biden’s administration.

The investigations already led to a lawsuit against Google, brought by the Justice Department two months ago, that accuses the search giant of illegally protecting a monopoly. Prosecutors in that case, though, stopped short of demanding that Google break off any parts of its business. At least one more suit against Google, by both Republican and Democratic officials, is expected by the end of the year. In Europe, regulators are proposing tougher laws against the industry and have issued billions of dollars in penalties for the violation of competition laws.

Facebook, the prosecutors said Wednesday, should break off Instagram and WhatsApp, and they said new restrictions should apply to the company on future deals. Those are some of the most severe penalties regulators can demand. Facebook said it planned to vigorously defend itself against the accusations.

“For nearly a decade, Facebook has used its dominance and monopoly power to crush smaller rivals and snuff out competition, all at the expense of everyday users,” said Attorney General Letitia James of New York, a Democrat who led the multistate investigation into the company in parallel with the federal agency, which is overseen by a Republican.

The lawsuits against Facebook will set off a long legal battle. The company has long denied any illegal anticompetitive behavior and has a deep well of money to put toward its defense. Few major antitrust cases have centered on mergers approved years earlier. The F.T.C. did not block Facebook’s deals for Instagram and WhatsApp during the Obama administration.

If the prosecutors succeed, the cases could remake the company, which has experienced only unfettered growth. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has described a breakup of the company as an “existential” threat. The company’s stock fell 2 percent, to $277.70 a share, after the lawsuits were announced.

The case is also being widely watched as a gauge for future mergers within the technology industry, which have continued to boom during the pandemic. Last month, Facebook said it was buying Kustomer, a customer relationship management start-up, for close to $1 billion.

Facebook said the regulators had ignored important history.

“The most important fact in this case, which the commission does not mention in its 53-page complaint, is that it cleared these acquisitions years ago,” Jennifer Newstead, Facebook’s general counsel, said in a statement. “The government now wants a do-over, sending a chilling warning to American business that no sale is ever final.”

The company has also argued in the past that the market for social media remained competitive. Executives have pointed to the skyrocketing growth of TikTok, the Chinese short-video sharing app, and new growth in Parler, a social media firm popular among conservatives, as evidence that Facebook doesn’t have a lock on social networking.

The suit against Facebook shows how important the company has become for how Americans connect to one another. Its namesake product swelled to hundreds of millions of users in just a few short years. But by 2011, the landscape began to change as mobile phones came equipped with capable cameras, and posting photos to social networks grew increasingly popular.

That led to the rise of a competitive threat to Facebook: Instagram. The photo-sharing site, founded in 2010, saw early explosive growth as a company that was native to the smartphone, perfectly timed for mass adoption as waves of consumers gravitated away from desktop devices and toward the mobile computers in their pockets.

The F.T.C. said it found that Mr. Zuckerberg “recognized Instagram as a vibrant and innovative personal social network and an existential threat to Facebook’s monopoly power.”

But instead of continuing to compete with its own photo-sharing project, Facebook chose to buy its rival. The company repeated the practice with WhatsApp, which was a viable competitor to its own messaging system.

The agency also claims that Facebook maintained its dominance by threatening to cut off third-party software developers from plugging into the social network if they made competing products.

“Our aim,” said Ian Conner, who oversees antitrust enforcement at the agency, “is to roll back Facebook’s anticompetitive conduct and restore competition so that innovation and free competition can thrive.”

The lawsuits set off a chorus of bipartisan support on Capitol Hill.

“Facebook has crushed competition by breaking the law,” Representative Ken Buck, a Republican of Colorado and member of the House judiciary committee, wrote on Twitter. “Big Tech’s reckoning has just begun.”

Representative David Cicilline, a Rhode Island Democrat who led an investigation into the big tech companies, said: “Facebook has broken the law. It must be broken up.”

He added, “This marks a major step in our ongoing work to bring the tech industry’s monopoly moment to an end.”

Federal regulators began looking into Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google in June 2019, in a sweeping effort to find anticompetitive practices among the tech platforms. States started to investigate not long after.

Cases around Google and Facebook, two companies with clear dominance in their markets of search, social media and online advertising, took shape faster than those against the other companies. Google had been the subject of a search antitrust investigation that closed at the F.T.C. in 2013 without a lawsuit but created a trove of information. Facebook’s case quickly coalesced around its prior mergers, which regulators were able to investigate because of its past investigations into those acquisitions, some people close to the investigations said.

The F.T.C. was split on its decision to pursue the lawsuit, with its chairman, Joseph Simons, a Republican appointed by Mr. Trump, and the two Democratic commissioners joined in their vote. The two remaining Republican commissioners voted against the lawsuit.

The state suit was signed by attorneys general from 46 states and the District of Columbia and Guam. Georgia, South Dakota, Alabama and South Carolina did not join the case.

There is a history of states going after large tech companies. In the landmark antitrust suit against Microsoft two decades ago, state attorneys general played a crucial role in pushing the case through years of litigation.

Several Facebook rivals, including Snap, came forward to present evidence of what they said was anticompetitive behavior. Mr. Zuckerberg was interviewed for the federal investigation, and prosecutors collected many of his communications to Facebook employees, investors and the leaders of the rivals he bought and tried to buy.

In a hearing before the House judiciary committee last July, Mr. Zuckerberg was confronted with emails from around the time of the acquisition of Instagram and WhatsApp that showed the Facebook founder saw the companies as competition and potentially a threat. Mr. Zuckerberg said that the acquisitions have not reduced competition and that the emails were taken out of context.

The agency and states said the purchases ended up giving Facebook data on users that fed into its business of behavioral advertising, buttressing its monopoly.

“Facebook has coupled its acquisition strategy with exclusionary tactics that snuffed out competitive threats,” the states said in their suit, “and sent the message to technology firms that, in the words of one participant, if you stepped into Facebook’s turf or resisted pressure to sell, Zuckerberg would go into ‘destroy mode,’ subjecting your business to the ‘wrath of Mark.’”





No.4 article:
Carnegie Hall Stands By Its Chairman, Despite Tax Violations

Robert F. Smith has acknowledged his involvement in a 15-year scheme to hide more than $200 million in income and evade taxes, but he retains the support of the hall’s board.

When Robert F. Smith, the billionaire philanthropist, became the new chairman of Carnegie Hall in 2016, he seemed almost too good to be true.

He promised to be a stabilizing presence at Carnegie after the brief, tumultuous reign of his predecessor. He was a benefactor with deep pockets and a strong interest in the hall’s education efforts. He was the rare board leader of color in a field where diversity lags. And he was cheered as a national hero last year when, during his commencement address at Morehouse College, he pledged to pay off the student debt of the entire graduating class.

So it came as a shock this fall when Mr. Smith, 58, admitted to having played a supporting role in what federal prosecutors called the largest tax evasion case in U.S. history — acknowledging that he had “willfully failed to report” over $200 million in income — and signed a nonprosecution agreement in which he agreed to pay large fines and cooperate with investigators.

Mr. Smith’s admission that he had failed to report a substantial amount of income to the I.R.S. made Carnegie Hall the latest in a line of major cultural institutions that have found themselves facing questions about the actions of the benefactors that they rely on for their very survival. Carnegie’s leaders are standing firmly behind Mr. Smith, even as some philanthropy experts question whether he should remain in the position.

“I am a huge fan,” said Sanford I. Weill, a member of Carnegie’s board who served as its chairman for 29 years. “He has done an outstanding job leading Carnegie Hall. He has been very philanthropic and he has helped grow our institution to reach new heights.”

The news could not have landed at a more difficult moment for Carnegie, the nation’s premiere concert hall, with its stage silenced by the pandemic that has put the classical music industry in crisis. A poster near its locked front doors this fall riffed on the ancient joke — “How do you get to Carnegie Hall? Practice, practice, practice!” — with a plea for “Patience, patience, patience.”

By way of explanation, Mr. Smith has essentially said he is human and he is sorry.

“I can learn from my mistakes. And I have,” Mr. Smith — who declined to be interviewed — told Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times during DealBook’s recent Online Summit. “It’s clear to me that in order for me to focus on the problems of the present, I need to resolve the issues of the past and problems of the past — and the settlement offered me that ability to do so.

“So I’ve agreed to it,” Mr. Smith continued. “I’m moving forward, I’ve made right with the government. And — now I’m absolutely committed to continuing my important work, my philanthropy.”

Carnegie Hall’s board members seem to have accepted Mr. Smith’s mea culpa and moved on. “He is beloved,” said Darren Walker, the president of the Ford Foundation, who is a Carnegie trustee. “I do not think we should ask for his resignation. And I don’t think you will find anybody on the Carnegie Hall board who disagrees.”

Still, it is not always easy for even pre-eminent institutions to navigate the intersection of power, extreme wealth and high culture.

The Metropolitan Opera took the name of one prominent benefactor, the investor Alberto W. Vilar, off its grand tier in 2003 after some promised pledges failed to materialize; he was later convicted of fraud. L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, sought a prominent profile in New York’s art world, joining the board of the Whitney Museum of American Art, before being convicted of grand larceny, conspiracy and fraud.

Amid mounting public pressure, the Metropolitan Museum of Art recently felt compelled to swear off money from members of the Sackler family because of their links to OxyContin. And last year Warren B. Kanders was forced to step down as a vice chairman of the Whitney after protests over his company’s sale of tear gas. (He later got out of the tear gas business.)

But many institutions stand by their supporters, even if they bring a trail of bad headlines.

The hedge fund titan Steven A. Cohen, whose SAC Capital Advisors agreed in 2013 to plead guilty to insider trading violations and paid a record $1.8 billion penalty, is on the board of the Museum of Modern Art.

And MoMA has been noticeably silent on whether it is reviewing the status of its chairman, Leon Black, the billionaire private equity executive, who paid at least $50 million to Jeffrey Epstein for financial advice in the years after Mr. Epstein’s 2008 conviction for soliciting prostitution from a teenage girl.

Mr. Smith has admitted to hiding more than $200 million in income and evading millions of dollars in taxes by using an offshore trust structure and offshore bank accounts. In a letter to his investors, Mr. Smith said that he had created the structure 20 years ago “at the insistence of my only investor in my first private equity fund.”

The Justice Department said in a news release that Mr. Smith had used millions of dollars of the unreported income to “acquire and make improvements to real estate used for his personal benefit,” including buying and renovating a vacation home in Sonoma, Calif., and buying “two ski properties and a piece of commercial property in France.”

Mr. Smith ultimately donated all the money in the offshore trust structure to his foundation, the Fund II Foundation, which he established in 2014, he wrote this fall to his investors. The foundation has made over $250 million dollars in contributions to a broad range of institutions, including Carnegie Hall, as well as to an array of organizations and initiatives that support vulnerable populations.

As part of his agreement with prosecutors, Mr. Smith will pay $139 million in taxes and penalties, abandon a $182 million tax refund he had been seeking for charitable contributions, and cooperate with ongoing investigations. The main target of those investigations is Mr. Smith’s associate and early investor, Robert T. Brockman, a Houston tech executive who has been charged with hiding $2 billion in income from the I.R.S. in what prosecutors called “the largest ever tax charge against an individual in the United States.”

“Since first learning about the Department of Justice’s investigation, I have cooperated fully for the last four and one-half years and have provided all relevant information to them,” Mr. Smith said in the letter to his investors. “The decision made 20 years ago has regrettably led to this turmoil, which has put undue stress and burden on too many.”

Experts in philanthropy said that they believe the donations he made to Carnegie were not likely at risk of having to be returned.

“He reached a plea agreement and paid penalties, so I don’t think there is any exposure,” said Daniel L. Kurtz, an attorney specializing in nonprofits. “It’s hard to find somebody who’s that wealthy who doesn’t have some issue in the past — I don’t think we make that the measure of the value of their gifts.”

But some experts in philanthropy and corporate governance questioned whether he should remain chairman, including Patricia Illingworth, a professor at Northeastern University and the editor of “Giving Well: The Ethics of Philanthropy.”

“Although he has practiced some thoughtful philanthropy, especially the Morehouse gift, he has also been complicit in a 15-year scheme to avoid paying his fair share of taxes, placing an unjust burden on those who are not in a position to bear it,” she said.

And John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School who specializes in corporate governance, said that while he thinks Mr. Smith should be able to remain on Carnegie’s board, he should give up the chairmanship. He said that “Carnegie is wearing a self-imposed blindfold (probably in the hopes of future donations) when they ignore this.”

Mr. Smith took the helm of the Carnegie board after the short and stormy tenure of his predecessor, the billionaire Ronald O. Perelman, who stepped down after clashing with the hall’s leadership. His departure put an end to talks about a new major Perelman gift; soon after he left, he donated $75 million to build a performing arts center at the World Trade Center site.

After Mr. Smith arrived, things seemed to calm down on Carnegie’s board.

Clive Gillinson, Carnegie’s long-serving executive and artistic director, said he had “absolute, complete trust” in Mr. Smith. “Everybody makes mistakes in life; what matters is how you deal with them,” he said. “And he’s a man of great integrity, that’s everything that I see.”

The reluctance of Carnegie Hall’s board to dethrone Mr. Smith is understandable; he is financially generous, gets high marks as a collegial steward, and — named the richest Black man in America by Forbes in 2015 — is the first African-American to hold the Carnegie Hall post at a time when the lack of diversity at many cultural organizations has become a pressing issue.

Moreover, good arts leaders are hard to find and increasingly necessary in a time when institutions are struggling through the Covid crisis.

“When you have a wonderful chair who is a good leader and generous, it can be challenging to ask them to depart,” said Michael M. Kaiser, chairman of the DeVos Institute of Arts Management at the University of Maryland, who has run several major arts institutions. “Great chairs don’t grow on trees.”

Emily K. Rafferty, the former president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who is also on the board, called Mr. Smith “an extremely effective chairman — unbelievably generous, really aligned with the mission and cause of Carnegie Hall.”

Nevertheless, Mr. Kaiser added, Mr. Smith’s conduct may give prospective donors pause, “or at least, there will always be the question about whether a new donor wants to engage with the organization and is comfortable with Mr. Smith as chairman.”

Mr. Smith has been a generous donor. Since 2014, he has given about $40 million to Carnegie, much of which was directed toward education and social impact programs. That money includes $20 million of his personal funds, with the other half coming from Mr. Smith’s Fund II Foundation, which helped finance the expansion of Carnegie Hall’s national music education programs.

Mr. Smith, who has a personal love of music (he named his youngest sons, Hendrix and Legend, after Jimi Hendrix and John Legend), has also supported the Hall’s National Youth Orchestra of the USA; Ensemble Connect, a fellowship program for young professional musicians; and its growing digital activities.

In addition, Mr. Smith has made substantial gifts to the National Museum of African American History and Culture; helped restore African-American monuments in national parks; supported the Louis Armstrong House Museum in New York; and given $50 million to Cornell’s School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, which was renamed for him.

Mr. Smith — who is based in Austin, Tex., where the private equity firm he founded, Vista Equity Partners, has its headquarters — grew up in Denver, graduated from Cornell and earned his M.B.A. from Columbia.

During the DealBook Summit, Mr. Smith said he was “excited about the opportunity to clean up the past.”

Similarly, Mr. Gillinson said he was focused on the future. “Who hasn’t made a mistake in their life? You deal with it in a really good way and move on,” he said. “All I can say is that I’m incredibly lucky to have had him as my partner.”

“Without exception,” Mr. Gillinson added, “everybody is 100 percent behind him.”





No.5 article:
Big Ten Changes Rules to Let Ohio State Play for Conference Championship

The shift is yet another example of college football changing its rules on the fly during the pandemic.

The Big Ten, faced with the possibility of being shut out of the College Football Playoff — and the $6 million plus payday that comes with it — rewrote its rules on Wednesday so that Ohio State could be placed in its conference championship game despite playing just five games this season.

The Buckeyes, 5-0 and ranked fourth, were faced with the prospect of not meeting the six-game threshold to qualify for the Big Ten title game on Dec. 19 after Michigan on Tuesday canceled this weekend’s rivalry game between the teams because of a coronavirus outbreak within the program.

Now, after the conference’s Administrators Council, which includes athletic directors and senior women administrators, changed the rules and eliminated a minimum-game restriction, Ohio State will face No. 14 Northwestern in Indianapolis for the conference title. The Buckeyes will also have a competitive advantage for that game, with an effective bye this week after the Michigan cancellation, while Northwestern plays Illinois on Saturday.

The conference said in a statement that the decision was based on “a competitive analysis,” because even if Ohio State had lost to Michigan it would have still finished ahead of Indiana, the second-place team in the conference, whose one loss in seven games came to Ohio State, 42-35, on Nov. 21.

The decision, like many involving the Big Ten this year, did not appear to be unanimous.

“Although we understand the conference’s decision, we are disappointed,” Indiana Athletic Director Scott Dolson said in a statement, which also acknowledged that the Hoosiers had a chance to earn a spot in the title game with a win at Ohio State.

The Big Ten shift was the latest instance of rules devised for this season being rewritten on the fly. The Atlantic Coast Conference canceled the final games for Notre Dame and Clemson to ensure they would play in the championship game. The Pac-12 earlier reworked its rules so that teams whose opponents had canceled games could schedule nonconference games. (Nebraska had sought a similar change in the Big Ten, but was rebuffed.)

But in a sign of how fragile the season has been, there is a chance Indiana may not have been able to play next week anyway. On Wednesday, Indiana, along with rival Purdue, jointly called off their Saturday game because of outbreaks on both teams. That cancellation means only three of the conference’s 14 teams (Penn State, Rutgers and Iowa) have a chance to play a complete eight-game schedule.

And in the Pac-12, Washington announced Wednesday it was pausing team activities ahead of Saturday’s game at Oregon, which is to determine the winner of the North division. If the game is canceled, Washington would advance to play Southern California or Colorado in the Pac-12 championship game — if it is able to do so.





No.6 article:
‘On Social Media, There Are Thousands’: In Cuba, Internet Fuels Rare Protests

Artists gathered by the hundreds in Cuba’s largest protest in decades after seeing videos of police detentions that were filmed on cellphones and circulated online.

HAVANA — In another era, the detention of a young Cuban dissident may have gone completely unnoticed. But when the rapper Denis Solís was arrested by the police, he did something that has only recently become possible on the island: He filmed the encounter on his cellphone and streamed it live on Facebook.

The stream last month prompted his friends in an artist collective to go on a hunger strike, which the police broke up after a week, arresting members of the group. But their detentions were also caught on cellphone videos and shared widely over social media, leading hundreds of artists and intellectuals to stage a demonstration outside the Culture Ministry the next day.

This swift mobilization of protesters was a rare instance of Cubans openly confronting their government — and a stark example of how having widespread access to the internet through cellphones is testing the power balance between the communist regime and its citizens.

“The videos had a huge impact on us,” said Tania Bruguera, one of the artists involved in the protests. “We saw that any artist in Cuba who decides to speak up, or question what the government says, or make art that asks uncomfortable questions, could receive the same treatment.”

It isn’t clear yet whether this incipient protest movement will gather the momentum and discipline needed to fundamentally transform a political system that has quashed decades of challenges — or will simply fade away. But the mere fact that such a large protest happened at all — and led to the creation of a formal movement with a name and a Facebook page — is in itself extraordinary in a country where the opposition is barely existent.

And as protesters’ demands have shifted from ending limits on artistic expression to pushing for more fundamental political freedoms, they have earned the attention of a growing swell of young Cubans not normally inclined toward activism.

“What is happening in Cuba is unprecedented,” said José Miguel Vivanco, the director of the Americas program at Human Rights Watch. “It’s an awakening.”

When President Trump came into office, he quickly rolled back the Obama administration’s reopening of relations between the two countries, which he called a “terrible and misguided deal.”

Yet one of the conditions baked into that deal — that Cuba broaden internet access — has continued to play out on the island, leading to greater pressure on the government.

Cuba first made it possible to get internet on cellphones two years ago, and now four million people can get online that way. A total of seven million Cubans — about two-thirds of the population — have some kind of access to the web, government data shows.

The government has blocked several critical websites, including Radio Martí, an anti-Castro news outlet funded by the U.S. government. But it allows access to major U.S. newspapers and Facebook, WhatsApp, and YouTube.

The upshot: There is a growing army of Cubans who can easily get online and use social media to organize around common causes.

Sometimes their campaigns are acceptable to the government, as was the case with the online animal rights advocates who got permission from authorities to hold a march against animal cruelty. Others, like the gay rights activists who were detained after using Facebook to organize a protest last year, were not as welcome.

The marches were small, but were among the first independently organized demonstrations on the island in decades.

“It is this awakening of civil society, facilitated by the spread of the internet and social media, which is posing this challenge to the government,” said William LeoGrande, a Cuba specialist at American University. “To what extent does a political system which prides itself on control allow the kind of civil society expression that we’ve seen growing?”

If not for Facebook, it may have been easy for the government to dismiss complaints from Mr. Solís, the detained rapper, and his artist friends.

In a country hammered by U.S. sanctions, the politics of some in the group have raised eyebrows. Mr. Solís is a die-hard Trump supporter: In the video he posted of his arrest, he screamed: “Donald Trump 2020! That’s my president.”

Some members of his artists’ collective, known as the San Isidro Movement, have been seen with U.S. embassy officials, a link the government has used to label them “mercenaries” intent on destabilizing Cuba.

Still, the clips of the police detaining Mr. Solís — who was later sentenced to eight months in jail for insulting law enforcement — and then cracking down on the artists’ peaceful hunger strike, did not sit well with many Cubans.

The night when the hunger strike was shut down, a much broader coalition of artists began messaging each other on WhatsApp and Facebook, and the next morning people started gathering in front of the Culture Ministry.

“We didn’t go there to defend those artists’ views,” said Ms. Bruguera, the visual artist who has been protesting. “We went there to defend the right of all artists to dissent.”

What started as anger over the arrests morphed into conversations among the artists about their frustration with limits to free expression on the island. They commiserated over their fear of government censorship or outright repression because of the art, theater or movies they produce.

“I want to do free art, without state security parked on my corner,” said Luis Manuel Otero Alcántara, a performance artist who led the hunger strike last month.

By nightfall, hundreds had gathered for the spontaneous protest against the government — something not seen in Cuba since the nation plunged into economic crisis after the fall of the Soviet Union in the 1990s. Troubadours, artists, playwrights, rappers and reggaetoneras played music, read poetry and sang the national anthem. When the ministry allowed a group of demonstrators into the building to negotiate, those gathered outside clapped every 10 minutes or so to express support.

Artists have a particular cachet in Cuba, a deeply patriotic nation that has long prided itself, including under communism, on the prowess of its cultural institutions.

And the government may have found it harder to outright reject this particular group of protesters, which included some of the nation’s most prominent artists. Jorge Perugorría, one of the most famous Cuban actors, and Fernando Pérez, a celebrated film director, both showed up that night.

“I will always go where I feel my presence can help,” Mr. Pérez said, adding he believed the protests “come from a great love of Cuba.”

The crowd also drew younger stars, like Yunior García, 38, who has worked for institutions linked to the state all his life, writing plays, short films and telenovelas for Cuban television.

“The fact that I’ve been permitted to create doesn’t mean I can stand by while others are censored,” he said.

But communication between the protesters and the ministry broke down after their initial meeting in late November. Protesters are now at an impasse with the government, and many now say they are being intimidated by the state’s security apparatus.

Several artists who were present say police vehicles are parked outside their homes, a tactic that some described as a form of house arrest. Ms. Bruguera has been detained twice by police when she ventured outside and said officers suggested she and others could be charged with “sedition and civil disobedience.”

In a report released this week, Human Rights Watch documented 34 instances in which the Cuban government has punished dissidents, including some involved with the artists’ movement, by accusing them of violating restrictions intended to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Nine were accused of not wearing a face mask properly.

Even holed up in their homes, however, many of the artists have continued to publicize what they say is harassment by the government in videos and posts on Facebook.

And the government has not stopped the flow of messages on WhatsApp group chats, which the protesters say is keeping the broader movement alive.

“The spark that we lit with the protest, that energy hasn’t left us,” said Luz Escobar, a journalist who attended the demonstration. “We feel that there were hundreds of people connected to it, and that was just on the streets.”

“On social media,” she added, “there are thousands.”





No.7 article:
Lorraine Millar, Resilient in the Face of Tragedy, Dies at 95

Ms. Millar persevered through a series of deaths in her family, succeeding in multiple careers and finding joy in life. She died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

In November 1979, Lorraine Millar’s 30-year-old son, John, died of cancer. The next month, her 24-year-old daughter, Michele, skidded on black ice while driving, turned into an embankment and was killed instantly.

One of her two surviving children, Marilyn, spiraled into depression. “Why am I still here?” she asked her mother during a phone call.

Ms. Millar responded with a letter. “She said, ‘You have two choices,’” her daughter, now Marilyn Altavilla, recalled. “‘You either give up and let your life wither away, or you become a survivor.’”

Ms. Millar made her choice clear: She was going to survive. Within weeks after her second child’s death, she moved from Connecticut to South Carolina to take on a new role running the human resources department of the chemical company she worked for. She took along her husband, whose bipolar disorder had forced him to leave his job.

“I felt if she could live through the death of her children, two children, and continue to forge ahead, that she was going to be my role model,” Ms. Altavilla said. “I knew that I was going to become a survivor like my mother.”

Ms. Millar died on Nov. 25 at Evergreen Woods, a nursing home in North Branford, Conn. She was 95.

The cause was Covid-19, Ms. Altavilla said.

Lorraine Mae Johnson was born on May 7, 1925, in Baker, Ore. Her father, Chris, ran a grain storage business he had inherited from his father; her mother, Blenda (Samuelson) Johnson, taught school in North Powder, the tiny nearby town where the family lived. Lorraine’s graduating class had seven students.

In 1946, at a dance in Walla Walla, Wash., where Lorraine attended Whitman College, she met Jack Millar, a Chicago boy stationed at a nearby military base. Less than three weeks later, they were engaged.

They married that summer. Ms. Millar moved with her husband to Chicago and missed graduating from college by just six credits.

In the mid-1960s, Mr. Millar’s career began to stall, and to put their children through college, Ms. Millar abandoned her life as a homemaker to take a job processing health claims at an insurance company. 

One Sunday morning in July 1988, Mr. Millar said he didn’t feel well, and Ms. Millar went to church without him. She returned home and noticed that the garage door, unusually, was closed. She looked inside and saw the car, which had overheated, was on fire. Mr. Millar was sitting inside. He had killed himself by carbon monoxide poisoning.

Ms. Millar retired the next year and started a new career as a tax preparer for H&amp;R Block. She began traveling on cruise ships, sometimes with a relative or friend but often alone. She met new people.

Ms. Millar had a pulmonary embolism in 2004 and nearly died. Again she started anew: She moved to Evergreen Woods, where she became treasurer of the facility’s general store and volunteered at the local library, preparing tax returns at no cost.

In addition to Ms. Altavilla, Ms. Millar is survived by her sisters, Joan Thompson and Patricia Kerns; a son, David; three grandchildren; and three step-grandchildren.

From the late 1980s to the early 2000s, Ms. Millar organized one- or two-week family vacations to Myrtle Beach, S.C. She would drive down with every necessity carefully packed: pancake mix, beach chairs, homemade spaghetti sauce. To her children and grandchildren, it was evidence of reliability.

“It was that repetition that we all loved so much, because we knew what to expect,” Ms. Altavilla said. “We knew Grandma. She was going to remember everything.”





No.8 article:
The Coronavirus Vaccines Were Developed in Record Speed. Now, the Hard Part.

Don’t squander this opportunity, America.

The Food and Drug Administration is expected to grant emergency use authorizations to the first two coronavirus vaccines in the next several days. The sheer speed with which doctors and scientists were able to reach this stage is a major achievement, and the early results for both vaccines are undeniably impressive. New vaccines normally take years to develop, and scientists initially worried.

But when all is said and done, making the vaccine might turn out to have been the easy part.

Earlier this year, before President-elect Joe Biden tapped her to head the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Rochelle Walensky ran a computer simulation to game out how a coronavirus vaccine might affect the continuing pandemic. Early reports that at least two vaccines were 95 percent effective at preventing illness were fueling hope that inoculation would bring the crisis to a speedy conclusion, and Dr. Walensky’s team wanted to see how realistic that hope might be.

Not very, it turns out. Dr. Walensky’s study found that the most important factor in a given vaccine’s success is not necessarily how well that vaccine works. It’s everything else: how quickly and strategically the vaccine is distributed across the country, how well received it is and whether people continue to abide by other edicts, like mask wearing and physical distancing. “We find that factors related to implementation will contribute more to the success of vaccination programs than a vaccine’s efficacy as determined in clinical trials,” Dr. Walensky and her co-authors wrote.

That’s especially bad news for the United States, which has invested billions of dollars into vaccine development, but very little into actually getting people vaccinated.

In the coming weeks and months, health institutions across the country — hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, pharmacies, health departments — will face the unprecedented challenge of administering several entirely novel vaccines, some with stringent and complicated storage requirements, in the middle of a raging pandemic, to a weary populace that tends to be public-health averse in the best of times. Many of these institutions are running on fumes after years of deep budget cuts and months of unrelenting crisis, and most of them have nowhere near the resources that experts say are needed to meet the coming challenges.

The Association of State and Territorial Health Officials has said that its members need at least $8.4 billion to develop and run successful coronavirus vaccination programs. So far, the federal government has allocated less than $400 million.

According the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, which analyzed the vaccine distribution plans for 47 states, most have not completed plans to expand their vaccine delivery systems — a monumental task that will include identifying and vetting hundreds, or potentially thousands, of new vaccine providers per state. Nearly half don’t have data management programs comprehensive or reliable enough to keep track of who gets inoculated when (crucial information, especially given that all the vaccines on offer so far involve two doses). Less than half say they are prepared to identify and tally the number of people in their state who will be eligible for the very first shots, and few — between half and one-third — have plans to combat vaccine misinformation or reach racial minorities and other vulnerable populations.

Each of these shortcomings has been exacerbated by a lack of clarity from federal officials about a range of critical issues. For example, many health systems say they are not even sure which vaccines they will receive, let alone how many doses. Without that information, it’s difficult to say whether the plans they have drafted on paper will actually work.

So far, health officials have done little to acknowledge the challenges that lie ahead. Moncef Slaoui, the head of Operation Warp Speed, has said that 100 million Americans could be immunized against the coronavirus in the next 100 days: 20 million in December, 30 million in January and 50 million February. That timeline may indeed be possible, but it seems unlikely. Some hospitals are not even planning to administer their first doses until mid-January. The second doses can’t be administered until three or four weeks after that, and full immunization will take about a week from there.

Congress could take a crucial step toward correcting these deficits by increasing the funding for state and local vaccination programs across the country. There’s already broad bipartisan support for doing so, but the provisions are being held hostage along with the rest of the federal budget. Lawmakers should extract those provisions and pass them as a separate bill immediately.

In the meantime, health officials at every level should explain clearly and repeatedly why some groups might be vaccinated before others: Some people are much more likely to die from the virus or much more likely to pass it on to others, and vaccinating them first ensures that as many people as possible are protected from the limited vaccine supplies. They can reinforce this important message by setting steep penalties for people who try to cut in line — for example, by bribing doctors or by forging their frontline credentials.

Health officials should make clear that it will be crucial to wear face masks and practice physical distancing for a good while still. They should also be clear about the difference between real and imagined risks. While some of the vaccines have been linked to side effects like high fever and nausea, none of them can give a person Covid-19. While they appear to be safe for adults of any race or ethnicity, they have not yet been tested in children, pregnant women or nursing mothers. It’s still unclear how long protection will last, and doctors don’t yet know if the vaccines will prevent people from contracting the coronavirus, or just keep them from developing the deadly disease that the virus causes, Covid-19. They are working to answer these questions now.

If health officials want to maintain public trust and maximize vaccine uptake in the meantime, they’ll have to be transparent about what’s known and what isn’t, and clear about how that changes as new data emerges. It will be difficult for state and local health departments to develop targeted messaging campaigns without sufficient resources, but health officials at every level can still strive for transparency in their public remarks.

The federal government has invested billions of taxpayer dollars in vaccines to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Some of that investment has already been squandered. By failing to check the spread of the virus these many months, America’s leaders have ensured that no vaccine — not even a 95 percent effective one — will quickly contain it. But if lawmakers, officials and the waiting public do what’s needed now, they might still turn things around and make the most of the significant opportunities that remain.





No.9 article:
Pandemic Closures Devastate Restaurant Industry’s Middle Class

A sous-chef’s search for job security shows how cooks, managers and servers at upscale dining establishments have been hit hard by the pandemic.

On the day in September when he was hired as a cook at Fulton Market Kitchen — a restaurant in Chicago featuring shrimp and grits and miso-glazed halibut — Jeff Danaher asked the chef about his plans for the winter.

“He was like, ‘I’m open four days a week, and I’m trying to go to seven,’” recalled Mr. Danaher, who had been out of work for months. “It was a huge relief.”

But five weeks later, indoor dining in the city came to a halt. Mr. Danaher, who made nearly $50,000 per year before the pandemic and had his pick of positions in recent years, was suddenly jobless again.

“After about the second or third week into Covid,” he said, “I got scared for my job security in a way that I never had before in 10 years of cooking.”

In sheer economic terms, few workers have stood more directly in the path of the pandemic than the roughly 10 million people employed by restaurants at the start of the year. The industry shed close to half those jobs in March and April, and was still down almost 1.5 million as of October.

The winter will likely bring another round of pain: In recent weeks, reservations have dropped substantially in cold-weather states like Illinois, New York and Pennsylvania, according to data from OpenTable.

The crisis has forced many of the industry’s working poor to choose between financial ruin and harrowing work conditions. But more so than many other professions, the pandemic has also devastated the industry’s middle class: the thousands of cooks, chefs and servers who can make between $35,000 and $85,000 per year in food hubs like Chicago.

In good times, new restaurants open weekly, and workers with sought-after skills or high-end experience often enjoy plenty of job options. But a wave of closures has hit pricier restaurants harder than fast food and other down-market establishments, which have an easier time shifting to takeout, and those workers have become increasingly desperate.

For Mr. Danaher, 29, the trouble started in early March, when he left his job as a sous-chef at a higher-end casual restaurant in Chicago over concerns about drug use and harassment among the wait staff.

He was optimistic about his prospects: During tours at nearly 20 restaurants, he had picked up a variety of in-demand skills, such as bread making,  pickling and charcuterie (preparing meat items like sausages and pâté). He could butcher a freshly killed pig. 

This time around, he quickly lined up interviews, but the jobs seemed to fizzle as the pandemic approached. On a Thursday in mid-March, Mr. Danaher staged — restaurant-speak for an unpaid tryout — at a restaurant called Good Fortune.

“It was supposed to be super-busy, but they had 10 covers on the books,” Mr. Danaher said, alluding to the sparse crowd.

Chris Tiba, Good Fortune’s sous-chef, said the position would have been Mr. Danaher’s if not for the looming industry apocalypse. “He did such a phenomenal job,” Mr. Tiba said. “He was super-focused, hungry for his craft.” (Good Fortune has gone out of business, and Mr. Tiba is collecting unemployment.)

The state suspended on-site dining four days after his tryout. Mr. Danaher tried to file for unemployment, but the website was overloaded and the phone lines were jammed.

His girlfriend, Alessandra Llanes-Diaz, also an out-of-work cook at the time, moved in so they could quarantine together. They drew down their bank accounts buying ingredients for meat sauce, which they planned to freeze, and stews.

“It was what we call staff meals,” Ms. Llanes-Diaz said. “A bunch of veggies and things in a pot.”

By mid-April, Mr. Danaher was inquiring at pizza joints and even a Dunkin’ Donuts, but got no takers. He scouted out grocery and retail stores. Toward the end of the month, he briefly took a contractor gig making syrups for a company that sold cocktail kits, but the work died down a few weeks later.

Around the same time, the industry was staggering back to life. In Chicago, the Michelin-starred Elske, known for its moderately priced tasting menu, began opening three days a week to offer takeout.

“Our first meal was Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and cucumber salad,” said David Posey, the chef who co-owns Elske with his wife. “We thought we’d go through that in a week. It was enough for one day.”

In Nashville, Tony Galzin, the co-owner and chef at Nicky’s, revved up his coal-fired oven and sold housemade pizzas and fresh pasta to go. In Washington, Cork Wine Bar, an early fixture in the city’s booming 14th Street corridor, did a brisk business in Seder boxes.

Later, as dining restrictions eased and government aid flowed, many restaurants found they could come close to breaking even while paying workers fairly. Instead of resuming traditional table-side service, Mr. Galzin asked customers to order from a counter. Several former waiters took on other jobs, and Mr. Galzin distributed tips evenly to all staff members, who earned between $16 and $20 per hour, more than many had pre-pandemic.

Elske limited its menu and served customers on a patio as well as inside near the windows. Alison Miller, the restaurant’s former assistant general manager who became a server this summer, said she took home at least $1,000 most weeks.

Still, the restaurants could rehire only a small fraction of their workers. Nicky’s eventually brought back just over half of the 34 people it once employed; Elske brought back about half of its 16. Diane Gross, a co-owner of Cork, had to lay off nearly two-thirds of her pre-pandemic team of 30.

Over all, full-service restaurants accounted for more than three times as many job losses as limited-service restaurants like fast food, according to the Labor Department.

Data compiled by ZipRecruiter show that job postings at high-end restaurants like Morton’s and Ruth’s Chris dropped nearly 45 percent from March to May, versus only about 20 percent for the likes of McDonald’s and Burger King.

By July, the enhanced unemployment benefits, which Mr. Danaher started receiving only in May, were about to expire, and his finances were looking grim. He came down with Covid the next month, though his symptoms were mild.

Once he recovered, he occasionally made money cooking for private dinner parties, but it was at best a down payment on his rent. He needed a full-time position, but felt his experience was pricing him out of the market.

“The guy next to me,” Mr. Danaher said of one tryout, “he was green — he was wearing, like, Nikes and jeans.” (Pros generally consider nonslip shoes a must.)

In late September, Mr. Danaher finally landed the job at Fulton Market Kitchen. “It was a good chef; they make all their sauces and pasta in-house,” he said. He started at $16 per hour. But with infection rates soaring, Illinois ended indoor dining in Chicago before the end of October.

The restaurant closed and canceled a series of Andy Warhol-themed dinners it had planned for Halloween weekend. “I understand why we have to shut down,” said Relu Stan, Fulton Market Kitchen’s co-owner. “What I don’t get is why it’s always such short notice.”

Mr. Stan laid off his staff rather than pivot to takeout, as he had initially done in the spring. “There’s no money in takeout and delivery,” he said. “Not for us. Our food doesn’t travel that well.”

Other restaurateurs, like Mr. Posey at Elske, were making similar calculations, pushing still more employees out of work. According to ZipRecruiter, job postings at many high-end restaurants fell in November.

Not long after, however, Mr. Danaher caught a break: A restaurant called Split-Rail asked if he could pick up two shifts per week. “He’s a BRILLIANT cook, one of the most employable people I’ve ever met,” the restaurant’s chef-owner, Zoe Schor, who had worked with Mr. Danaher years earlier, wrote in a text.

Concerned about safety, Ms. Schor had kept Split-Rail strictly takeout and delivery during the pandemic. Winter even seemed to bring a bit of hope: Her restaurant specializes in comfort food like fried chicken and matzo ball soup — the kind of food that sells well in cold weather.

Mr. Danaher, who just moved into a new apartment, has now been guaranteed four shifts per week through the end of the year. Beyond that, who can really say?

“I’m incredibly grateful,” he said. “It is enough, but it’s just enough.”





No.10 article:
Even in Defeat, Trump Tightens Grip on State G.O.P. Lawmakers

In Pennsylvania, the president’s false claims of a rigged vote may inflame the party base for years to come. One lawmaker said that refusing to back up his assertions would “get my house bombed.”

Last week, allies of President Trump accused Republican leaders in Pennsylvania of being “cowards” and “liars” and of letting America down.

Mr. Trump himself called top Republicans in the General Assembly in his crusade to twist the arms of officials in several states and reverse an election he lost. The Pennsylvania lawmakers told the president they had no power to convene a special session to address his grievances.

But they also rewarded his efforts: On Friday, the State House speaker and majority leader joined hard-right colleagues — whom they had earlier resisted — and called on Congress to reject Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s 81,000-vote victory in Pennsylvania.

The extraordinary intervention by the president, and the willingness of some top party leaders to abet his effort to subvert an election, demonstrates how Mr. Trump’s sway over elected Republicans is likely to endure after he leaves office and how his false claims of a “rigged” 2020 vote may inflame the party base for years to come.

Courts across the country have summarily thrown out Mr. Trump’s claims of a stolen election. But 64 Republicans in the General Assembly signed a letter last week urging Pennsylvania’s congressional delegation to reject the state’s Electoral College votes for Mr. Biden. 

Kim Ward, the Republican majority leader of the Pennsylvania Senate, said the president had called her to declare there was fraud in the voting. But she said she had not been shown the letter to Congress, which was pulled together hastily, before its release.

Asked if she would have signed it, she indicated that the Republican base expected party leaders to back up Mr. Trump’s claims — or to face its wrath.

“If I would say to you, ‘I don’t want to do it,’” she said about signing the letter, “I’d get my house bombed tonight.”

Pennsylvania is the third state in which Mr. Trump is known to have reached out to top elected Republicans to try to reverse the will of voters. He earlier summoned Michigan legislative leaders to the White House, and over the weekend he pressed Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia to call upon that state’s legislature to reverse the election. 

Neither the Michigan leaders nor Mr. Kemp tried to change the outcomes in their states, but they did take steps that would be pleasing to Mr. Trump. In Michigan, House and Senate Oversight committees controlled by Republicans held hearings last week to look at absentee vote counting, and Mr. Kemp said he would favor an audit of signatures on votes in Georgia. 

A major issue facing Republicans everywhere, including those in Pennsylvania — where open seats for governor and the U.S. Senate are on the ballot in 2022 — is whether the party will put forward Trump-aligned candidates in future races. The president lost Pennsylvania, but Republicans made down-ballot gains in two statewide races and picked up seats in the legislature.

“Those who are continuing to beat on this drum that the election was rigged are trying to appease Trump’s base and get their support early on,” said State Representative Ryan Bizzarro, a member of the Democratic leadership.

Mr. Bizzarro said it would be a gift to Democrats if the Republican nominees for governor or Senate who emerge from primaries are remembered for echoing Mr. Trump’s baseless claims of mass fraud from mail-in ballots and his bitter-end resistance to conceding a loss.

“Forget all the Democrats who voted by mail — look at all the Republicans who voted by mail,” he said. “Are you saying their voice isn’t as important as the fringe who are blind to facts and the ways our Constitution clearly lays out elections?”

On Tuesday, the U.S. Supreme Court became the latest of dozens of tribunals to throw out a case brought by Trump allies, in this instance a Pennsylvania congressman and a losing congressional candidate. They had sought to invalidate the state’s 2.6 million mail-in votes, 77 percent of which were cast for Mr. Biden.

Republicans argued that a 2019 state law authorizing no-excuse mail voting was unconstitutional, although it passed the Republican-led legislature and was signed by Gov. Tom Wolf, a Democrat.

Earlier, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled against the same plaintiffs, one of whom was Sean Parnell, a former Army Ranger and a favorite of Mr. Trump’s who occasionally appears on Fox News. He lost his race for Congress to Representative Conor Lamb but has been mentioned as a potential statewide candidate in 2022.

A Republican strategist in Pennsylvania, Charlie Gerow, expressed doubts that the trench fighting by party members over the legitimacy of the election would cast a stigma over Republicans in the midterm elections. “There will be so many candidates for statewide office that what happens in December 2020 will have very little bearing, in my judgment, on what happens in 2022,” he said.

Nearly every state has certified the results of its election, and Mr. Biden has secured the 270 electoral votes needed to become the next president when the Electoral College meets on Monday.

Nonetheless, the more than 60 Republicans in the Pennsylvania legislature — about half of the party’s total caucus — urged Congress to take one last stand for Mr. Trump and object to the state’s Biden electors.

For a challenge to an electoral slate to proceed requires the endorsement of one member of the House and one senator when Congress meets in joint session on Jan. 6 to accept the electoral votes. Both chambers would then meet separately to debate and vote on the objection. The Democratic-led House would almost certainly reject any challenge.

“I’d bet my last dollar that vote will fail,” said Representative Matt Cartwright, a Democratic member of the House delegation from Pennsylvania. “But what will be really interesting is to see which of the Republican members have the courage to ignore that request from Pennsylvania’s General Assembly.”

It is also unclear whether any senator will endorse the challenge. Pennsylvania’s top elected Republican, Senator Pat Toomey, said through his office that he would not support one. In an interview on Tuesday with The Philadelphia Inquirer, Mr. Toomey, one of only about two dozen Republicans in Congress who have openly acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory, said it was “completely unacceptable” for Mr. Trump to pressure state lawmakers to reverse election results.

In January 2017, an effort by a handful of Democrats in the House to challenge Mr. Trump’s electoral votes went down to defeat when no senator would join them. (Mr. Biden, presiding over the Senate as vice president, declared, “It is over.”)

The last time an electoral challenge in Congress resulted in an actual debate was in 2005, when Ohio’s slate of votes for President George W. Bush was challenged, though that challenge was unsuccessful after the House and Senate met to vote.

Mr. Toomey’s decision not to seek a third term in 2022 has accelerated the jockeying in both parties to succeed him. The profiles of several of the Republicans thought to be contemplating campaigns for the Senate or for governor have risen as they have acted as champions of Mr. Trump’s most outlandish assertions of a hijacked election.

State Senator Doug Mastriano organized a hearing in a hotel in Gettysburg last month, at which the president’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani aired false charges about the election, including an assertion that mail-in ballots in Philadelphia were “not inspected at all by any Republican.” The claims were debunked in real time on Twitter by a Republican member of the Philadelphia elections board.

Few people at the Gettysburg hearing wore masks, and Mr. Giuliani later tested positive for the coronavirus. Invited to the White House, Mr. Mastriano, a retired Army colonel said to be mulling a race for governor, reportedly learned there that he, too, was infected with the virus.

Last week, Republican leaders in the legislature at first pushed back on allies of the president who were pressuring the lawmakers to intervene and demanding that they name an alternate delegation to the Electoral College to vote for Mr. Trump.

In a joint memo, the Republican leaders said they had no authority to ignore the certified election results and appoint their own electors.

Trump allies denounced the leaders. Mr. Giuliani claimed in a tweet that they had “let down America,” and he called on “all of us Republicans to let them know what we think of them.”

A Giuliani ally, the former New York City police commissioner Bernard Kerik, called the Pennsylvania leadership team’s actions “profiles in cowardice” and labeled the leaders “liars” and “traitors.” He was retweeted by Jenna Ellis, a member of Mr. Trump’s legal team.

Soon after, the two top Republicans in the Pennsylvania House — Bryan Cutler, the speaker, and Kerry Benninghoff, the majority leader — joined backbenchers in calling for Congress to block the Biden electors. Their letter justifying the challenge included claims of election violations that have been repeatedly rejected by state and federal courts. Mr. Trump twice called Mr. Cutler in recent days.

Through a spokesman, Mr. Cutler declined a request for an interview. The spokesman, Michael Straub, said the president “did not directly pressure Cutler to overturn the results or seat rival electors.” The House speaker told the president that the General Assembly was not in session and only the governor could call it back.

Mr. Cutler, 45, was chosen as speaker in June. To keep his job, he faces an election in the full House in January. He is under pressure to hold his caucus together, including its far-right members. He did not initiate the letter to Congress, according to his spokesman.

“That letter had been planned separately by rank-and-file members, and Cutler signed it,” Mr. Straub said.





No.11 article:
Childhood Without Other Children: A Generation Is Raised in Quarantine

Covid-19 has meant the youngest children can’t go to birthday parties or play dates. Parents are keeping them out of day care. What is the long-term effect of the pandemic on our next generation?

Alice McGraw, 2 years old, was walking with her parents in Lake Tahoe this summer when another family appeared, heading in their direction. The little girl stopped.

“Uh-oh,” she said and pointed: “People.”

She has learned, her mother said, to keep the proper social distance to avoid risk of infection from the coronavirus. In this and other ways, she’s part of a generation living in a particular new type of bubble — one without other children. They are the Toddlers of Covid-19.

Gone for her and many peers are the play dates, music classes, birthday parties, the serendipity of the sandbox or the side-by-side flyby on adjacent swing sets. Many families skipped day care enrollment in the fall, and others have withdrawn amid the new surge in coronavirus cases.

With months of winter isolation looming, parents are growing increasingly worried about the developmental effects of the ongoing social deprivation on their very young children.

“People are trying to weigh pros and cons of what’s worse: putting your child at risk for Covid or at risk for severe social hindrance,” said Suzanne Gendelman, whose daughter, Mila, 14 months old, regularly spent rug time with Alice McGraw before the pandemic. 

“My daughter has seen more giraffes at the zoo more than she’s seen other kids,” Ms. Gendelman said.

It is too early for published research about the effects of the pandemic lockdowns on very young children, but childhood development specialists say that most children will likely be OK because their most important relationships at this age are with parents.

Still, a growing number of studies highlight the value of social interaction to brain development. Research shows that neural networks influencing language development and broader cognitive ability get built through verbal and physical give-and-take — from the sharing of a ball to exchanges of sounds and simple phrases.

These interactions build “structure and connectivity in the brain,” said Kathryn Hirsh-Pasek, director of the Infant Language Laboratory at Temple University and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “They seem to be brain feed.”

In infants and toddlers, these essential interactions are known as “serve-and-return,” and rely on seamless exchanges of guttural sounds or simple words.

Dr. Hirsh-Pasek and others say that technology presents both opportunity and risk during the pandemic. On one hand, it allows children to engage in virtual play by Zoom or FaceTime with grandparents, family friends or other children. But it can also distract parents who are constantly checking their phones to the point that the device interrupts the immediacy and effectiveness of conversational duet — a concept known as “technoference.”

John Hagen, professor emeritus of psychology at the University of Michigan, said he would be more concerned about the effect of lockdowns on young children, “if this were to go on years and not months.”

“I just think we’re not dealing with any kinds of things causing permanent or long-term difficulties,” he said.

Dr. Hirsh-Pasek characterized the current environment as a kind of “social hurricane” with two major risks: Infants and toddlers don’t get to interact with one another and, at the same time, they pick up signals from their parents that other people might be a danger.

“We’re not meant to be stopped from seeing the other kids who are walking down the street,” she said.

Just that kind of thing happened to Casher O’Connor, 14 months, whose family recently moved to Portland, Ore., from San Francisco. Several months before the move, the toddler was on a walk with his mother when he saw a little boy nearby.

“Casher walked up to the two-year-old, and the mom stiff-armed Cash not to get any closer,” said Elliott O’Connor, Casher’s mother.

“I understand,” she added, “but it was still heartbreaking.”

Portland has proved a little less prohibitive place for childhood interaction in part because there is more space than in the dense neighborhoods of San Francisco, and so children can be in the same vicinity without the parents feeling they are at risk of infecting one another.

“It’s amazing to have him stare at another kid,” Ms. O’Connor said.

“Seeing your kid playing on a playground with themselves is just sad,” she added. “What is this going to be doing to our kids?”

The rise of small neighborhood pods or of two or three families joining together in shared bubbles has helped to offset some parents’ worries. But new tough rules in some states, like California, have disrupted those efforts because playgrounds have been closed in the latest Covid surge and households have been warned against socializing outside their own families.

Plus, the pods only worked when everyone agreed to obey the same rules and so some families simply chose to go it alone.

That’s the case of Erinn and Craig Sheppard, parents of a 15-month-old, Rhys, who live in Santa Monica, Calif. They are particularly careful because they live near the little boy’s grandmother, who is in her 80s. Ms. Sheppard said Rhys has played with “zero” children since the pandemic started.

“We get to the park, we Clorox the swing and he gets in and he has a great time and loves being outside and he points at other kids and other parents like a toddler would,” she said. But they don’t engage.

One night, Rhys was being carried to bed when he started waving. Ms. Sheppard realized that he was looking at the wall calendar which has babies on it. It happens regularly now. “He waves to the babies on the wall calendar,” Ms. Sheppard said.

Experts in child development said it would be useful to start researching this generation of children to learn more about the effects of relative isolation. There is a distant precedent: Research was published in 1974 that tracked children who lived through a different world-shaking moment, the Great Depression. The study offers reason for hope.

“To an unexpected degree, the study of the children of the Great Depression followed a trajectory of resilience into the middle years of life,” wrote Glen Elder, the author of that research.

Brenda Volling, a psychology professor at the University of Michigan and an expert in social and emotional development, said one takeaway is that Depression-era children who fared best came from families who overcame the economic fallout more readily and who, as a result, were less hostile, angry and depressed.

To that end, what infants, toddlers and other children growing up in the Covid era need most now is stable, nurturing and loving interaction with their parents, Dr. Volling said.

“These children are not lacking in social interaction,” she said, noting that they are getting “the most important” interaction from their parents.

A complication may involve how the isolation felt by parents causes them to be less connected to their children.

“They are trying to manage work and family in the same environment,” Dr. Volling said. The problems cascade, she added, when parents grow “hostile or depressed and can’t respond to their kids, and get irritable and snap.”

“That’s always worse than missing a play date.”





No.12 article:
You Should Have Listened, New York Tells Big Oil

The comptroller’s threat to pull billions from fossil fuel investments is a big victory for climate activists.

New York State’s comptroller, Thomas DiNapoli, announced on Wednesday that the state would begin divesting its $226 billion employee pension fund from gas and oil companies if they can’t come up with a legitimate business plan within four years that is aligned with the goals of the Paris climate accord. Those investments have historically added up to roughly $12 billion.

The entire portfolio will be decarbonized over the next two decades. “Achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 will put the fund in a strong position for the future mapped out in the Paris Agreement,” he said in a statement.

It’s a huge win, obviously, for the activists who have fought for eight years to get Albany to divest from fossil fuel companies and for the global divestment campaign. Endowments and portfolios worth more than than $14 trillion have joined the fight. This new move is the largest by a pension fund in the United States, edging the New York City pension funds under Comptroller Scott Stringer, who announced in 2018 that the fund would seek to divest $5 billion in fossil fuel investments from its nearly $200 billion pension fund over five years.

But it also represents something else: capitulations that taken together suggest that the once-dominant fossil fuel industry has reached a low in financial and political power.

The first capitulation, by investors, is to the understanding that most of Big Oil simply won’t be a serious partner for change. Mr. DiNapoli had long been an advocate of engagement with the fossil fuel companies, arguing that if big shareholders expressed their concerns, those companies would change course. This, of course, should be how the world works: He was correctly warning the companies that their strategy endangered not only the planet but also their businesses, and they should have listened.

But time and again, they let him down. In December of 2017, for instance, after prodding from Mr. DiNapoli, Exxon Mobil agreed to “analyze how worldwide efforts to adopt the Paris Agreement goals for reducing global warming might impact its business,” he said in a statement at the time. That could have been a turning point. But two months later Exxon published the absurd results of that analysis: The Paris Agreement would have no effect on its business, and it could pump all its reserves of oil and gas. (As it happens, leaked documents have since made it clear that Exxon was planning to significantly increase its emissions by ramping up production.)

Divestment remains a “last resort,” Mr. DiNapoli said in his statement. But he made clear that it was “an investment tool we can apply to companies that consistently put our investment’s long-term value at risk.”

The oil industry has long wanted to cast itself as a responsible partner for progress on climate change, as opposed to “unrealistic” divestment activists. The Independent Petroleum Association of America even set up an anti-divestment website to pressure decision makers like Mr. DiNapoli not to pull the money they oversee out of fossil fuel companies.

Mr. DiNapoli deserves credit for standing up to the industry’s still-considerable power, even if it comes late in the game. And he is now positioned to join Mr. Stringer as one of the strongest voices for climate action in the financial sector. He can speak with the unquestioned credibility of someone who tried to work collaboratively.

It’s an argument that other investors are ready to hear, not just because of the climate threat, but also because the fossil fuel industry has been the worst-performing sector of the American economy for many years now.

Its problems are twofold: It faces a sprawling resistance movement, rooted in the undeniable fact that its products are wrecking the planet’s climate system. And in wind and sun, it faces formidable technological competitors who can provide the same service, just cleaner and cheaper.

These realities will destroy the coal, gas and oil barons; the only question is, how fast. Big Oil’s strategy at this point is delay, but that course gets harder and harder, especially as the Trump administration exits and with it the shield of protection the industry has enjoyed.

There are signs that this second capitulation — the surrender of the oil companies to the reality of their situation — has begun.

One of the so-called supermajors, BP PLC, announced this summer that it would cut its oil and gas production by 40 percent over the decade and significantly increase its investments in renewable energy. Divestment campaigners can be excused for casting a jaundiced eye on the news — BP announced in 2000 that it was going “Beyond Petroleum,” a crusade it soon abandoned. But this time at least they have the rhetoric right:

“This coming decade,” the company’s C.E.O. said in a statement, “is critical for the world in the fight against climate change, and to drive the necessary change in global energy systems will require action from everyone.”

Even Exxon has been humbled to the point where a kind of silent capitulation seems to be starting. As recently as 2013 it was the biggest company on the planet; by this autumn it wasn’t even the biggest energy company, having been briefly surpassed in market capitalization by NextEra Energy, a Florida-based renewables provider.

Last week Exxon made clear its new status, disclosing it would slash its exploration and capital expenditure budget from a planned $30 billion to $35 billion next year to barely half that and write off up to $20 billion in natural gas assets that it now acknowledges it will never pump.

This fall from grace for oil and gas companies can’t come fast enough — it recalls the collapsing fortunes of the coal industry over the past decade, a slide that Mr. DiNapoli helped to exacerbate by divesting the New York State pension fund from coal this past summer.

Not only does the decline of Big Oil mean less carbon in the long run; it also means less political influence in the short run and hence less power to slow down the steps necessary for a transition to carbon-free energy. Big Oil’s influence on the Republican Party remains large, but President-elect Joe Biden doesn’t face the same hulking beast his predecessors have had to work around. If Mr. DiNapoli can stand up to these forces, it augurs well for what the new administration may accomplish.

Last month set the global mark for the hottest November ever recorded, and it seems increasingly certain that despite a growing La Niña cooling in the Pacific, 2020 will tie or break the record for the hottest year.

The planet is heating rapidly, but — as the news from Albany makes clear — so is the movement to do something about it.





No.13 article:
Dr. Michael Davidson, Who Studied Infectious Disease, Dies at 77

He told a friend that he would have relished the chance to help end the coronavirus pandemic had he still been active in the field. The virus claimed him instead.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Dr. Michael Davidson, an epidemiologist who pursued a career focused on infectious disease in part because of the death of his grandparents during the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic, died on Nov. 8 in Anchorage. He was 77.

His death, of Covid-19 at Providence Hospital, was confirmed by Dr. James Sprott, a close friend.

Dr. Davidson’s maternal grandparents died of the 1918 flu within a week of each other, orphaning their five children. That tragic family history affected Dr. Davidson deeply.

A week before he tested positive for the coronavirus, he told a longtime friend, Dr. John Finley, that he would have relished the chance to be part of the effort to end the pandemic. But he had already retired, shortly after a biking accident in 2003 left him a quadriplegic.

Dr. Davidson worked with the U.S. Public Health Service, the Alaska Native Medical Center and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Anchorage.

He conducted pivotal studies on cardiovascular health and infectious diseases among Native Alaskans. He also studied pneumonia, H.I.V. and the human papillomavirus, or H.P.V., and helped confirm that H.P.V. can trigger cervical cancer. Throughout his career he traveled to remote parts of the world to further his research and provide medical training.

He was a visiting fellow in 1993 at the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research, focusing on pneumonia. In the 1980s, he traveled to Peshawar, Pakistan, to create a paramedic training program for Afghan refugees.

An avid outdoorsman who loved to cook, Dr. Davidson ran marathons, hiked in the desert, cross-country skied in the backcountry between remote Alaskan villages, and rafted white-water rivers.

The biking accident occurred shortly after he had relocated to New Jersey for a new job heading up an H.I.V./AIDS research team for Roche Pharmaceuticals.

“He had two real loves in life: the outdoors and cooking,” Dr. Sprott said in an interview. Dr. Davidson honed his culinary skills by trying every recipe in the 24-volume “Time-Life Foods of the World” cookbook collection.

For the past 10 years, he had required round-the-clock home care. “He drove his aides crazy, telling them how to cook, but they could never do it like he did,” Dr. Sprott said. A lover of jazz and the blues, Dr. Davidson also played the saxophone.

Michael Davidson was born on April 8, 1943, in Greensburg, Pa., outside Pittsburgh, to Peter and Selma Davidson. His parents owned a men’s clothing store in Greensburg and later in Meadville, in northwest Pennsylvania, where Dr. Davidson grew up. His older sister, Paula, a nurse, died at a young age.

He earned a degree in biology in 1965 at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., and received his medical degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in 1969. He spent a summer while in medical school on a Navajo reservation studying the high prevalence of gallstones among the people there, Dr. Thomas Welty, a friend and medical school classmate, said. The experience inspired Dr. Davidson to work with Indigenous people in Alaska.

Dr. Davidson completed his internal medicine training at George Washington and Georgetown Universities and had a fellowship in infectious disease at the University of New Mexico, where he later taught while running a private practice in internal medicine. He earned a master’s degree in public health in 1983 and a doctorate in clinical epidemiology from Johns Hopkins University in 1999. He also taught as part of the biomedical program at the University of Alaska.

Dr. Davidson leaves no immediate survivors.





No.14 article:
Catch These 15 Titles Before They Leave Netflix in December

The year’s end means a ton of licenses are expiring. Stream these movies and bingeable TV series while you can.

The end of the year means the end of licensing contracts for the streaming services, so this month’s Netflix offload is a bit of a blood bath — including not only the customary assortment of beloved movies for young and old, but also a handful of the streamer’s most binge-able and rewatchable TV series. (Dates reflect the final day of a title’s availability.)

The 2012 Disney animated hit “Wreck-It Ralph” was an enjoyable, pop culture-savvy comic adventure, exploring and satirizing the world of video games (arcade and otherwise) through the story of a game villain (voiced by John C. Reilly), Ralph, who longs to be a hero. It would also seem a difficult concept to continue without veering into tiresome duplication. Yet this 2018 follow-up finds a clever workaround, parachuting Ralph into the internet — and all the algorithms, virality and toxicity that entails. Reilly again makes a sympathetic protagonist, and Sarah Silverman is as delightful as ever as his sidekick and occasional conscience.Stream it here.

This Aaron Sorkin political drama, which ran from 1999 to 2006, has been a Netflix mainstay for years, popular among both nostalgic fans and new viewers attracted to its wish-fulfillment fantasy of functioning, humanitarian governance. Warner Bros., which produced the series, now has its own streaming service, so ‘The West Wing’ will shift to HBO Max (which recently aired a reunion special) at Christmas. It remains potent television comfort food, mixing quick-witted, fast-talking dialogue comedy and warmhearted character drama, loaded to the gills with quotable lines and charismatic performers.Stream it here.

If you’re feeling a bit of superhero movie fatigue, even in this period of relative scarcity, then the idea of yet another cinematic Spider-Man may sound less than appealing. But this 2018 adventure (which won the Oscar for best animated feature) is both a winkingly self-aware commentary and a thrilling story, focusing on the teenager Miles Morales’s discovery not only of his own spider-powers but also of additional Spider-men (and women) from other dimensions. The multi-verse device opens up richly comic possibilities (highlights include a John Mulaney-voiced pig hero, “Spider-Ham,” and a hard-boiled “Spider-Man Noir,” played by Nicolas Cage), without short-circuiting the genuine emotion and heroism.Stream it here.

This Showtime original series, which aired from 2006 to 2013 (a limited series reboot is planned for next year), tested the boundaries of the prestige TV antihero, focusing on a charismatic serial killer. Michael C. Hall (previously of “Six Feet Under”) stars as a police forensic technician who kills the killers that get away, giving the series a flavor of vigilante justice that balances the copious bloodshed. It’s a tricky mixture of dark comedy and gory mystery that doesn’t always come together (particularly toward the end), but at its best — namely, the John Lithgow arc of Season 4 — “Dexter” is a work of wild genius.Stream it here.

Released in 2002, this hit comedy from the director Tim Story spawned two sequels, a spinoff and a television adaptation, but this inaugural entry remains the series’s high point. Ice Cube stars as the proprietor of a Chicago barber shop who sells the business in a fit of frustration and spends the rest of the film’s long, eventful day trying to get it back. But that plot is just a clothesline for the scenes at the heart of the picture, which dramatize the neighborhood barbershop as a hangout spot for jokes, lies and pointed opinions, many of them postulated by the old-timer Eddie (a scene-stealing Cedric the Entertainer).Stream it here.

The director Spike Jonze, who made his name with stylish and freewheeling music videos for the likes of the Beastie Boys and Weezer, made his feature directorial debut with this brain-busting surrealist comedy from the wild mind of the screenwriter Charlie Kaufman (also a first-timer). John Cusack stars as a frustrated puppeteer whose job as a filing clerk leads him to discover a portal into the mind of the actor John Malkovich (who appears, gamely, as himself). A lesser film would have settled on that high concept and ridden it out; Kaufman and Jonze burrow deeper into the implications and possibilities of the nutty narrative, resulting in one of the most imaginatively off-kilter films of its time.Stream it here.

This 2009 adaptation of the memoir by Lynn Barber was the breakthrough film for Carey Mulligan, who stars as a whip-smart but socially awkward 16-year-old who becomes the unlikely object of the affections of a much older man (played, with a delicate mixture of warmth and sleaze, by Peter Sarsgaard). The inappropriateness of the age gap is the film’s subject but not its focus; the intelligent screenplay by the novelist Nick Hornby and sensitive direction by Lone Scherfig are nuanced enough to acknowledge the thrill offered by such a relationship en route to the inevitable heartbreaks and disappointments. The stars sell us on that connection and its slow fraying; the supporting cast, including Alfred Molina, Emma Thompson, Olivia Williams, Rosamund Pike and Dominic Cooper, is first-rate.Stream it here.

Five years after “Malkovich,” Kaufman and the director Michel Gondry collaborated on another indie classic, again transforming a cleverly funny concept — a doctor who specializes in hyper-targeted erasure of painful romantic memories — into an evocative and heart-wrenching meditation on love and loss. Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet (both doing career-best work) are the estranged lovers in question, who wonder a bit too late if their relationship might be worth saving. Kaufman’s melancholy script is beautifully brought to life by Gondry, whose cockeyed visual style is a good match for his screenwriter’s wary worldview.Stream it here.

The Coen Brothers found their first big Oscar success — seven nominations and two wins — with this wildly funny and occasionally disturbing crime story, in which a car salesman (a wonderfully wormy William H. Macy) plots the kidnapping of his own wife in order to extract a handsome ransom from his wealthy father-in-law. The plan goes to pieces, thanks in no small part to a sharp-as-a-tack small-town police chief, played to plucky perfection by Frances McDormand (who won the first of her two Oscars for best actress).

Stream it here.

Salma Hayek spent the better part of a decade attempting to play the famed Mexican painter Frida Kahlo in a big-screen biopic, and it’s not hard to see why: It’s an actor’s dream, the opportunity to play a real-life icon, through all of her trials and triumphs. And Hayek is more than up to the task, revealing the breadth and depth of her talent. Alfred Molina is a marvelous shambles as her longtime partner and fellow artist Diego Rivera, while Ashley Judd, Antonio Banderas, Edward Norton, Geoffrey Rush and Diego Luna impress, even in the briefest of supporting roles.Stream it here.

As with “The West Wing,” another longtime Netflix favorite moves to a new, proprietary service (Peacock, in this case) in an attempt to lure subscribers. And the longstanding appeal of this one is understandable. At first a rather ungainly and awkward adaptation of Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant’s British cringe-comedy, the American “Office” found its own voice, its own style and its own cast of distinctive and pleasurable personalities. By Season 3, it had become the best kind of sitcom: a “Cheers”-style character-driven comedy with just enough fleeting moments of genuine poignancy and heart.Stream it here.

In June of 1982, Steven Spielberg offered two wildly contrasting notions of suburban America: the sweet surrogate-family alien tale “E.T.” (which he directed) and “Poltergeist’ (which he co-wrote and produced), a nightmare vision of a home possessed and a family ripped apart. The optimistic one broke box office records, but the haunted one has lingered just as long, full of searing imagery (hello, clown attack) and oft-quoted dialogue (“They’re here”). But it’s also a model of humanistic horror; the director Tobe Hooper coaxes grounded, naturalistic performances out of his cast (particularly the stars JoBeth Williams and Craig T. Nelson), well aware that the more believable this family is, the more harrowing their ordeal will seem.Stream it here.

Jane Austen adaptations aren’t terribly hard to come by these days, but the filmmaker Joe Wright (making his feature directorial debut) rendered this 2005 adaptation of Austen’s classic novel into something new and noteworthy. He takes an earthy, borderline erotic approach to the material, eschewing the starchiness and formality of many a period drama to focus on the timeless quality of its attractions and frustrations. And he gets a big boost in the endeavor from its stars Keira Knightley and Matthew MacFayden, who tune in to the picture’s specific sensuality with gusto.Stream it here.

Video games were still a new sensation, and the notion of online interaction seemed like science fiction, when this tense action thriller hit theaters in 1983. Now, in many ways, it plays like a dire warning of things to come. Matthew Broderick (at his charismatically smarmy best) is a high school computer whiz who uses his chunky PC and primitive modem to dial in to what he thinks is a video game company — unaware that he has instead dialed into the U.S. military’s supercomputer and begun a nuclear war simulation. The screenplay (by the future “Sneakers” writers Lawrence Lasker and Walter F. Parkes) is smart and snappy while the director John Badham (“Saturday Night Fever”) orchestrates an effective mix of high-stakes drama and low-key comedy.Stream it here.

It’s always a bit of a bummer when a great movie leaves Netflix, but this departure will probably warm the hearts of a few folks at HBO Max, whose recent adaptation of the titular Roald Dahl children’s novel falls well short of this 1990 version. Known mostly for such decidedly adult fare as “Don’t Look Now,” the director Nicolas Roeg seems to have a great time exploring the grisly darkness of Dahl’s story of a curious young man who discovers a coven of child-eating witches. Ace performances abound, but the standout is from Anjelica Huston, who turns in one of her most deliciously scenery-devouring turns as the Grand High Witch.Stream it here.

Also leaving Netflix in December: “Ip Man 3” (Dec. 17); “The Little Hours” (Dec. 22); “Lawless” (Dec. 28); “Hell on Wheels” Seasons 1-5, “Ip Man,” “Ip Man 2,” “Nurse Jackie” Seasons 1-7 (Dec. 30); “Airplane!,” “Anna Karenina,” “Baby Mama,” “Back to the Future,” “Back to the Future Part II,” “Back to the Future Part III,” “Cape Fear,” “Casper,” “Definitely, Maybe,” “Gossip Girl” Seasons 1-6, “Her,” “The Inbetweeners” Seasons 1-3, “Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,” “Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,” “Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark,” “The Interview,” “Lemony Snicket’s a Series of Unfortunate Events,” “The Notebook,” “Session 9,” “Superman Returns,” “The Town,” “Troy” (Dec. 31).





No.15 article:
The Hall of Fame Kept Dick Allen Waiting. He Ran Out of Time.

The pandemic delayed a Golden Days committee vote that could have finally put Allen, who died on Monday, in Cooperstown.

They are some of the most hallowed names in baseball history, 10 of the most dominant offensive forces of the fully integrated major leagues, inner-circle Hall of Famers who slugged their way through an era better known for pitching:

Henry Aaron, Willie McCovey, Frank Robinson, Willie Stargell, Roberto Clemente, Willie Mays, Harmon Killebrew, Carl Yastrzemski, Billy Williams, Reggie Jackson.

From 1964 through 1974, those were 10 of the top 11 hitters in the major leagues in on-base plus slugging percentage, with a minimum of 1,000 games. The unlisted name is Dick Allen. He ranked second in O.P.S. for that era at .940, just one percentage point behind Aaron.

Allen died on Monday, at 78 years old, in his hometown, Wampum, Pa. With better health and no coronavirus pandemic, he might have instead spent the day at baseball’s winter meetings, reveling in his status as a newly elected member of the Hall of Fame. The Golden Days committee would have considered his candidacy on Sunday, but the vote was canceled, as were the meetings, because the group could not gather in person.

Six years ago, the last time Allen appeared on that ballot, he fell one vote short, collecting 11 of 16 votes from the executives, historians and Hall of Famers on the committee. The Philadelphia Phillies’ owner, John Middleton, got tired of waiting to acknowledge one of his childhood heroes and erased his team’s policy limiting number retirements to players recognized in Cooperstown. The Phillies retired Allen’s No. 15 at a ceremony last summer.

It was overdue recognition for the first Black star from the last National League franchise to integrate, but Allen had long since made peace with Philadelphia. In his first tenure with the Phillies, from 1963 through 1969, he grew so weary of the fans that he scratched “BOO” in the dirt at Connie Mack Stadium and wore a helmet in the field. When he returned in the mid-70s, at Veterans Stadium, he became an elder statesman on the first Phillies playoff team in a generation, a mentor for younger stars like Mike Schmidt, Greg Luzinski and Larry Bowa.

“We had read all the stuff about how he wasn’t a good guy, but we never saw any of that,” Bowa said Monday in a statement released by the team. “Dick was a great teammate and a great tutor for us. He couldn’t have been more open with us as young players and was actually the complete opposite of everything we had read.”

Here’s what they might have read, from a Sporting News editorial following Allen’s trade to Philadelphia from Atlanta in May 1975 which came after he refused to play for the Braves:

And so on. You get the idea. Allen had a brutal image in the news media, and baseball writers would reject him 14 times on their ballot, never giving Allen even 20 percent of their support. Surely some of their opinions were colored by bias — but maybe not as much as it seems.

Hall of Fame voters often struggle to evaluate players like Allen who did not compile gaudy counting statistics. Consider those 10 Hall of Famers listed above. All but Stargell and Williams have at least 3,000 hits or 500 homers. Stargell was a one-team guy, a beloved leader who won two World Series for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Williams played 16 of his 18 years for one team, the Chicago Cubs, and came close to the benchmarks, with 2,711 hits and 426 homers. Williams needed six tries for election.

Allen had 351 homers and 1,848 hits. He never played in the World Series and was traded five times in a six-year stretch. He won Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player awards with a .292 career batting average. But other rate statistics, like on-base and slugging percentage, were not especially valued in Allen’s era. Totals mattered most.

There are exceptions, like Ralph Kiner, who had 369 homers, never played in the World Series and did make the Hall of Fame. But it took 15 tries, an obvious and compelling accomplishment — Kiner led the N.L. in homers in each of his first seven seasons — and a postcareer spotlight in the Mets broadcast booth to get him in.

Allen has vocal advocates like Schmidt, the greatest third baseman in history, and a former Phillies groundskeeper, Mark (Frog) Carfagno, who has passionately promoted Allen’s cause for years. The controversies of his past have faded, and ultimately, it seems, Allen’s absence from Cooperstown has mostly to do with an inconsistent application of greatness.

If a pitcher dominates for a 10-year stretch, like Roy Halladay or Pedro Martinez, he usually gets in easily. But if a pitcher is a tick below that level over 10 years, like Ron Guidry, or has a comparable peak that lasted only seven years, like Johan Santana, he’s an afterthought on the ballot.

How long must a hitter excel? Apparently, longer than 10 or 11 years. More recent sluggers like Albert Belle and Lance Berkman had comparable stat lines to Allen’s: fewer than 2,000 hits, between 350 and 399 homers, and a career average in the .290s. Neither lasted even three years on the ballot.

(As an aside, their relationships with voters hardly mattered — Belle’s was stormy, Berkman’s was warm. Several strong candidates in recent years were also dropped within two ballots despite being extremely cooperative with the news media, like David Cone, Carlos Delgado, Orel Hershiser and Bernie Williams. All deserved better.)

Maybe Allen, Belle and Berkman needed more compelling narratives. Maybe they scored too low on the useful-but-mystifying Wins Above Replacement metric. Maybe they needed more memorable moments, though Berkman had a fairly big one: his two-out, two-strike single off Texas’ Scott Feldman that saved St. Louis from elimination in Game 6 of the 2011 World Series.

Really, what they need is another chance, another group of voters, another context. That is what Allen should have had on Sunday, one more reckoning of a powerful legacy. When his day finally comes — and it will — it will be too late.





No.16 article:
Planned Execution Stirs Debate Over Punishment for Young Offenders

Brandon Bernard was 18 when he took part in the grisly murders of two youth ministers. He is scheduled to be put to death on Thursday despite a drive among his supporters for clemency.

WASHINGTON — Brandon Bernard, then 18, joined a haphazard robbery plot in June 1999 that resulted in two grisly murders, a jury found in his federal trial.

Several of his accomplices, who were ages 15 to 17, were ineligible for the federal death penalty and received prison sentences for their roles. But another participant in the kidnapping and murder case, who was 19 at the time, was executed in September, and on Thursday the Justice Department plans to execute Mr. Bernard, now 40.

The disparate sentences for the teenagers in the case, determined in part by age differences of months or a few years, have put new focus on the distinction between adults and juveniles when it comes to sentencing and what critics of the death penalty see as its arbitrary application.

The execution of the man who shot the victims, Christopher Vialva, was one of eight since the Trump administration ended a nearly two-decade moratorium and resumed carrying out the federal death penalty in July. Mr. Bernard’s defense team started an online campaign to commute his sentence, and supporters have sent tens of thousands of letters to President Trump, advocating his clemency, his lawyer said.

Among his supporters is Kim Kardashian West, who has been instrumental in raising clemency issues with Mr. Trump and has tried to rally public support for Mr. Bernard on Twitter. Senators Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, also called for Mr. Trump to commute Mr. Bernard’s sentence.

The Federal Death Penalty Act, the 1994 legislation that expanded the crimes eligible for the federal death penalty, stipulated that no one under the age of 18 at the time of the offense may be sentenced to death.

The Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that the execution of those under 18 at the time of their crimes constituted a “cruel and unusual” punishment prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. And several years later, the court found that a mandatory life sentence without the possibility of parole was also unconstitutional for those under the age of 18 at the time of their crimes.

“The essence of law is to impose discrete categories on life’s continuum,” said Robert Blecker, a professor emeritus at New York Law School.

There may be no meaningful difference between someone who is nearly 18 and someone who is 18, Mr. Blecker said, but one may be eligible for the death penalty and one may not. “If you can’t tolerate that,” he said, “you can’t tolerate law.”

The designation of 18 as the age threshold that largely defines adulthood in the United States has become the subject of scrutiny. Research has found that those in their late teens and early 20s lack complete brain maturity. In the landmark Supreme Court case that ruled juvenile death penalty cases were unconstitutional, the majority — acknowledging the potential arbitrariness of an 18-year-old lower limit — maintained that “a line must be drawn.”

Since Mr. Bernard’s sentencing 20 years ago, states have begun to reconsider who they define as juveniles, said Lael Chester, the director of the Emerging Adult Justice Project at Columbia University’s Justice Lab. Vermont, for one, has moved to include both 18-year-olds and 19-year-olds in its juvenile jurisdiction by July 2022, except those charged with serious violent felonies.

Rob Owen, a lawyer for Mr. Bernard, argued that his client’s brain was not yet fully developed at the time of the murders. He added that Mr. Bernard’s case was also marred by bias against young Black people, who he said were often treated as if they were older.

“Brandon in a sense was sentenced under a legal regime that did not give due consideration to his youthfulness,” he said.

The crimes for which Mr. Bernard was convicted grew out of a plan to abduct and rob a victim using an A.T.M. card, according to court documents.

The group split up before Mr. Vialva and two of his accomplices carjacked the victims, Todd and Stacie Bagley, youth ministers who were visiting Texas from Iowa. Mr. Bernard and Terry Brown, then 17, did not participate in the carjacking. At points during that day they went to a laundromat and placed applications at Winn-Dixie because their parents wanted them to find jobs, the Justice Department said in a court filing.

Mr. Vialva, portrayed in court proceedings as the ringmaster, insisted that the group needed to kill the Bagleys. Four members of the group, including Mr. Bernard, then got together and drove the victims to a remote location on the Fort Hood military reservation. Mr. Bernard and Mr. Brown poured lighter fluid on the car. Mr. Vialva shot the victims with Mr. Bernard’s handgun, killing Mr. Bagley and leaving Ms. Bagley unconscious. Mr. Bernard set fire to the car.

During the group’s attempted escape in another car, they slid off the road into a muddy ditch. There, the four were arrested. Because the murders took place on a military reservation, it was deemed a federal crime.

Mr. Bernard was convicted of murder, among other offenses, and sentenced to death.

“I’m sure this Brandon guy was not acting like a child when he committed the murders,” said Michael Rushford, the president of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, a legal organization that supports crime victims and the death penalty. 

Mr. Vialva and Mr. Bernard were tried together. Like Mr. Brown, two of the other defendants, Christopher Lewis and Tony Sparks, were too young to face the death penalty.

Mr. Brown and Mr. Lewis, who was 15 during the crime, pleaded guilty and testified for the prosecution. Mr. Sparks, who was 16 at the time of the crime, also pleaded guilty. Mr. Brown and Mr. Lewis have since been released from federal prison, and Mr. Sparks is projected for release in 2030, according to a Bureau of Prisons database. He was originally sentenced to life without the possibility of parole.

Courts have been unreceptive to Mr. Bernard’s recent pleas for a delay to his execution. In what could be Mr. Bernard’s final days, his lawyers claimed that the government had suppressed an expert opinion showing that Mr. Bernard held the lowest level of status within the gang with which the government claimed he and the other defendants were affiliated.

The suppressed opinion, his lawyers argued, would have altered the jury’s calculation of his relative culpability. In September, the Fifth Circuit declined to offer Mr. Bernard any sort of reprieve in a case related to the claim. His lawyers brought a similar case in a federal court in Indiana, which a judge denied on Wednesday.

Among those opposing Mr. Bernard’s execution is one of the jurors in the case, Gary McClung, a 56-year-old handyman who lives in Centerville, Tenn. In an interview, he said he had some misgivings about the jury’s recommendation of the death sentence but decided not to put up a concerted fight against what appeared to be the consensus.

Angela Moore, who represented the government on appeal during Mr. Bernard’s and Mr. Vialva’s cases, has since become an opponent of the death penalty. As a young lawyer at the time, the case felt like “a feather in my cap,” she said, and though she had some misgivings about the case, she did not believe airing those concerns would have made a difference.

She later became a public defender. One morning in September, after years of not thinking much about the case, she was stunned to hear news of Mr. Vialva’s execution on NPR. Now, she is advocating on behalf of Mr. Bernard’s clemency and against what she called the “blood lust” in the United States.

“What the U.S. Supreme Court has said is juvenile males, especially who were involved in heinous cases, their brains are not fully developed,” she said. “The jury heard none of that.”





No.17 article:
The New Abortion Rights Advocates Are on TikTok

Gen Z activists have been unapologetic and confrontational, a shift in tactics for a movement at a crossroads.

In a TikTok filmed in August outside of a women’s health center in Charlotte, N.C., the uncensored version of the mid-1990s novelty rap song “Short, Short Man,” by Gillette blares: “Eenie weenie teenie weenie shriveled little short, short man.”

The camera is focused on a middle-aged white man in sunglasses, who is holding a poster depicting what appears to be a fetus with the word “abortion” printed on it. The caption on the video reads, “don’t worry, the volume was turned all the way up so he could hear :-)”

This is just one of a series of viral videos by Alex Cueto, 19, an abortion clinic defender with the organization Charlotte for Choice. She posts videos of her confrontations with abortion protesters on TikTok as @alexthefeminist, to a large audience. The “Short, Short Man” video, which was filmed outside of A Preferred Women’s Health Center, has over four million views.

More well known is the TikTok in which Ms. Cueto recites the lyrics of Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion’s bawdy hit “WAP,” while an opponent of abortion reads the Bible outside the clinic. 

“We treat these protesters like they’re a joke already,” Ms. Cueto said in an interview. “We don’t give them that sense of moral superiority.”

Ms. Cueto, who grew up in South Carolina and now lives in Charlotte, is one of many Gen Z campaigners for abortion rights who use social media to galvanize their peers. “Every day I post about being pro-choice,” said Michaela Brooke, 19, a student at the University of Alabama in Birmingham and an activist with Advocates for Youth, a nonprofit that organizes young people around reproductive health. Ms. Brooke said she posts educational resources, as well as information about opportunities to organize.

Many of these activists came of age in Southern and Midwestern states with significant restrictions on abortion. Katie Greenstein, 17, who takes nongendered pronouns and lives in Wildwood, Mo., said that they got involved with NARAL Pro-Choice Missouri, the local branch of an abortion rights advocacy group, after Missouri outlawed abortion after eight weeks in 2019 (the law was later blocked by a federal judge).

Still, “abortion is out of reach because of various barriers enacted” in Missouri, Ms. Greenstein said. They include a 72-hour waiting period and a prohibition on the use of telehealth services to counsel those who seek abortions by medication. “It pushed me into wanting to fight,” Ms. Greenstein said. 

According to an American Psychological Association Survey conducted in August, 64 percent of Gen Z adult women say that a possible change in abortion laws is a source of stress for them in 2020. The confirmation of Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative, on the Supreme Court soon after, also invigorated abortion rights proponents who fear that Roe v. Wade may be at risk.

The day after Justice Barrett was confirmed, “I woke up angry, just ready to go,” said Ms. Greenstein, whose state has a so-called “trigger law” that would immediately ban abortion if Roe v. Wade were overturned. “There is so much on the line.”

The modern abortion rights movement grew out of the women’s rights movement of the 1960s, said Alesha Doan, 48, a professor at the University of Kansas and the author of “Opposition and Intimidation: The Abortion Wars and Strategies of Political Harassment.” In the early days, activists worked on passing laws at the state level, and talked about their experiences in consciousness-raising groups, Ms. Doan said.

After Roe v. Wade became federal law in 1973, the anti-abortion movement began to coalesce, adopting the tactics the abortion-rights proponents had once used. You can’t talk about one group without the other, Ms. Doan said: “They coexist, they learn from each other, and they respond and react to each other.”

Clinic escorts — volunteers who stand outside clinics and help patients enter safely — were not widespread until the late 1980s and early 1990s, said Shoshanna Ehrlich, 64, a professor of women’s, gender and sexuality studies at UMass Boston. “That really grew up in a very powerful way in response to the increased clinic violence” from abortion foes, she said, which included the murders of a handful of doctors who performed abortions, as well as other clinic workers.

The guiding philosophy for clinic escorts has always been to not be confrontational, Ms. Ehrlich said; they have seen their role more as human shields, protecting clients with their bodies, even if not with their words.

But while escorts still by and large take a nonconfrontational approach to dealing with anti-abortion protesters, so-called defenders, like Ms. Cueto, act more as counterprotesters.

The rise of defenders mirrors the rise of anti-abortion protests outside of clinics. According to a report from the National Abortion Federation, there were more than 6,000 incidents of anti-abortion picketing at clinics in 2010, and more than 100,000 incidents in 2019. Trespassing incidents also increased significantly over the course of a decade.

And since the pandemic began, “we’ve seen an increase in harassment and attempted clinic invasions and people showing up to scream and protest and shout unmasked,” said Katherine Ragsdale, 62, the president and chief executive of the National Abortion Federation.

This is where clinic defenders and other more adversarial counterprotesters have stepped in. In general, young activists “are pushing forward with a more unapologetic voice,” said Alexis McGill Johnson, 48, the president of Planned Parenthood’s action fund.

Though Gen Z isn’t the first group to employ loud and unapologetic tactics — some older activists and writers, including Katha Pollitt, have been pushing these ideas for years — they may be doing it in larger numbers.

There is some evidence that a slightly greater percentage of Gen Z Americans support abortion rights than previous generations, and that those who support abortion rights feel more strongly about it, said Natalie Jackson, the director of research at the Public Religion Research Institute, a nonprofit and nonpartisan polling organization.

According to the nonprofit’s most recent survey, from 2019, 59 percent of Americans ages 18 to 29 say abortion should be legal in all or most cases, compared with 57 percent of the same age group in 2014. “Other age groups have not changed much since 2014,” the report noted.

What’s more, some activists in their teens and early 20s now reject the “safe, legal and rare” framing of abortion rights that was embraced by many in the 1990s, said Diana Thu-Thao Rhodes, 36, the vice president of policy, partnerships and organizing at Advocates for Youth. Gen Z activists “have really pushed for the issue as an intersectional issue. Your race, gender, sexuality, age — all of those contributing identities impact your access to care.”

Calla Hales, 30, the executive director of A Preferred Women’s Health Center (A.P.W.H.C.) in Charlotte, has seen the number of anti-abortion campaigners outside the clinic explode since 2015. She knows the history of the A.P.W.H.C. well, as her parents started the network of clinics in 1999 in Raleigh, N.C.

Before 2015, “on a weekday, we’d see five to 10 protesters, and on the weekends 20 to 30,” Ms. Hales said. In the past five years, there have been prayer walks outside the Charlotte clinic on Saturdays organized by a group called Love Life, involving as many as 5,000 people according to her clinic’s estimates, Ms. Hales said.

“In years past we have had several thousand gather for prayer and worship and celebration of life,” said Josh Kappes, the director of city development for Love Life. “This year was much less due to Covid.”

“This year, we continued our outdoor prayer walks offering masks and hand sanitizer in each participating city,” he said. “Love Life strongly encouraged social distancing and face coverings where they were mandated. We also encouraged virtual participation for at-risk family members, elderly and communities with community spread.”

In March, four men who are part of the Love Life organization were charged with violating a stay-at-home order in Greensboro, N.C. Ms. Hales, of the clinic, said it was not uncommon to see 90 anti-abortion advocates gathered outside the clinic on a typical day earlier this year when the state was much more locked down with coronavirus restrictions.

Local newspapers like The Charlotte Observer and The Queen City Nerve have been covering the clashes between abortion rights advocates and anti-abortion campaigners outside A.P.W.H.C. for years. Many involve disputes over noise ordinances. Anti-abortion campaigners have camped out on the land next door to the health center so they can “point their speakers toward the clinic while avoiding the need for a city-approved sound permit,” The Observer reported. In November, the anti-abortion group Cities4Life received a consent order from a federal judge which allows protesters to approach cars as they enter and exit the clinic’s driveway. Cities4Life did not respond to a request for comment.

Ms. Hales said that her parents “were very much of the ‘put your head down’ kind of crowd, a strategy favored by a lot of abortion providers,” which involved not confronting those campaigning against abortion. “That doesn’t work any longer when they’ve got the property next door and they’re coming in droves at a time.”

She said 2020 was also the first time a large number of people in their teens and 20s have been organizing outside her clinic. A media strategist for Charlotte for Choice who withheld her real name because she fears harassment from anti-abortion campaigners, said that since Ms. Cueto and others have been publicizing the organization’s work in providing clinic defenders and escorts, volunteers have tripled from 50 to 150.

Not everyone is happy with the new strategies, though. A handful of board members resigned from Charlotte for Choice in response to the more confrontational tactics adopted by clinic defenders this year, said Angela Blanken, 42, a founding board member who was among those who resigned.

While the anti-abortion protesters have always been noisy, Ms. Blanken said having counter-protests just added to the chaos, and made the experience worse for patients. “It’s just more noise outside your medical appointment,” she said. Referring to patients, she added, “they don’t know who is on their side and who’s against them.” 

Ms. Hales disagrees that the patient experience has suffered. “As the executive director of the clinic who is more intimately involved with the ins and outs of the clinic, that has not been the case,” she said.

Ms. Cueto believes that adversarial methods are effective because they draw attention away from patients. “We’re making sure they’re focusing on us and arguing with us and how mean we are, and not focusing on trying to shout through the bush line and telling patients they’re murdering their baby and going to burn in hell,” she said.





No.18 article:
The Once and Future Handbag

Predictions that 2020 would bring the end of the bag have been greatly exaggerated.

In a case of truly unfortunate timing, the week before the Victoria and Albert Museum’s blockbuster show celebrating all things bag related — an exhibition over 18 months in the making, one of the largest ever in a museum, with loans from around the world — was to have opened on April 25, Britain shut down in response to the coronavirus. The show was postponed.

So far, so normal for global cultural events during the pandemic. But then something unusual started to occur.

As the months of stasis stretched on, the whole concept of the handbag, that repository of stuff and signifier of personality, that accessory that had become so obsessively renewable it drove record-setting profits for numerous fashion brands, began to seem irrelevant. And not just because there were fears when lockdown began that bags could be virus carriers.

What was the point of a bag if no one could go out? Why did we ever think we needed so many of them in the first place? What are we supposed to do with all of those extra totes and purses and clutches? According to data from Euromonitor, a research firm, bag sales this year fell 10 to 28 percent in every region of the world compared to last year.

Suddenly it seemed as if, with 2020, the age of the handbag might actually have come to an end. With the V&amp;A show, when it happened, if it happened, acting as its obituary.

As if.

This weekend “Bags: Inside Out” finally opens to the public, and what it suggests is that any rumor of the death of the handbag has been greatly exaggerated.

That, in fact, bags have been intertwined with both male and female identity for centuries, and have survived multiple crises, only to return with even more import. That reports from Dior and Hermès of handbags selling out as stores reopen in Asia and life returns to quasi-normal are actually not anomalies, but part of a historical pattern.

That the news of record vintage handbag auctions at Christie’s, the dominant force in the resale market, which recorded a total of $2,266,750 during an online sale in July, including $300,000 for a crocodile Hermès Diamond Himalaya Birkin 25, may be a harbinger of the future. That the hullabaloo on social media last week about the Houston Rockets point guard James Harden giving the rapper Lil Baby a black Prada nylon duffle bag for his birthday filled with very expensive treats was a sign of the times.

“People kept saying it was the end of bags,” said Lucia Savi, the curator who put the V&amp;A show together. “But bags go hand in hand with humanity. We have always had to carry something.”

Even in a pandemic, it turns out, le sac c’est nous. Perhaps what we ought to be wondering is why.

It is impossible to know who invented the handbag, but they seem to have been with us almost from the beginning. Bags made from linen, papyrus and leather were found in the tombs of ancient Egypt, dating from 2686 to 2160 B.C.E. In ancient Greece, little leather bags were used for coins; one of the first known purse owners was Judas Iscariot, whose job it was to carry the money bag for Jesus and his disciples.

The British Museum has a gold and garnet lid believed to have come from a bag belonging to a man in the seventh century and found in the Sutton Hoo excavation. There are bags depicted in an Assyrian wall carving found in the palace of Ashurnasirpal II at Nimrud in the ninth century, featuring a winged figure toting what looks like a purse.

Bags play a role in “The Canterbury Tales,” “Pride and Prejudice” and “Anna Karenina” (among other literary masterpieces).

Indeed, Ms. Savi said her point with the show was to elucidate the living and universal nature of bags — not to treat them as sculptures in leather and cloth, but to reveal the peculiarly unique role they play in both our physical and psychological lives, and the ways in which they become part of not just the fashion record but also history.

That despite all of its iterations, there is no substitute for a bag.

Hence the show, the largest devoted to bags to be held at a museum that is not a bags-only museum since the 2004 “Le Cas du Sac” at the Musée de la Mode in Paris. (Those bag-only museums include the Simone handbag museum in Seoul; the Tassenmuseum, or Museum of Bags and Purses, in Amsterdam; and the ESSE Purse Museum in Little Rock, Ark.)

Composed of more than 250 bags and bag-related pieces from around the world, “Bags: Inside Out” is divided into three parts: function and utility (bags as receptacles); status and identity (bags as celebrity totems); and design and making (how bags are constructed).

There are famous bags of the kind that have penetrated the pop culture imagination, like the first Birkin made for Jane Birkin, lent to the show by its current owner, a collector and French boutique owner. (Ms. Birkin auctioned the bag in 1994, and it comes complete with scratches and other signs of use.) There is the Fendi Baguette famously stolen from Sarah Jessica Parker’s character in an episode of “Sex and the City” and the Louis Vuitton Miroir beloved of Kim Kardashian West.

There are power bags, like Margaret Thatcher’s structured Asprey and Winston Churchill’s red dispatch box for papers of state. And there are historic bags, such as an inro, a pillbox bag from the 19th century used by Japanese men to carry medicine, and a 17th-century purse in the shape of a frog. They remind us, Ms. Savi said, “that we haven’t invented anything,” including the turn-of-the-millennium concept of the It bag.

“They are both a very glamorous container of personal belongings that acts as a sort of secret receptacle as well as a container of memories,” she said. “At the same time, they are very visible on the body, telling people who we are and who we want to be. They embody the tension between inside and outside and function and status.”

Bags are something you touch every day — their materiality is endemic to their appeal — as well as a flag the outside world can see. As such they play a dual role as personal comfort and public communication. For a relatively small, even everyday, object, they contain multitudes.

So perhaps what should be surprising is not that bags have endured, but that this is the first show the V&amp;A has devoted to them, after shows on shoes and hats. This despite the fact that the museum’s collection includes 2,000 bags, in pretty much every curatorial department, and, according to the catalog that accompanies the exhibition, “each month, visitors from across the world leave around 10,000 handbags and suitcases in the cloakrooms” of the museum.

It may be counterintuitive, but even if we are going out less during the pandemic, we often have to carry more when we do go out, meaning the bags we choose are increasingly important.

They need to hold hand sanitizer, gloves, masks, extra shoes, all the personal protective equipment we have now become used to bringing on any outing — just as, during World War I, Ms. Savi noted, people needed bags to hold their gas masks. (Queen Mary’s gas mask bag is on display at the V&amp;A show.)

It is also true, said Beth Goldstein, the fashion, footwear and accessories analyst at NPD Group, that despite the general slowdown in the bag market during the pandemic, certain segments have proven notably hardy, especially the higher end and resale.

Charles Gorra, the chief executive of the Rebag resale site, said that just after the start of lockdown in the United States they had a week of sales larger than Black Friday and Cyber Monday of 2019 combined; he attributes the growth to the need for “retail therapy” and desire for self-care.

Ms. Savi cites three additional factors: the professional sectors that stayed solvent during the pandemic maintained an income stream even as current events curtailed discretionary spending, creating more disposable income; the fact that of all fashion items, bags are among the easiest to buy online, everyone’s current shopping destination of choice; and the behavioral tendency, in times of crisis, to retreat to the classic, putting money into pieces that hold their investment and aesthetic value.

As for investment pieces, a paper from Art Market Research published this summer noted that the market for collectible handbags — especially bags by brands like Hermès, Chanel and Louis Vuitton — has been “doing so well it outperformed art, classic cars and even knocked rare whisky off its number one position as an investment of passion this year.”

Since 2010, the report said, “the average value” of an Hermès Kelly handbag has risen 129 percent. The bag&#x27;s success has created a trickle-down effect, and now “collectors are embracing vintage pieces from other iconic brands.”

So while we may never go back to the peak acquisition days before 2020, and while styles and sizes may rise and fall with the exigencies of life — cross-bodies appear to be having a mini-moment, according to Ms. Goldstein of NPD — the theory that bags are an item of the past is equally improbable. Just as our wardrobes have not reverted to sweatpants despite the Chicken Littles crying that fashion has fallen, so our accessories will not be reduced to the fanny pack. (Ms. Goldstein said fanny packs are already out of favor.)

Indeed, amid all the hand-wringing — perhaps precisely because of the hand-wringing — Ms. Savi thinks that bags have become another kind of symbol. Not of aspiration or indulgence, not of what we have lost, but rather of optimism and hope. That to swing your bag onto your shoulder is to make a statement of belief: One day we will go out again.

And that means, she said, “we have realized we do need bags. Actually more than ever.”





No.19 article:
Fernando Solanas, Argentine Filmmaker and Politician, Dies at 84

He helped propel a new wave of politically charged moviemaking and served as a lawmaker. He died of complications of the coronavirus.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

BUENOS AIRES — When Argentina’s Senate debated the legalizion of abortion in 2018, Fernando Solanas, then a senator, argued fervently in favor of the proposed law in part by declaring that sexual pleasure was a “fundamental human right.”

The bill was rejected, but Mr. Solanas’s speech and its unusual argument quickly went viral in a nation bitterly divided by the issue.

Mr. Solanas was a consistent voice on the left, often speaking out in favor of human and environmental rights — whether in politics or in his other life, as a filmmaker whose movies and documentaries marked a new era in Latin American cinema.

He died of complications of Covid-19 on Nov. 6 in Paris, Argentina’s foreign ministry said in a statement. He was 84.

Fernando Ezequiel Solanas was born on Feb. 16, 1936, in Olivos, Buenos Aires province. His father, Héctor, was a surgeon, and his mother, María Julia Zaldarriaga, was a painter and poet. Mr. Solanas briefly studied law before attending the National Conservatory of Dramatic Arts. He graduated in 1962 and went into advertising.

That work allowed him to raise enough money to make “La Hora de los Hornos” (“The Hour of the Furnaces”), a three-part documentary about neocolonialism and political violence that he directed with Octavio Getino. Running four hours and 20 minutes in all, the film was released in 1968.

Described as “a unique film exploration of a nation’s soul” by Vincent Canby in The New York Times in 1971, the movie made a splash abroad but was officially banned in Argentina, which was then under military rule, although it received clandestine screenings.

Mr. Solanas and Mr. Getino founded the influential Grupo Cine Liberación (the Liberation Film Group) and went on to coin the term “Third Cinema” to describe a burgeoning Latin American film movement with a revolutionary undercurrent and an ambition to break free from production standards set in Hollywood and Europe.

After receiving death threats, Mr. Solanas went into exile in Europe in 1976 as a brutal military dictatorship took hold.

He returned to Argentina in 1983 and went on to film some of his best-known work, including “Sur” (“South”), for which he won the best director prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 1988.

In 1991, Mr. Solanas was shot six times in the legs; the perpetrators were never caught, but he blamed Carlos Menem, the president at the time, whom he bitterly opposed. Two years later, his formal political career began when he won a seat in the Chamber of Deputies, Argentina’s lower house of Congress.

Mr. Solanas, known by the nickname Pino, returned to filmmaking after his four-year term ended. He made another foray into politics with a run for the presidency in 2007, but he garnered less than 2 percent of the vote. He went back to the lower house of Congress in 2009 and was elected a senator in 2013.

He was appointed ambassador to UNESCO last year.

Mr. Solanas had a brief early marriage, and later had two children with Beatriz Trixie Amuchastegui. In 1994 he married the Brazilian actress Ângela Correa, whom he met while directing his 1992 film “El Viaje” (“The Journey”).

She survives him, along with two children, Juan Diego Solanas and Victoria Eva Solanas; a stepson, Flexa D’Arco Iris Correa Lopes; a brother, Jorge; a sister, María Marta Solanas; and three grandchildren.





No.20 article:
Johns Hopkins Reveals That Its Founder Owned Slaves

The university and its medical system have long celebrated their founding benefactor as a staunch abolitionist. But newly surfaced documents tell a different story.

It’s a tale that has long been repeated at the university and medical center in Baltimore that bear his name: In 1807, the 12-year-old Johns Hopkins was summoned home from boarding school to work the fields of the family’s sprawling tobacco farm in Maryland after his father, following the directives of his Quaker faith, freed the family’s slaves.

Young Johns grew up to be a wildly successful businessman and, as the story goes, a committed abolitionist. And on his death in 1873, he left $7 million — the largest philanthropic bequest in American history at that time — to found the nation’s first research university, along with a hospital that would serve the city’s poor “without regard to sex, age or color.”

Hopkins’s Quaker rectitude has been a touchstone for the institution he founded. But an important part of that origin story, it turns out, is untrue.

On Wednesday, Johns Hopkins University released new research revealing that there were enslaved people in its founding benefactor’s household as late as 1850. And while the Hopkins family’s entanglements with slavery are complicated, the university has so far found no evidence of Johns Hopkins’s father freeing any enslaved people.

As for the longstanding claims that Hopkins himself held abolitionist beliefs, it is unclear whether they rest on any evidence at all.

In a letter to the Hopkins community, the leaders of the university, medical school and medical system announced a multiyear effort to further study the Hopkins family’s connections with slavery, which it called “a crime against humanity.”

The revelation about Johns Hopkins, the leaders said, “calls to mind not only the darkest chapters in the history of our country and our city but also the complex history of our institutions since then, and the legacies of racism and inequity we are working together to confront.”

In recent years, a growing number of universities have confronted their historical entanglements with slavery. Many, sometimes in response to student activism, have renamed buildings or removed statues of slaveholders, or created prominent memorials to the enslaved people who built and served the campus.

Johns Hopkins University, founded after the Civil War by a supposedly antislavery benefactor, might seem to have largely sidestepped that reckoning, even as it increasingly acknowledged how the university (which did not admit its first Black undergraduate until 1945) has been shaped by Jim Crow and racism.

But last spring, a researcher at the Maryland State Archives became aware of an 1850 census record listing four enslaved people in the household of a man named Johns Hopkins, and contacted the university. Its president, Ronald J. Daniels, asked Martha S. Jones, a history professor, to investigate the matter as part of a broader exploration of the university’s history of discrimination announced in July, in the aftermath of the George Floyd protests.

In an interview, Mr. Daniels said the news of Hopkins’s slaveholding was “obviously extremely painful.” But he added that it was important to tell the full story of the man, citing the university’s motto — the truth will set you free.

“You want your origin story to be more than mythical,” Mr. Daniels said. “For an origin story to be foundational and durable, it also has to be true.”

How the news will land at the university or in Baltimore more broadly, a majority Black city with which the university has often had fraught relations, remains to be seen. But Mr. Daniels said he hoped that “unflinching introspection” and transparent disclosure would create “a stronger foundation for our relationship.”

Asked if he imagined the university’s name might be challenged, he said that while it was important to fully acknowledge Hopkins’s slaveholding, the institution wasn’t defined by it.

“Over the course of our almost 150 years of history, there’s been lots of scope for choice in the way in which we charted our mission, and the way in which we’ve taken the best from the bequest we received,” he said.

Few personal papers of Hopkins and his family survive. To begin fleshing out the story of the Hopkins family and slavery, Professor Jones worked with Allison Seyler, the program manager of an existing Hopkins history project at the university’s library, to dig into legal, census and other records.

In addition to the 1850 record, the researchers found an 1840 census entry showing one enslaved person in the Hopkins household. (The 1860 census does not list enslaved people in his household.) They also found documents from the 1830s showing that Hopkins and his firm sometimes sought to acquire enslaved people to settle debts.

But Professor Jones, whose scholarship focuses on Black political activism in 19th-century America, also looked at just how the university came to tell a rosy and, it appears, erroneous story about Johns Hopkins to begin with.

“The story of Hopkins’s forebears having freed enslaved people, of Hopkins as an abolitionist, suited us as an institution,” she said.

That a man of Hopkins’s wealth and position would own or trade in enslaved people is not in itself surprising. Slavery remained legal in Maryland, one of four slave states that stayed in the Union, until shortly before the end of the Civil War.

Professor Jones’s research report notes that at Hopkins’s death, some newspaper articles did refer to his and his family’s history of slaveholding. One recounted a story about his grandfather manumitting enslaved people. (Professor Jones found records of the grandfather freeing eight enslaved people in 1778, but keeping dozens of others in bondage.)

Another article noted Hopkins’s generous bequest to “three colored servants,” one of whom he was said to have granted freedom to years earlier but who had “remained faithfully in his service ever since.” (But Professor Jones writes that she has so far found no record of Hopkins freeing any enslaved people.)

In the 20th century, Professor Jones found, a new story, based on family reminiscences and scrambled facts, began to take shape.

In 1917, a former director of the Hopkins hospital, in an article, told the story about Hopkins’s father, Samuel, manumitting his slaves, which he seems to have gotten from interviews with Hopkins family members.

In 1929, the university’s press published “Johns Hopkins: A Silhouette,” a fond biography by his grandniece, Alice Thom. (Hopkins had no children.) That book repeated the story about Samuel Hopkins, while also generally depicting slavery as “a benign institution” and enslaved people as “contented and loyal,” Professor Jones writes.

That story caught on, and was frequently repeated in newspaper articles and books. And it was also one the university reached for, Professor Jones said, when recounting its history.

A 1974 article in the alumni magazine repeated that story, as did a 1976 article in American Heritage describing how “the hard realities of the working life abruptly dropped onto his young shoulders when, in 1807, his father’s adherence to a new Quaker policy led him to free all his slaves.”

The story was repeated again in 1995, in an article commemorating the 200th anniversary of Hopkins’s birthday, noting his “fervent abolitionism.” And it also appears in an article currently on the website of the Hopkins medical system, entitled “Who Was Johns Hopkins?”

Johns Hopkins’s personal views on slavery, Professor Jones said, require further research. So far, she said, she had found no evidence that he ever espoused or promoted abolition, which her report defines as “the immediate and unqualified end to slavery in the United States.”

She said it would also be important to look at Hopkins’s founding bequest — which envisioned a hospital that, unusually for the time, treated Black patients, but in separate wards — through a fresh lens.

“On its face, it’s a complex mix of benevolence and the institutionalization, in a post-slavery world, of what we have come to call segregation,” she said.

In their letter, the university and medical leaders called Johns Hopkins’s personal legacy “complex and contradictory.” More research was needed, they said, before coming to any “firm conclusions” about the implications of his slaveholding for the institutions he created.

Professor Jones said the broader project she is leading, called “Hard Histories at Hopkins,” will address how the past informs contentious issues in the present, like the university’s controversial plan to create an armed private police force. (The plan was paused in July, in the wake of the racial justice protests.)

And she said it was important that Black Baltimoreans be seen as a central audience for the research. “This is the community writ large that lives with the legacies of slavery, racism and inequality,” she said.

The revelations of Johns Hopkins’s slaveholding may be a reputational blow to the university. But the real “hard history,” she said, was borne by the enslaved, who were listed on the census forms without even the dignity of a name.

“We shouldn’t forget that,” she said. “That’s where the tragedy is. That’s why we should be shattered.”





No.21 article:
DoorDash Soars in First Day of Trading

The delivery company’s shares closed at $190 each, 86 percent above its initial public offering price of $102, in a sign of investor appetite.

SAN FRANCISCO — Wall Street loves a pandemic winner.

Shares of DoorDash soared in their first day of trading on Wednesday, capping a year of outsize growth for the country’s largest food delivery company. DoorDash stock rose 86 percent above its initial public offering price of $102 to close the day at $189.51.

That valued the company at $72 billion, including employee-owned shares — more than the market capitalization of Domino’s Pizza and Chipotle Mexican Grill combined. DoorDash raised $3.4 billion, making it the one of the largest I.P.O.s of the year.

Investors piled into the stock despite DoorDash’s deep losses and the intensely competitive market in which it operates. In the week before it went public, DoorDash raised its proposed price range 16 percent to $92.5 per share at the midpoint before pricing even higher. The pandemic has been a boon to the company, as people turned to delivery services while stuck in their homes.

Tony Xu, the chief executive of DoorDash, said the company would try not to “chase the scoreboard” and the stock market hype as a public company. “I recognize the significance of the milestone and the moment, but it is one day on this multidecade journey,” he said.

DoorDash’s listing heralds a banner week of public offerings for technology start-ups. Airbnb priced its offering on Wednesday at $68 a share, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The home rental company had raised its offering price range once, in the face of high demand, and could be valued at $47 billion, far above its $18 billion valuation in the private market this year. It will begin trading on Thursday.

The e-commerce start-up Wish, the video gaming company Roblox and the real estate start-up OpenDoor also plan to list their shares before the end of the year. The events are set to deliver windfalls to the companies’ founders, employees and investors in what is expected to be the busiest year for I.P.O.s since 1999. More than 200 companies valued at more than $50 million have gone public so far this year, according to Renaissance Capital, which tracks I.P.O.s.

Many of these companies lose money. Even so, investors have largely given them warm welcomes as they go public. Private investors valued Snowflake, a data warehousing company, at $12 billion before it went public in September. Since then, its valuation has soared to $107 billion.

“It’s been 20-plus years since we’ve seen this many I.P.O.s,” said David Hsu, a professor of management at the University of Pennsylvania. But he added a cautionary note about the enthusiasm. “At some point, we do have to look at some fundamentals,” he said.

DoorDash’s debut also shows the extreme economic disparities created by the pandemic. Restaurants, struggling to survive government-mandated closures, have increasingly relied on delivery apps like DoorDash to stay in business.

The apps, which dispatch armies of gig workers to pick up and deliver orders, charge fees that some restaurant owners have said are onerous. In many cases, takeout orders have not made up for the lost revenue of indoor dining. Chains including Ruby Tuesday, California Pizza Kitchen and the parent company of Chuck E. Cheese have gone bankrupt this year.

But DoorDash has thrived. In the first nine months of the year, its revenue more than tripled from the same period last year, to $1.92 billion. Orders surged to 543 million through September, compared with 181 million a year earlier.

Ahead of its I.P.O., DoorDash announced a $200 million pledge to various programs to help restaurants and delivery drivers. It invited a number of restaurant owners and delivery drivers to virtually attend the stock market opening bell ringing and featured them in outdoor marketing campaigns around New York and San Francisco.

Despite its rapid growth, DoorDash is burning cash. It lost $149 million in the first nine months of the year and warned investors that the pandemic-spurred growth was likely to slow down.

Mr. Xu said the company would continue to spend money to grow “commensurate with the opportunity.”

Mr. Hsu said DoorDash’s “astonishing” valuation made him think investors had overemphasized the effects of the pandemic.

“When you get to this market cap level, there are questions about where do you go from here?” he said.

DoorDash recently won a long-fought battle over its use of contract workers. Last month, Californians passed Proposition 22, a ballot measure that exempts DoorDash, Uber, Lyft and others from a state law that would have required them to treat their drivers as employees. The companies are expected to push for similar rules in other states.

DoorDash has grown, in part, by focusing on suburban markets and partnerships with large chain restaurants. Founded in 2013 by Mr. Xu, Stanley Tang, Andy Fang and Evan Moore, it survived a ruthlessly competitive market for longer than many of its competitors. This year, two players, Grubhub and Postmates, were acquired by larger rivals.

Through the deal-making, DoorDash has remained independent. It counts one million drivers and 18 million customers in the United States, Canada and Australia.

The company has experimented with different business models, including a subscription service, DashPass, which costs $9.99 a month for unlimited deliveries. DashPass has five million subscribers.

DoorDash began operating commissary buildings where restaurants can rent space and prepare food specifically for deliveries. It has struck partnerships with grocers, pet food companies and drugstores. The company even invested in Burma Bites, a local restaurateur.

The succession of tech I.P.O.s provides long-awaited returns to venture capital investors. Many of the companies going public are a decade old. Plentiful venture funding has allowed “unicorn” start-ups, worth $1 billion or more, to put off going public, and with it the pressure to turn a profit, for as long as possible.

Sequoia Capital, which has backed Airbnb, DoorDash, Snowflake and several other sizable start-ups going public this year, is expected to reap a bonanza. So is Founders Fund, a venture firm that is a large shareholder in Airbnb and Wish. And the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank, which was bruised by bad bets on the office rental company WeWork and others, could be redeemed by its investments in DoorDash and OpenDoor.





No.22 article:
Hunter Biden Discloses He Is Focus of Federal Tax Inquiry

Mr. Biden said Justice Department prosecutors in Delaware had said they were examining his “tax affairs.”

WASHINGTON — The Justice Department is investigating the tax affairs of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s son Hunter, he disclosed in a statement on Wednesday.

The investigation is being led by the U.S. attorney’s office in Delaware. It was opened in late 2018 and has included inquiries into potential criminal violations of tax and money laundering laws, according to people familiar with the inquiry. The money laundering aspect of the case failed to gain traction after F.B.I. agents were unable to gather enough evidence for a prosecution, the people said.

“I learned yesterday for the first time that the U.S. attorney’s office in Delaware advised my legal counsel, also yesterday, that they are investigating my tax affairs,” Hunter Biden said in a statement. “I take this matter very seriously, but I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisers.”

The inquiry was focused on Hunter Biden and some of his associates, not the president-elect or other family members, two people familiar with it said. On Tuesday, prosecutors in Delaware served subpoenas, including at least one that sought information related to  Hunter Biden’s taxes, two people familiar with the matter said.

The disclosure of the federal investigation seems certain to exacerbate the politically tense relationship between the departing Trump White House and the incoming Biden administration. The timing means it is possible that one of the last decisions of the Trump Justice Department could be about a potential case against the son of the incoming president, if investigators uncover enough evidence to go forward.

It also means that Mr. Biden will most likely come into office as the Justice Department is actively investigating his son, a case his political opponents are certain to seize on to try to damage the early days of his presidency.

The investigation could also complicate Mr. Biden’s efforts to instill public confidence that the department can operate independent of the personal interests of the president after it became deeply politicized under President Trump. Last week, Mr. Biden said that establishing separation between the department and the White House was a top priority.

“I’m not going to be telling them what they have to do and don’t have to do. I’m not going to be saying go prosecute A, B or C,” Mr. Biden said in an interview with CNN. “It’s not my Justice Department. It’s the people’s Justice Department.”

Spokeswomen for the Justice Department and the U.S. attorney’s office in Delaware declined to comment on the investigation. Hunter Biden’s lawyer did not respond to messages seeking comment.

The tax issues came to the attention of F.B.I. agents after they opened the money laundering investigation into Hunter Biden’s financial affairs in late 2018, under the attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, according to several people familiar with the inquiry.

What prompted the F.B.I. inquiry remains unclear. Former law enforcement officials said that though the money-laundering aspect of the inquiry appears to have died out, investigators with the Internal Revenue Service continued to examine Mr. Biden’s taxes.

By early 2017, Mr. Biden and his first wife, Kathleen, who were then estranged, owed $313,970 in taxes, and had “maxed-out credit-card debt” and “double mortgages on both real properties they own,” according to a filing she submitted in their divorce.

The next year, the I.R.S. issued a lien against the pair, who were by then divorced, for $112,805 in unpaid taxes from 2015. Those taxes appear to have been paid off by March of this year, when the lien was released.

Separately, the city government of Washington, D.C., where Mr. Biden had lived, issued liens against him in July totaling nearly $454,000 for unpaid taxes from 2017 and 2018. Those liens were released less than one week later, according to tax records.

Mr. Biden has long been an intense target of Mr. Trump and his allies over the range of business ventures he pursued around the world during his father’s time as vice president and beyond.

He was paid $50,000 a month or more to serve on the board of Burisma, a Ukrainian energy company owned by an oligarch who was widely seen as corrupt, advised a wealthy Romanian business executive facing corruption charges and invested in a private equity fund linked to the Chinese government.

Mr. Trump’s impeachment centered on allegations that he abused his powers over American foreign policy in part to damage the Biden campaign by pressuring the government of Ukraine to announce an investigation into Hunter Biden’s dealings there. The Republican-led Senate acquitted the president in February.

Mr. Biden and a group of partners — including his uncle James Biden, the president-elect’s brother — were also involved in negotiations about a joint venture with a Chinese energy and finance company called CEFC China Energy in 2017, documents provided by a jilted former business partner show.

While the deal appears to have fizzled, an investigation by Republican-controlled Senate committees found that a subsidiary of CEFC transferred $100,000 in August 2017 to a law firm controlled by Hunter Biden. The transaction was flagged as suspicious, according to the report produced by the Republican investigation, which cited an unspecified “confidential document.” A Senate aide said it was a U.S. government record but would not describe it further.

The Republican report, which was released weeks before Election Day in an apparent effort to damage the Biden campaign, found no evidence of improper influence or wrongdoing by the former vice president.

Efforts by Mr. Trump and his supporters to damage Mr. Biden’s presidential campaign took on new urgency in October after The New York Post published reports based on files from a laptop that appeared to have belonged to Hunter Biden. The Post, which obtained materials from Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, reported that the laptop had been seized by the F.B.I.

“We’ve got to get the attorney general to act,” Mr. Trump said in an interview on “Fox &amp; Friends” after the Post article was published. “He’s got to act fast. He’s got to appoint somebody. This is major corruption, and this has to be known about before the election.”

A Republican congressman, Representative Ken Buck of Colorado, called on the Justice Department on Wednesday to appoint a special counsel. “This needs to be investigated free from political interference,” he said on Twitter. “No matter who is in the White House.”

The Biden team has rejected some of the claims made in the Post articles, but has not disputed the authenticity of the files upon which they were based.

A computer repair shop owner in Wilmington, Del., named John Paul Mac Isaac has said Hunter Biden left a damaged Apple computer at his store in April 2019 and asked him to recover any data. Mr. Isaac said that Mr. Biden filled out a work order and identified himself as Hunter Biden, and that he came to his shop twice but never returned to retrieve the computer or an external hard drive on which its contents had been stored.

As part of the F.B.I.’s closely held money-laundering investigation into Mr. Biden, agents working with federal prosecutors in Delaware authorized a federal grand jury subpoena and obtained the laptop and an external hard drive. People familiar with the examination said that the F.B.I. examined the laptop but that its contents did not advance the money-laundering investigation.

Before giving it to the F.B.I., Mr. Isaac said in an interview in October, he copied the contents of the external hard drive, which were later provided to Mr. Giuliani, who claimed the laptop showed evidence of corruption by Mr. Biden.

Mr. Trump and his allies openly pressed the Justice Department to disclose negative information about Mr. Biden ahead of the election, but investigators did not make overt moves that would have exposed the investigation before the ballots were cast.





No.23 article:
Iran Is Moving Key Facility at Nuclear Site Underground, Satellite Images Show

The mysterious July explosion that destroyed a centrifuge assembly hall at Iran’s main nuclear fuel enrichment facility in Natanz was deemed by the Iranian authorities to be enemy sabotage, and provoked a defiant response: The wrecked building would be rebuilt in “the heart of the mountains,” the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization said.

Progress on that pledge, which could shield the facility from an aerial assault or other threats, has been unclear to outside observers.  But new satellite imagery is now shedding light on the Iranian plans.

 The Visual Investigations team of The New York Times has tracked construction at the site using the new imagery. For the first time, new tunnel entrances for underground construction are visible under a ridge in the mountain foothills south of the Natanz facility, about 140 miles south of Tehran.

The Times worked with Jeffrey Lewis, an arms control expert at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey in California, to interpret the new image.

“The new facility is likely to be a far more secure location for centrifuge assembly — it is located far from a road and the ridge offers significant overburden that would protect the facility from air attack,” Mr. Lewis stated in written comments.

The July explosion was not the only recent incident that appeared to have exposed major gaps in Iran’s security of its nuclear program, which the country insists is limited to peaceful purposes. In late November, a brazen daylight attack killed Iran’s top nuclear scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. 

Iran has blamed Israel and the United States for the Natanz explosion and Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s assassination, which were both considered serious setbacks to Iran’s nuclear program. 

Mr. Lewis described the clues that underground construction was underway at the site in Natanz.

“There are what appear to be two tunnel entrances on either side of a large ridge, with a pile of spoil from excavation nearby. The space between the two entrances is large enough to accommodate a facility about the same size as the centrifuge assembly building that was destroyed this summer and that Iran indicated it was rebuilding in the mountains.”

Looking at satellite images taken over several months allows for tracking changes. Even something as simple and inconspicuous as a pile of dirt is a clue.

“The major clue is the pile of spoil from the excavation that was not present in July,” Mr. Lewis said. “Iran also regraded a pair of roads on each side of the ridge leading to what appear to be tunnel entrances.” 

Allison Puccioni, an imagery analyst affiliated with the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, pointed out other telltale signs of excavations near the debris pile. In comments provided to the Times, Ms Puccioni said that between the debris pile and excavation site, the imagery showed “trails of excavated earth, lighter in color than the existing hard-packed road.” 

A flurry of activity in Natanz captured by satellites in recent months includes the building of new roads and additional excavations, which started after the explosion. Researchers from AllSource Analysis and the Institute for Science and International Security have previously identified the area and said that additional tunnels are being constructed, suggesting work on an even larger underground complex is underway.

The destroyed building was built in 2012 and had been used to assemble centrifuges, the machines that enrich uranium needed for peaceful purposes — and when enriched to higher levels, for bombs. The 2015 nuclear agreement between Iran and world powers halted high level enrichment, but Iran started amassing enriched uranium again after President Trump left the accord two years ago. 

After the July explosion, the International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors Iran’s compliance with the accord, confirmed that there had been no nuclear materials at that specific building.

The ability to see via satellite what Iran has done since the Natanz explosion partly reflects the quantum leap in such visual technology in the past two decades.

In 2002, analysts revealed the construction of the then secret Natanz enrichment facility using commercial high-resolution satellite imagery. Such sharp imagery had only become available in 2000. Back then, the analysis required finding Natanz on Persian maps in the Library of Congress, faxing an order form and waiting for weeks to receive satellite imagery on a CD-ROM. Eighteen years later, even the smallest changes at a site like Natanz can be quickly tracked by analysts and journalists on their laptops.

These monitoring capabilities can create their own challenges. Frequently collected images do not show completed construction, but work in progress. Initial interpretation of the recent changes in Natanz from October focused on a former firing range south of the main facility as the possible location for the new underground centrifuge assembly hall. However, these changes turned out to be a construction support facility used for road work and tunnel excavations.

In response to Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s assassination, Iran enacted a law last week to immediately ramp up uranium enrichment and bar international inspectors by February if U.S. sanctions are not lifted. The law also calls for the installment of advanced centrifuges at its nuclear facilities, including in Natanz.

The United States may have been aware in advance of the recent attacks on Iran’s nuclear infrastructure and personnel. How Iran responds to the newest attack could pose an early challenge to the incoming Biden administration, which has said it wants to rejoin the nuclear accord repudiated by Mr. Trump.





No.24 article:
Social Inequities Explain Racial Gaps in Pandemic, Studies Find

Higher rates of infection and mortality among Black and Hispanic Americans are explained by exposure on the job and at home, experts said.

When Dr. Gbenga Ogedegbe began to research coronavirus infections among Black and Hispanic patients, he thought he knew what he would find. Infected Black and Hispanic patients would be more likely to be hospitalized, compared with white patients, and more likely to die.

But that’s not how it turned out.

Dr. Ogedegbe, the director of the division of health and behavior at New York University’s Grossman School of Medicine, and his colleagues reviewed the medical records of 11,547 patients in the N.Y.U. Langone Health system who were tested for coronavirus infection between March 1 and April 8.

After accounting for various disparities, Dr. Ogedegbe found that infected Black and Hispanic patients were no more likely than white patients to be hospitalized. If hospitalized, Black patients had a slightly lower risk of dying.

“We were surprised,” Dr. Ogedegbe said.

The study was published in the journal JAMA Network Open. Three other recent large studies have come to similarly surprising conclusions.

The new findings do not contradict an enormous body of research showing that Black and Hispanic Americans are more likely to be affected by the pandemic, compared with white people. The coronavirus is more prevalent in minority communities, and infections, illnesses and deaths have occurred in these groups in disproportionate numbers.

But the new studies do suggest that there is no innate vulnerability to the virus among Black and Hispanic Americans, Dr. Ogedegbe and other experts said. Instead, these groups are more often exposed because of social and environmental factors.

“We hear this all the time — ‘Blacks are more susceptible,’” Dr. Ogedegbe said. “It is all about the exposure. It is all about where people live. It has nothing to do with genes.”

Among many other vulnerabilities, Black and Hispanic communities and households tend to be more crowded; many people work jobs requiring frequent contact with others and rely on public transportation. Access to health care is poorer than among white Americans, and rates of underlying conditions are much higher.

“To me, these results make it clear that the disparities in mortality that we see are even more appalling,” said Jon Zelner, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan who led one of the new studies.

The toll on Black and Hispanic Americans “could easily have been ameliorated in advance of the pandemic by a less threadbare and cruel approach to social welfare and health care in the U.S.,” he added. “Even failing that, so much of this could have been avoided.”

For example, the federal government could have protected citizens from risky work situations by providing income subsidies allowing them to stay home, Dr. Zelner said. The government could have ensured adequate protective equipment to workers in nursing homes and long-term care facilities.

Dr. Zelner and his colleagues examined data on 49,701 coronavirus patients in Michigan, hospitalized and not, from March until June. In this population, the case fatality rate was the same for Black and white patients: 11 percent.

(The high rate reflects the fact that the incidence in Michigan early in the epidemic was dominated by older people, Dr. Zelner said. And the data involve detected cases, rather than all infections during this period, a time when there was much less testing.)

A study of patients in Veterans Affairs hospitals, led by Dr. Christopher Rentsch of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and researchers at the V.A., analyzed the health records of more than five million patients in more than 1,200 facilities.

Some 16,317 tested positive for the coronavirus. Among them, Dr. Rentsch found, there was no difference in mortality rates between patients who were white, Black or Hispanic.

The investigators had expected that underlying health conditions would lead to a higher fatality rate among Black and Hispanic patients, who are more likely to have conditions like obesity and high blood pressure that raise the risk of severe Covid-19.

But in the analysis of the death rate, those conditions “barely made it move,” Dr. Rentsch said. Health disparities by race among V.A. patients, though, tend to be smaller than in Americans over all, he cautioned.

A study in New Orleans, led by Dr. Eboni Price-Haywood, who directs the Ochsner’s Center for Outcomes and Health Services Research, included the 3,481 patients who tested positive for the coronavirus between March 1 and April 11.

Black and white patients had the same case fatality rate, she and her colleagues found.

“It’s always perplexing when people read the paper,” Dr. Price-Haywood said in an interview. But, she added, by the time someone was sick enough to be hospitalized, race became irrelevant.

“If you were fragile enough to be admitted, you were fragile enough to die,” Dr. Price-Haywood said.

The four studies did confirm stark differences in the incidence of coronavirus infection among minority and white patients.

In Dr. Ogedegbe’s study, Black and Hispanic patients were 60 to 70 percent more likely than white ones to be infected. In the research in Michigan, the incidence of infection among Black people was four times higher than that among white people.

“If you were to substitute the white incidence rates for Black ones, you would see an 83 percent reduction in mortality,” Dr. Zelner said.

In the V.A. study, nine of 1,000 white veterans had a positive coronavirus test, compared with 16.4 of 1,000 among Black patients. In New Orleans, Black patients accounted for 76.9 percent of those hospitalized with Covid-19, although they made up just 31 percent of the health system’s population.

These differences are entirely explained by socioeconomic factors, researchers said.

“The larger issue is the role of social determinants of health,” Dr. Price-Haywood said. “Race is a social construct, not biological.”





No.25 article:
Corrections: Dec. 10, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Thursday, Dec. 10, 2020.

An article on Tuesday about the sale of Bob Dylan’s song catalog to Universal misstated the number of songs that he owned the copyrights to but did not write. It was not only “The Weight,” as recorded by the Band, but several other tracks associated with that group as well.

An article on Wednesday about AT&amp;T’s influence on the decision by Warner Bros. to release its 2021 movies on HBO Max misstated the percentage of customers who are worth $100 million to AT&amp;T. Every 0.01 percent of customers who stay glued to AT&amp;T are worth about $100 million to the company, not every 1 percent of customers.

An article on Tuesday about ways to help count and conserve native bees misstated a taxonomist’s affiliation. Zach Portman is with the University of Minnesota, not Minnesota State University.

An obituary on Sunday about Irina Antonova, the longtime director of the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow, misstated the day of her death. It was Monday, Nov. 30 — not Tuesday, Dec. 1.

An obituary on Monday about the actor David L. Lander, who played Squiggy on the sitcom “Laverne &amp; Shirley,” misstated the number of seasons the show was on the air. It was eight, not seven.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.26 article:
An Uplifting Update, on the Terrible World of Pornhub

We all need uplift this terrible year, so here’s inspiring news about some young heroes and the good they’ve achieved on a wrenching topic.

Young men and women who had been exploited by Pornhub as children shared their stories, their documentation and their mortification in hopes that this might prevent other children from being abused. And now, guardedly, there’s hope that they’ve brought about change.

Pornhub on Tuesday announced huge moves that could — if thoroughly put into effect — significantly curb future exploitation. I don’t trust Pornhub a bit, so officials will need to monitor this sector in a way they haven’t before.

And perhaps that will happen. Four senators, Josh Hawley, Maggie Hassan, Joni Ernst and Thom Tillis, on Wednesday introduced bipartisan legislation to make it easier for rape victims to sue porn companies that profit from videos of their assaults. Another senator, Jeff Merkley, is separately drafting bipartisan legislation to regulate such companies more rigorously, and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada (which is home to Pornhub) said Tuesday that his government was developing new regulations for these platforms as well.

Visa and Mastercard are reviewing their ties with Pornhub; there are calls for criminal prosecutions; activist groups like Traffickinghub are demanding action; and lawyers are circling with civil suits.

All this may explain why Pornhub on Tuesday announced three steps that mirrored suggestions I made in a long investigative column over the weekend that quoted the young people who so bravely told their stories. 1.) It will allow videos to be uploaded only by people who have verified their identities. 2.) It will improve moderation. 3.) It will no longer allow video downloads, which allow illegal material to proliferate.

We should all be suitably skeptical. Fake I.D.’s abound, and in September a Tuscaloosa man was charged with sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl in videos that he posted on his verified Pornhub account. And even if there is no download button, it is still possible to download using other methods.

That said, this is a big deal, and it happened only because of young people who spoke up and forced difficult conversations that government leaders had dodged.

One woman I wrote about, Serena K. Fleites, 19, felt her life spiral out of control after naked videos of her were posted on Pornhub when she was 14; after two suicide attempts, she was homeless and living in a car in Bakersfield, Calif., with three dogs, dreaming of becoming a vet tech but having no idea how to get there.

I’m thrilled to report that Fleites has been deluged with offers of housing, jobs, education and counseling, and she and her dogs have moved into a long-stay hotel with help from a GoFundMe backed by readers. One benefactor has volunteered to pay for her education to become a vet tech.

When I texted her that offer, she texted back: “Omg that’s sooo awesome! I can’t wait to go back to school! I am ecstatic to hear this …. I really really want to go to school to become a vet tech. It’s just hard going to school while living in a car with 3 dogs.”

While it’s wonderful to see readers respond so warmly to an individual story, we also need structural changes to help others and to prevent the exploitation from happening in the first place. That means looking beyond Pornhub at rivals that have received less scrutiny, particularly XVideos and XNXX. All three are on lists of the 10 most visited websites worldwide, each of them attracting more visitors than Netflix.

A search for “less than 18” on XVideos, the most visited porn site in the world, returns thousands of videos plus these suggestions for additional searches: “training bra,” “really young,” “she s not adult,” “pre teens” and “11yo.” And a search for “middle school” leads to a suggestion that one also try “elementary school.”

Folks, this is disgusting.

Most of the results probably don’t involve children, but too many do, and the site is luring pedophiles who can then upload their own videos. This is Jeffrey Epstein on an industrial scale.

The issue isn’t pornography but rape. It is not prudishness to feel revulsion at global companies that monetize sexual assaults on children; it’s compassion.

We can also do much more to support children to make them less vulnerable to exploitation. That means fixing America’s dysfunctional foster care system and tackling our unconscionable levels of child poverty.

I don’t pretend that there are simple fixes. But some combination of civil liability, criminal prosecution, government regulation, sanctions by credit card companies and banks, and international cooperation to prevent companies from moving to less regulated countries, can induce better behavior. We may never eliminate child sexual abuse material online, but we can reduce the number of girls and boys who at 14 have their lives shattered by a wealthy corporation monetizing their most mortifying moment.

*

Thanks to readers for donating $4.8 million so far to my annual “gifts with meaning” initiative. The three nonprofits I recommend support girls’ education in sub-Saharan Africa, cataract surgery to repair blindness in Asia and Africa, and help for low-income students in the United States so they can complete high school and enter college. There are also volunteering options in the United States. More information at KristofImpact.org.





No.27 article:
Quotation of the Day: Nowhere for the Sick to Go in Rural West Texas

“There will be no place for us to go if we get sick — that’s the bottom line.”

SIMONE RUBI, who owns a coffee shop in Big Bend, a remote region of Texas with just one hospital in 12,000 square miles and a surging number of coronavirus cases. quoteweb





No.28 article:
‘Welcome to Texas!’: Musk’s California Departure Stokes the States’ Rivalry

Several companies have followed the same path to Texas, which has aggressively advertised lower taxes and fewer regulations.

DALLAS — Long before Elon Musk, the Tesla magnate and billionaire Californian, announced that he was moving to Texas, Marie Bailey, a California transplant now living north of Dallas, fastened a customized license plate onto her very own Tesla, with a message that has become her ethos.

“Move2TX,” it reads in block letters, underneath an emblem of the one-starred Texas flag.

The news by Mr. Musk, who announced his move on Tuesday, in a snub to California and its strong regulatory environment, added fuel to the longstanding rivalry between the nation’s two most populous states.

California, with its steep housing costs, raging wildfires and strict business regulations, has been losing residents to other states, with Texas as the most popular exodus destination. Of more than 653,000 people who left California last year, about 82,000 went to Texas, more than any other state, according to census figures.

Or, as The Stanford Review wrote in a nod to the native Texan George Strait, “All of California’s Exes Are Moving to Texas.”

[Sign up for California Today, our daily newsletter from the Golden State.]

California and Texas — two economic powerhouses, one led by Democrats and the other by Republicans, with respective populations of 40 million and 29 million — are in many ways natural frenemies. It is a rivalry made up of In-N-Out versus Whataburger, of Disneyland versus the State Fair of Texas, of tacos versus, well, other tacos.

But as is the case in many No. 1 versus No. 2 matchups, the animosity has often been one-sided, with Texas, the wily underdog, playing the role of provocateur.

For years, Texas leaders have tried to woo companies and residents from the Golden State with promises of lower taxes, fewer regulations and eye-poppingly cheap housing — at least compared with California. In 2013, Rick Perry, then Texas’ governor, visited California and ran radio ads urging businesses to “flee” the coast. His successor, Gov. Greg Abbott, has eagerly picked up the mantle.

And there is evidence that the strategy is working.

In 2018, Apple, which has its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., announced it would build a $1 billion campus in Austin. The financial services company Charles Schwab announced a move from San Francisco to the Dallas-Fort Worth suburbs last year. Most recently, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, a spinoff of Hewlett-Packard, which has been credited with starting Silicon Valley, said this month it would move its headquarters from San Jose, Calif., to Spring, Texas, near Houston.

“I only miss Disneyland and my family,” said Ms. Bailey, 41, who relocated in 2017 from the Los Angeles area to Prosper, a fast-growing suburb of Dallas, and now runs a real estate business focused exclusively on bringing Californians to Texas.

During the pandemic, she said, she had only seen the trend accelerate, giving her even more reason to champion life in the Texas suburbs. She said she had built a 5,000-square-foot house near a crystal lagoon for about the selling price of her outdated, 1,500-square-foot home in Southern California, and that she felt more accepted for her conservative political views.

Since last year, her mother-in-law, brother-in-law and sister have relocated to Texas. And Ms. Bailey said she had seen a flood of interest from small-business owners and truck drivers who she suggested were being driven away from California because of its laws and coronavirus restrictions on businesses.

“Yeah, we have nice weather, yeah there are beautiful beaches,” said Ms. Bailey, who is originally from Orange County, Calif., but felt she could not afford a relaxing quality of life in her home state. “You feel like you’re never going to get ahead.”

One particular draw to Texas is that it has no state income tax, though homeowners often pay higher property taxes. The real difference tends to show up in costs of living.

Mr. Musk, the bombastic head of Tesla and SpaceX, does not share the financial worries that have driven many out of California. In many ways, his move is symbolic.

Recently, he had clashed with public health officials in California over measures put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus, which included shutting down production at Tesla’s factory in Fremont, a city in the San Francisco Bay Area. He called restrictions to stop the spread of the virus “fascist” and predicted incorrectly in March that there would be almost no new cases in the country by the end of April.

Texas, by contrast, has imposed limited restrictions on businesses during the pandemic, even as new infections soar.

Mr. Musk said on Tuesday that he had moved to be near a new factory Tesla is building outside Austin. SpaceX also has a launch site near South Padre Island on the Gulf of Mexico.

Speaking at a conference hosted by The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, he said California had become less accommodating to successful entrepreneurs and start-ups, comparing the state to a sports team that takes winning for granted. “They do tend to get a little complacent, a little entitled, and then they don’t win the championship anymore,” he said.

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas greeted the news with the enthusiasm of a state that revels in turning non-natives into converts who share a familiar saying: “I wasn’t born in Texas, but I got here as fast as I could.”

“Welcome to Texas! ⁦@elonmusk,” Mr. Cruz, a Republican, tweeted. “Texas loves jobs &amp; we’re very glad to have you as a Texan.”

California leaders, on the other hand, have treated Mr. Musk’s vows to leave mostly with indifference.

Confident in their state’s natural beauty and status as the vanguard for culture and technology, Californians have largely shrugged even as the state’s population growth has dipped in recent years to the slowest it has been in more than a century, as a result of decreasing immigration and a growing exodus to other states.

“You will know that California has truly crossed a line when home prices start falling,” said Christopher Thornberg, founding partner of Beacon Economics, a consulting firm in Los Angeles. As it is, he said, “there is more demand to live in California than to not live in California.”

Even Mr. Musk, he surmised, will likely spend significant time in California, taking advantage of all the pleasures the Golden State has to offer the uber-wealthy.

Mr. Thornberg said he believed that California had made policy mistakes in responding to the pandemic that might negatively affect the state’s business climate. But, he added, remote workers who have the option to leave “are sure as hell not moving to Texas.”

Critics say the growth in Texas has been propelled by the use of millions of dollars in tax breaks and incentives, an opaque, poorly regulated practice that has come under increasing scrutiny in the wake of the huge, public search by Seattle-based Amazon for a place to build a second headquarters. (Cities in the Dallas area competed fiercely, offering billions in incentives, while some in Los Angeles were actually relieved when the city was out of the running.)

The political climate, while a draw for some conservatives, has also proved tricky.

Texas lawmakers and business leaders have clashed over socially conservative measures, such as a failed “bathroom bill” that would have required transgender people to use the bathrooms that correspond with the sex on their birth certificate in public buildings and schools.

While the state’s Republican lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, pushed for the bill with the support of the governor, business leaders fought back, saying the state needed to cater to younger, more progressive college-educated workers — not turn them off with divisive policies — to keep the economy churning.

Still, anti-California feelings among Texans have been drowned out by the fierce competitiveness and sheer growth seen in the Lone Star State.

“The state is very gung-ho, always trying to attract business,” said Nathan Jensen, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin. “They take California companies as symbolic wins.”

Now, the question has become whether Mr. Musk’s loud — if symbolic — rebuke of the Golden State is finally striking a nerve, as many Californians find themselves working remotely from apartments, burdened by sky-high rents and unable to dine out at the cornucopia of restaurants its cities are known for.

“California is a beautiful state, don’t get me wrong,” said Robert Allen, the president of the Texas Economic Development Corporation, who grew up in Dallas and lives in Austin. But he sees far more value in his home state, from a diverse set of growing cities to the Central time zone, which lets companies more easily communicate with both coasts.

“I got you beat on barbecue, I got you beat on year-round weather,” he said. “At the end of the day, Texas really presents a full package.”





No.29 article:
New York’s $226 Billion Pension Fund Is Dropping Fossil Fuel Stocks

The fund will divest from many fossil fuels in the next five years and sell its shares in other companies that contribute to global warming by 2040.

New York State’s pension fund, one of the world’s largest and most influential investors, will drop many of its fossil fuel stocks in the next five years and sell its shares in other companies that contribute to global warming by 2040, the state comptroller said on Wednesday.

With $226 billion in assets, New York’s fund wields clout with other retirement funds and its decision to divest from fossil fuels could accelerate a broader shift in global markets away from oil and gas companies, energy experts and climate activists said.

The announcement came months after the fund moved to sell its stock in 22 coal companies. New York City, San Francisco, Washington and several smaller cities have also adopted fossil-fuel divestment programs, but New York State’s commitment to an even more sweeping plan is more significant, especially given the state’s centrality to the global financial markets.

The state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, had long resisted a sell-off, saying that his primary concern was safeguarding the taxpayer-guaranteed retirement savings of 1.1 million state and municipal workers who rely on the pension fund.

But on Wednesday, Mr. DiNapoli signaled that his main reason for adopting the new plan now was his duty to protect the fund and to set it up for long-term economic success in a world that is moving away from fossil fuels. 

“New York State’s pension fund is at the leading edge of investors addressing climate risk, because investing for the low-carbon future is essential to protect the fund’s long-term value,” he said in a statement.

Mr. DiNapoli said the fund would drop stocks that do not meet new standards requiring them to show “future ability to provide investment returns in light of the global consensus on climate change.”

With the plan, New York State’s fund has taken a prominent role in a movement that is growing around the world, with pension funds in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden adopting divestment plans. António Guterres, the United Nations secretary general, has urged governments, foundations and universities to follow suit.

Mr. DiNapoli, who is the fund’s sole trustee, joins other investors in concluding that energy companies that do not reshape themselves to part with oil and gas are poor long-term bets. A growing number of shareholders also seek to use their financial clout to address the threat of climate change. 

The plan is the result of an agreement among Mr. DiNapoli and state lawmakers who, spurred by an eight-year campaign by climate activists, had been poised to pass legislation requiring him to sell fossil-fuel stocks. The legislators pushed him to act more urgently. He persuaded them that a broader, more nuanced approach would accomplish more.

Instead of requiring the dumping of specific stocks, the plan forces energy companies to drastically change their businesses or face divestment. In a longer-term but much more sweeping step, it also requires all companies in the fund’s portfolio to stop spewing planet-warming gases. 

New York’s decision is a setback for oil and gas companies and industry groups. A recent slide in the value of their stocks — ExxonMobil wrote down $20 billion in assets last month — has undermined their main argument against divestment: that fund managers’ first responsibility to retirees and other investors is to maximize profits. The companies also argue that being an active shareholder is the best way to curb pollution.

But Mr. DiNapoli, who also long advocated for engagement over divestment, said a turning point for him came with what he called ExxonMobil’s “disappointing, frustrating” rebuffs in recent years to the New York State fund, California’s teachers’ pension fund and other shareholders that have pushed for a more environmentally sustainable business plan.

“Clearly this will put pressure on companies to be much more transparent about how they’ll transition away from fossil fuels and reduce emissions,” said Alice C. Hill, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who studies climate risks.

Pension funds, Ms. Hill added, are conservative investors that have been reluctant to make decisions that could be seen as political, “so for a major investor to say we’re getting out of this business sends a very strong market signal that climate change is a financial risk.”

Other major investors, including BlackRock, the world’s largest asset management firm are also pressing firms to reduce their carbon footprints and be transparent about how and whether they plan to manage the risks of climate change. 

BlackRock and others, in turn, are under growing pressure from clients and climate protesters to apply such scrutiny. Many fund managers, like Mr. DiNapoli, have also called for new federal securities rules to require companies to disclose the risks that climate change poses to their business models.

With the new plan, New York’s fund, the New York State Common Retirement Fund, is committing to sell its investments in any oil, gas, oil-services and pipeline companies that do not have clear plans to abandon the fossil fuel business. Few companies have disclosed such plans.

“There will be additional divestments,” Mr. DiNapoli said in an interview on Wednesday, adding that he was also signaling to companies that the fund could stay invested “if you’re willing to embrace the change that’s required and state that clearly.”

Last year, the fund owned about $12 billion in fossil fuel-related companies, including producers, service companies and utilities, according to climate activists’ analysis of published data. The fund currently owns $2.6 billion worth of stock in large fossil-fuel producers like ExxonMobil, a narrower category.

Skeptics warn that fossil fuel companies could foil the plan by persuading the fund that they are changing when they are not. 

But State Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat who was a lead sponsor of the divestment bill, noted that the plan included hiring experts to vet such claims. She added that she would not have withdrawn the bill if she believed the fund’s managers could “be fooled.” 

The heart of the plan, Mr. DiNapoli said, is a measure that goes far beyond fossil fuels: an economywide effort to push all companies the fund invests in — utilities, manufacturing, transportation and more — to reduce the amount of planet-warming greenhouse gases they and their suppliers emit. The fund is committed to selling its stakes in the firms if they do not eliminate such emissions by 2040.

The plan could free up billions of dollars for potential investment in renewable energy and carbon-neutral industries; Mr. DiNapoli said it could help the fund meet its goal of increasing its investments in “climate solutions” from $11 billion to $20 billion.

Richard Brooks, a senior strategist with the climate advocacy group 350.org, welcomed the plan.

“People now understand that it’s pension funds and universities and asset managers who are all enabling this industry, propping it up and allowing it to continue to pollute in communities, cause climate change and lobby against meaningful climate action,” said Mr. Brooks, whose group was one of 40 climate advocacy and retiree organizations that waged the eight-year campaign to persuade New York institutions to shift their investments.

He added, “It’s part of a larger movement, increasingly including some banks and insurance companies, to reshape the financial industry in the U.S.”

According to DivestInvest, a group that tracks and promotes the divestment movement, 1,246 institutions and nearly 60,000 individuals have committed to shedding their investments in fossil fuels. The total combined value of their portfolios is $14.1 trillion; their fossil fuel assets are only a portion of that sum since most large institutions invest across a range of sectors.

The movement to dump fossil fuel stocks began as an effort to make an ethical statement and to cast polluters as pariahs, much like the push to divest from apartheid-era South Africa. 

The Paris climate agreement, which set targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, also increased pressure on the industry. Under President Trump, the United States is no longer part of the global climate accord. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has pledged to rejoin.

Since 2012, when Hurricane Sandy killed more than 100 people, flooded parts of Manhattan, including Wall Street, the financial center, and caused tens of billions of dollars in damage, climate-related issues have gained importance in finance and politics, especially in New York.

Committing to the divestment plan in the depths of the Covid economic crisis, analysts say, reflects a confidence among some fund managers that unloading their fossil fuel holdings is their fiduciary duty, a responsibility to act in the best interests of shareholders and investors.

The fossil-fuel divestment movement has also grown on American college campuses, where it began in the early 2010s. It accelerated after huge climate protests in New York and around the world in 2019 and this year as extreme weather wreaked havoc and protests against structural racism highlighted climate change’s disproportionate impact on low-income communities of color.





No.30 article:
California Towns Rebel Against Pandemic Restaurant Restrictions

Frustrated over an order to temporarily ban outdoor dining across Los Angeles County, many elected officials have fought back — with votes to form their own health departments.

LOS ANGELES — Until late last month, outdoor dining — no masks required — was the closest thing to pre-pandemic normal for the 10 million residents of Los Angeles County. But amid a record-busting surge in hospitalizations and cases of the coronavirus, the county’s health department recently said outdoor dining must come to a complete halt for the first time since May.

This time, angry at the order and worried it would be the death knell for many of the 30,000 eateries sprawled across the vast county’s patchwork of 88 independent jurisdictions, several cash-strapped municipalities have pushed back and banded together — with votes to form their own health departments.

“It’s kind of like a mini secession,” said Raphael J. Sonenshein, the executive director of the Pat Brown Institute for Public Affairs at California State University, Los Angeles. “Their complaint is the county has a one-size-fits-all prescription.”

The discussions speak to the growing frustration over a countywide order that many elected officials said was inherently a hyperlocal issue.

While largely symbolic because there is no process for local jurisdictions to easily create their own health departments, city councils across the county have in recent days passed resolutions to do exactly that — or to annex and join a city that already has its own.

West Covina’s City Council was among the first to take such a vote. Lancaster, home to 158,000 in the high desert, followed suit last week, as did Beverly Hills. Now hard-hit Hawaiian Gardens, Commerce, Inglewood, West Hollywood and others are debating similar moves.

In West Covina, a San Gabriel Valley hub of 105,000 residents, Mayor Tony Wu called the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health’s outdoor dining ban, a three-week order that began the night before Thanksgiving, the spark that set off a state already in the throes of a major economic crisis.

“We’ve done everything they told us to do and now telling us to shut down isn’t right,” Mr. Wu said. “Look, I’m an immigrant mayor trying to do the right thing and that means a local policy for a local issue.”

In Beverly Hills, which has seen tourism dwindle and which faces a $27 million budget shortfall compared with last year, Mayor Lester Friedman said the county had “lost touch” with Angelenos.

And in Hawaiian Gardens, a working-class Latino hamlet forced to close a casino that is the city’s main employer and revenue generator, the city manager, Ernie Hernandez, said residents could not afford to eat or pay their bills. “I don’t know what the right answer is,” he said, “but shutting down again doesn’t seem to be it.”

Across the state, daily case reports have tripled in the past month, with more than 25,000 new infections reported on Tuesday. About 8,500 of them were in Los Angeles County, which now has more daily cases than at any point in the pandemic, setting daily records for nearly a week straight. On Tuesday, the county had about 3,000 people hospitalized, with nearly a quarter in intensive care units.

Gov. Gavin Newsom recently issued a three-week lockdown order, which went into effect for much of the state on Monday, that also banned outdoor dining and superseded the Los Angeles County restrictions.

The county is a freeway-connected sprawl, with the city of Los Angeles’s four million residents an island within it. There are so many invisible borders for the dozens of municipalities within its limits that motorists often do not realize when they enter one town or leave another — confusion that could be exacerbated if there were multiple ordinances and orders across the county.

Many cities in the county operate their own law enforcement, fire and other government services, though only Pasadena and Long Beach have separate health departments — and the decision-making power that comes with it. (Pasadena offered outdoor dining until last week; Long Beach, citing rising coronavirus cases, did not.)

But local mayors lack authority over public schools, transportation and public health — control that largely rests with the county’s board of supervisors, which upheld the health department’s decision.

Last week, Judge James Chalfant of Los Angeles County temporarily agreed with the board of supervisors but ordered health officials to produce evidence supporting the ban. Then, in a decision on Tuesday, Judge Chalfant sided with the restaurants, limiting the ban to three weeks to prevent an “indefinite” closure order.

Although the state ban still supersedes this ruling, health officials now have about a week to provide a risk-benefit analysis in order to extend the closure. Epidemiologists have said prolonged gatherings without masks, even outside, drive spread.

It was not too long ago when California’s elected officials — among the first to impose wide-ranging lockdowns — took pride in an approach that had appeared to stave off the coronavirus.

Then came a series of dining gaffes that undermined pleas to avoid crowds, including Mr. Newsom and others failing to heed their own rules. In recent days, businesses and officials have seen a disparity in the most recent dining ban, with outdoor film crew catering spots remaining open, for example, while restaurants a few feet away are without a single diner.

Despite more than 1.3 million virus cases and roughly 20,000 deaths statewide since March, anger is bubbling, with recent protests against the new restrictions staged outside the homes of the county’s health director, county supervisors and Mayor Eric Garcetti.

Many elected leaders said that while they had not yet sorted out what it would take to create new health departments, they were nonetheless forging ahead, with many city councils meeting this week to discuss a range of ideas, such as contracting for services in an à la carte approach.

Starting a department would not be easy — or without great financial cost.

Health departments inspect, grade and enforce restaurant safety, plus prepare and respond to health emergencies and outbreaks. Expensive to build from scratch — especially during a health crisis — they are staffed by specialists in short supply during a pandemic.

Plus, cities would need approval from the state’s public health department. Erica Pan, the state’s acting public health officer, who called this moment of rising cases “a critical tipping point where inaction and division could lead to loss of life,” said there was currently no process for approving new local health jurisdictions.

The spate of council decisions is not the first push to decentralize the county system. The city of Los Angeles proposed a health department in 2013 but shelved the idea after learning it would take up to two years to build and cost at least $333 million annually to operate, a plan that former County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky called “crazy, stupid” and “dangerous to the public health.”

The financial and infrastructure requirements were “impossible for us to implement,” said Miguel Santana, the city’s former chief administrative officer who is now the chief executive of Fairplex, a nonprofit space turned coronavirus testing center.

Los Angeles currently projects a budget shortfall of $675 million by June and is planning deep cuts. Mr. Garcetti has not spoken publicly about a new health department, and did not respond to requests for comment, but representatives said he continued to support the existing framework.

“If L.A. didn’t feel the need to have its own department, with all its power, money and size, that says something,” said Mr. Sonenshein, who has published three books on Los Angeles politics. “The dissatisfaction cities are expressing should be taken seriously, but you don’t necessarily need to redo everything.”

Rather than start from scratch, Mayor James Butts of Inglewood said, one option is regional alliances, like a collective South Bay health agency that is “focused on dining and retail.”

The South Bay Cities Council of Governments, a joint powers authority of 16 cities and communities in unincorporated Los Angeles and Los Angeles County, is weighing “annexing with a city that already has a health department,” he said.

A West Hollywood councilman, John D’Amico, acknowledged that creating a health department would be difficult but said elected leaders would keep pushing, hoping to move the county toward “sensible actions sooner to keep our community viable in 2021.”

While modifying blanket ordinances may have merits, the virus knows no borders. And with hospitals bracing for a post-Thanksgiving surge while also awaiting vaccine shipments, the wisest choice may be to exercise patience, some elected leaders said.

“Forming independent health departments on the fly, how many expert health officials do you think are out there to be hired?” asked Mayor Kevin McKeown of Santa Monica, one of the few mayors aligned with the county. “How many cities without money could hire them?”

“There’s so much coronavirus that being in a relatively open place in the company of other people is inherently not safe,” he continued. “We’ve had a tremendous resurgence in Southern California. We haven’t seen the worst of it. Not yet.”





No.31 article:
‘There’s No Place for Them to Go’: I.C.U. Beds Near Capacity Across U.S.





No.32 article:
Trump Faithful Asked to Donate $3 Million to Buy His Boyhood Home

The owner of the house in Queens wants supporters to purchase the home as a parting gift to the president.

When Donald J. Trump’s childhood home in Queens was on the market four years ago, Mr. Trump, then a candidate for president, publicly mused about buying it himself.

Now, he might not have to: The home’s latest owner is launching a crowdfunding campaign with the goal of giving the five-bedroom Tudor in Jamaica Estates to the president as a gift — once the $3 million price tag is met.

The unusual real estate maneuver seeks to capitalize on the devotion of some of Mr. Trump’s supporters, in the hopes that the same commitment that has driven them to attend his large rallies in the middle of a pandemic will also induce them to open their wallets. The sellers hope donations might also be fueled by an impulse to mollify Mr. Trump with a personalized parting gift as his presidential term nears its end.

The fund-raiser could also solve another problem that has plagued the home’s owner in recent years: an inability to find a buyer.

The house was put up for auction last fall, but failed to meet the reserve price, said Misha Haghani, the principal of Paramount Realty USA, which has represented the property in three past auctions. This most recent attempt asks contributors to purchase the house as a gift to the president via GoFundMe, the charitable fund-raising platform, “as a token of appreciation,” Mr. Haghani said.

“Love Trump?” the fund-raiser, which kicked off Tuesday, reads. “Thank President Trump by contributing to this campaign to buy his childhood home in his honor!”

The White House did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.

Even before the latest attempt to unload the property, the brick-and-stucco home was swept up by a series of speculative buyers cashing in on Mr. Trump’s political ascendancy.

Just before his 2017 inauguration it was sold for about $1.4 million — about 78 percent higher than when it sold in 2008 for only $782,500. That buyer swiftly flipped it to the most recent owner for $2.14 million at auction, more than double its value based on comparable homes in the area.

Mr. Trump already owns scores of properties, of course, and after years of toxic exchanges with political leaders from his hometown, he recently changed his official residency to Florida. The seller’s hope is not necessarily for Mr. Trump to end up once again in 85-15 Wareham Place, where he lived until he was 4 years old, but to donate it to a charity of his choosing, or perhaps install a presidential library. Mr. Trump’s father, Fred C. Trump, a real estate developer, built the home in 1940.

“Technically, he could accept the home and say, ‘Great, I just got another property to add to my empire,’ but he’s not going to do that,” Mr. Haghani said. “I believe if the president were to accept the property, he would do something with it in honor of his presidency. It’s either that or he’ll just donate it to some charity.”

Mr. Trump’s childhood house is not the only presidential home base for sale in the city: The three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment on West 114th Street in Manhattan where former President Barack Obama lived while he studied at Columbia University was listed for sale last month. The asking price is $1,450,000. (It is not intended as a gift, though presumably a future buyer can do what they like with the apartment.)

Just who currently owns the home, Mr. Haghani refused to say; the owner’s identity remains obscured behind a limited liability corporation called Trump Birth House.

But the 2017 transaction in which Trump Birth House purchased the property was overseen by a lawyer who specializes in representing overseas Chinese buyers in real estate transactions. When the pale yellow house was listed for sale that year, it had been thronged by visitors who spoke Chinese and pulled up in droves to take pictures, neighbors said at the time; Mr. Trump’s image as a successful businessman has drawn him strong admiration in China.

Shortly after that 2017 sale, a person with knowledge of the deal but who was not authorized to speak about its details confirmed that the person who purchased the president’s childhood home was a woman from China, but would not disclose her name.

For a time, while Trump Birth House has owned it, the home was offered as an $815-a-night Airbnb rental. A cardboard cutout of Mr. Trump greeted visitors, and guests could sleep in a bedroom with a plaque that noted it was where “President Donald J. Trump was likely conceived.”

But in the past several years the home has stood largely empty. Some of the only visitors appeared to be utility workers turning off the power for unpaid bills. In November 2019, it was offered again at auction by Paramount, with another stunt — the chance for observers to win money by guessing the correct sale price — but it did not sell.

This time around there are other sweeteners: The seller has agreed to donate half of anything raised over the $3 million asking price to charity. And if the goal is not met, information on the GoFundMe page says all money raised will be donated to charity. But the seller has not revealed which nonprofit might benefit, or how long the fund-raiser would stay active.

Mr. Trump is deeply unpopular in New York City, where 72 percent of the city voted for his opponent, Joseph R. Biden, in the presidential election, and where protests have been held outside Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan throughout his presidency. Mr. Haghani said he was not worried how that might affect the sale. “There are plenty of people who love him, including 70-plus million who voted for him,” he said.

Mr. Haghani has his own motivations, he added, which are not political: “I don’t want to have to sell this again.”





No.33 article:
This Sport Is a ‘Way of Life.’ In a Pandemic, It’s Also High Risk.

A number of outbreaks connected to youth ice hockey have led many states in the Northeast to restrict it. Players and their parents are crestfallen.

WEST ORANGE, N.J. — On a recent Sunday at a cavernous ice skating complex in suburban New Jersey, locker rooms sat empty while hockey players slipped into their uniforms in the parking lot.

The nearly 2,500 seats surrounding the main rink in West Orange, about 20 miles from Manhattan, were also empty, cordoned off with yellow caution tape. Instead, hockey parents gathered in the parking lot around elaborate audio visual setups, including a projection screen unfurled behind an S.U.V., to watch live streams of their children playing.

It was not the typical routine at a youth hockey competition, but it was the new reality the sport has had to adapt to during the pandemic. It was also one of the last times even this strange scene would unfold. New Jersey put hockey on hold on Dec. 5 as part of its effort to combat a spike in the coronavirus.

In New Jersey and in many suburban towns across the Northeast, youth hockey is an all-consuming ritual of the cold weather months. Players and their families devote nights and weekends and routinely drive hundreds of miles to compete in multiday tournaments.

“This is a way of life,” said Vincent Cucci III, a lawyer from Scotch Plains, N.J., whose two sons and daughter play on three different teams.

But like so many other things, it is a way of life that has been upended by the pandemic after a number of large coronavirus outbreaks were connected to hockey.

In many states, youth hockey is now on hiatus.

New York has banned games and scrimmages since the beginning of the pandemic. New Jersey and Connecticut stopped competitive hockey and other youth sports until January. And interstate tournaments in the Northeast have been suspended.

In places where youth hockey has not been halted, the normal rhythms have been tossed out the window — no spectators allowed in arenas, locker rooms off limits to players and teams subject to mandatory quarantine if even one athlete tests positive for the virus.

For many state governments, shutting down hockey is a logical step to slow the spread of the virus.

In mid-November, Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey said that officials had been hearing of noncompliance with safety protocols, including by parents, and warned that “hockey is in our cross hairs.” In some instances, parents would congregate in restaurants or bars, potentially risky places to be, while their children played.

But to players and parents, canceling hockey means giving up a cherished pastime and the chance to connect with peers when many young people are isolated at home because of remote learning.

Mr. Cucci’s son, Vincent Cucci IV, who often plays at the West Orange arena as part of a New Jersey Devils under-18 youth hockey team, described getting out on the ice as “an escape from the world around you.”

New Jersey health officials grew concerned after they connected youth hockey to 22 coronavirus outbreaks around the state, many more than other indoor sports, like basketball, gymnastics and swimming.

Mr. Cucci, a 17-year-old senior at Scotch Plains-Fanwood High School, said he understood the need for safety, but believed that the precautions teams and rink operators had taken were sufficient.

“I’m scared of losing my last season, scared of losing the last opportunity to play with friends I’ve played with since I was 8 years old,” Mr. Cucci said.

Even before Mr. Murphy’s most recent ban, Mr. Cucci’s season had been delayed about two months and was interrupted when teams had to quarantine for two weeks when one of their players tested positive for the virus.

In New York, teams have had to settle for constant practicing.

Brett Jackson, the coach for an under-18 hockey team in Mamaroneck, said his players longed for games.

“It’s a little tougher to get the kids motivated, because it’s just practice,” Mr. Jackson said.

Some teams in New York had been traveling to neighboring states to play games before those states started banning the practice.

Ken Smith, the rink manager at Terry Conners Rink in Stamford, Conn., said many out-of-state teams had scheduled games there when they could not play in their home states.

“Every local youth hockey organization within 30 miles was kind of ice hunting in Connecticut,” Mr. Smith said, adding, “That has all stopped for the time being, obviously.”

New York State officials said teams that ignored the rules and still traveled out of state to play were helping spread the virus.

“The hockey-related clusters in New York have been connected to games played in other states — showing that even when we have strong rules in place, we can be hampered by individual actions,” said Jack Sterne, a spokesman for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.

Some parents and hockey players remain unconvinced that hockey is as much of a culprit as public health officials portray.

Kristen Schultz, who lives in Livingston, N.J., and manages her son Dillon’s under-16 team, said the operators of Essex County’s Richard J. Codey Arena, the official name of the West Orange facility, were so careful that “you can’t catch a cold, let alone Covid.”

But safety practices differ from rink to rink, and some medical experts see indoor rinks as intrinsically unsafe environments.

Dr. Perry N. Halkitis, dean of Rutgers University’s School of Public Health and an expert in infectious diseases, said the way hockey is played and its indoor setting made the sport a risky activity.

“It’s really an ideal transmission vector” because of factors like sweat, spit and physical proximity, Dr. Halkitis said.

Still, identifying the source of transmissions is not foolproof, and some infections linked to hockey could have actually occurred in other settings, he said.

U.S.A. Hockey, the sport’s national governing body and a major organizer of youth leagues, has published best practices on how to play, including enforcing social distancing and avoiding contact on the ice, limiting or avoiding time in locker rooms and wearing masks.

“If you want to keep playing, we’ve all got to do this in and around the rink,” said Dave Fischer, a spokesman for U.S.A. Hockey.

Most players and parents at Codey Arena were less concerned about health risks than the prospect of giving up their season.

Marcos Trasbach, a 16-year-old from Hawthorne, N.J., was changing out of his gear in the rink’s lobby after his team lost a game. He sat on a chair set well apart from other players.

“We’re all separated in the rink,” Mr. Trasbach said. “Playing hockey, I don’t feel scared at all.”

“This is my primary sport, and I care a lot for it,” he added. “If this season ended, my hockey career would probably peter out,” he said, and he would lose “the brotherhood you get with your teammates.”

As Mr. Trasbach and his teammates left the rink, two teams of younger players had their temperatures scanned in the lobby before filing in.

Jay Butchko was sitting in his black Mercedes GLS 550 with his son Ryan, who had just finished playing. Mr. Butchko, who lives in Toms River, along the Jersey Shore, had watched the game from his car.

“The ultimate goal of all hockey parents is to be safe, and keep playing,” Mr. Butchko said. “Whatever it takes to do, we’ll do in order to keep our kids playing.”

Mr. Cucci’s last game before New Jersey’s shutdown took effect was against the Cranford Hockey Club. The teams had moved the game up before the ban started.

“I find it a little disappointing, for sure, but there’s been plenty of good that’s come out of hockey,” Mr. Cucci said, “and you have to take the bad with the good.”





No.34 article:
‘Is Austin on Your List?’: Biden’s Pentagon Pick Rose Despite Barriers to Diversity

With retired Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III’s nomination to be the first Black defense secretary, the Pentagon comes face to face with its record as a place where people of color struggle to climb.

WASHINGTON — Retired Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, who is on the brink of becoming the first Black man to be secretary of defense, rose to the heights of an American military whose largely white leadership has not reflected the diversity of its rank and file.

For much of his career, General Austin was accustomed to white men at the top. But a crucial turning point — and a key to his success — came a decade ago, when General Austin and a small group of African-American men populated the military’s most senior ranks.

As a tall and imposing lieutenant general with a habit of referring to himself in the third person, General Austin was the director of the Joint Staff, one of the most powerful behind-the-scenes positions in the military. His No. 2 was also a Black man, Bruce Grooms, a Navy submariner and rear admiral. Larry O. Spencer was a lieutenant general who was the arbiter of which war-fighting commands around the world got the best resources. Dennis L. Via was a three-star general who ran the communications security protocols across the military.

And Darren W. McDew, a major general and aviator with 3,000 flight hours, was a vice director overseeing the plans the Joint Staff churns out.

At one point in 2010, the men thought they should capture the moment for posterity since nothing like that had happened before and likely would not happen again. They summoned the man who had made it happen, their boss, Adm. Mike Mullen, President Barack Obama’s chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, into a room for a photo.

“What is this about?” Admiral Mullen asked when he walked in.

“History,” General McDew replied.

Now General Austin is poised to make history again. His ascension to the top Pentagon job would be a remarkable punctuation to a career whose breadth showcases the scope of what the military can do on diversity when senior leaders act. But the singularity of General Austin and his Black colleagues’ moment in power also demonstrates the entrenched system that has defaulted to white men at the top when 43 percent of the 1.3 million men and women on active duty in the United States are people of color.

The photo of Admiral Mullen with his senior Black directors and vice directors stands in contrast with another photo, taken a year ago, of President Trump surrounded by a sea of white faces — his senior Defense Department civilian and military leaders. Today’s Joint Staff directors and vice directors are similar: All but one of those jobs are filled by white men. The exception is Vice Adm. Lisa Franchetti, a white woman, who is the director for strategy, plans and policy — a reflection of the inroads that the current chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Mark A. Milley, has made by appointing women to jobs they have never had before.

But as the country has focused on racial disparities and protests after the police killing this year of George Floyd, Defense Department officials have acknowledged that they have failed to promote Black men, who were fully integrated to serve in the military after World War II. They have offered a host of reasons, from a lower number of Black men in the combat jobs that lead to the top ranks to a tendency by corporate America to raid the best talent, to explain why so few senior leaders are people of color.

In a series of interviews over the past two months, General Austin, Admiral Mullen and the Black men who ran the Joint Staff 10 years ago — most of whom went on to even higher levels of command — said the reasons given by the Defense Department’s top ranks are excuses.

“It’s a simple issue of leadership,” Admiral Mullen said in a recent interview. “If you want to get it done, you can get it done.”

At first glance, Admiral Mullen might be an unexpected choice to be the senior officer who would work to break racial barriers at the Pentagon. The son of a Hollywood press agent, he grew up in 1950s Los Angeles, where his high school senior class of 130 had only one Black student.

But the world opened up for him when he got to the Naval Academy in Annapolis in 1964: One thing the American military does is throw together young men and women of all different races, at least at first.

Midshipman Mullen was classmates with Midshipman Charles Bolden, who would go on to become the first African-American to lead NASA. The two teenagers had gotten to the Naval Academy via vastly different paths: Midshipman Mullen through a basketball scholarship, and Midshipman Bolden only when he wrote a personal letter to President Lyndon B. Johnson after being turned down for the Annapolis appointment by South Carolina’s congressional delegation, which included a segregationist, Senator Strom Thurmond.

Admiral Mullen’s racial antennae went up slowly as he progressed through the ranks of the Navy. He could not help but notice that the higher up he went, the whiter the Navy got, until soon there were no people of color around him. “I would look up occasionally, and it was an all-white world,” he said.

By the time President George W. Bush appointed him first to lead the Navy in 2005 and then in 2007 to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen feared that the Navy, and the military as a whole, was not keeping up with the country for which it fought. “I felt that the more unrepresentative we were as an institution, the farther we would drift from the American people and the more irrelevant we would become,” he said.

Enter General Austin.

General Austin, a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, was raised in Thomasville, Ga., the same town that produced Henry O. Flipper, who was born a slave and in 1877 became the first African-American graduate of West Point and the first Black noncommissioned officer to lead Buffalo Soldiers of the 10th Cavalry.

General Austin had helped lead the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division’s during the American-led invasion in 2003, commanded a light infantry division in Afghanistan after that, and was back in Iraq as a ground commander in 2008 when Admiral Mullen arrived for a tour. Mr. Bush’s surge had started to quell the worst of the sectarian violence that had plagued the country, but American troops were still dying and the country was on the verge of a humanitarian crisis.

It was well known among the American command staff members in Baghdad that General Austin loathed talking to the news media or doing on-demand performances for visiting dignitaries. But over dinner with Admiral Mullen at one of Saddam Hussein’s old palaces, he opened a map of Iraq and walked the Joint Chiefs chairman over what the American military was doing on every piece of contested ground in the country.

“I was just blown away,” Admiral Mullen recalled. “I hadn’t run into anybody who had the comprehensive understanding of the ground war that he had.”

General Austin said in an interview that during the dinner he was just focusing “on the X’s and O’s,” but remembers Admiral Mullen telling him “it was the best picture of the fight that he had gotten in some time.” Back in Washington, Admiral Mullen called Gen. George W. Casey, the Army chief of staff who was responsible for compiling names for promotions to Joint Staff’s top jobs.

“Is Austin on your list?” Admiral Mullen asked him.

“He said no,” Admiral Mullen recalled. “I said, ‘Put him on it.’”

By 2009, General Austin was at the Pentagon as director of the Joint Staff, the first Black man to hold the job. Admiral Mullen also appointed another Black officer, Admiral Grooms, a baby-face Navy submariner whom the admiral had been mentoring for years with public strolls around the Pentagon to make sure other people took note, to be General Austin’s vice director. Upon his arrival, Admiral Mullen told General Austin to make the rest of Joint Staff directors and vice directors more diverse, too.

But when General Austin went to the Army, Air Force, Marines and Navy asking for recommendations for high-quality candidates, he ran into a brick wall. Every list he got from the services, he said, was filled solely with white men. He returned to his boss a few weeks later saying he could not find any minority candidates.

The reaction, General Austin recalled, “was one of the worst butt-chewings I ever got from Mullen. He said: ‘They’re out there. Go back and find them.’”

General Austin went back to the services and told them not to bring him any more lists of only white men. He had learned a lesson: In the American military, if he did not specifically ask that minority candidates be included on the lists for various posts, he would not get any.

“We did a second look, and cast a wider net,” General Austin recalled, “and found there were folks out there who were supremely qualified.”

The result was General Via, who would rise to become the commander of the U.S. Army Matériel Command; General Spencer, who would become the vice chief of staff of the Air Force; General McDew, who eventually became the commander of United States Transportation Command; and Brig. Gen. Michael T. Harrison, who became the commander of U.S. Army forces in Japan.

Of those, with the exception of General Harrison, who retired after he was disciplined as a major general for mishandling a sexual assault case in Japan, all rose to become four-star generals and admirals.

On Sept. 1, 2010, at a ceremony at Al-Faw Palace in Baghdad attended by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., General Austin became commanding general of U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq. It was the start of what has become a crucial relationship with Mr. Biden, now the president-elect.

Mr. Biden was already predisposed to like the general; his son Beau sat next to General Austin, who is Catholic, during Mass in Iraq when Beau Biden was serving there. General Austin and the elder Mr. Biden would go on to spend hours together in White House Situation Room meetings discussing Iraq and the Obama administration’s withdrawal of 150,000 troops from the region, developing a level of personal comfort with each other.

Mr. Biden, in an op-ed in The Atlantic on Tuesday, called General Austin’s management of the Iraq withdrawal “the largest logistical operation undertaken by the Army in six decades” and compared it to what will be required to help distribute coronavirus vaccines throughout the United States, a job the next defense secretary will find in his portfolio. “I know this man,” Mr. Biden said on Wednesday, formally introducing his nominee for defense secretary.

When General Austin was appointed by President Barack Obama to be head of United States Central Command — the country’s premier military command, and the one that fights the nation’s wars in the Middle East — he had risen higher in the military than any other Black man except Colin L. Powell, who had been chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Now General Austin is poised to rise even higher as the next secretary of defense.

The Joint Staff director job that Admiral Mullen gave General Austin set him up for all that came after. “You’re involved in the planning of sophisticated issues, interacting with the secretary of defense routinely,” General Austin said. “People who might not have known Lloyd Austin began to know him.”

But even if confirmed by the Senate as the Pentagon chief, General Austin may find himself running into the usual hurdles promoting people of color. One of General Austin’s Black contemporaries on the Joint Staff, General Spencer, recalled in an interview what happened when he once tried to fill an executive assistant job — a promising one that would ensure upward mobility.

“They kept sending me lists of all white candidates,” General Spencer recalled. When he asked for a more diverse roster, he said, “the officer tells me, ‘Well, sir, it would look bad if you picked a Black E.A. because you’re Black.’”

Whether views like that handcuff General Austin if he becomes defense secretary is an open question. During an interview before Mr. Biden asked him to take the top Pentagon job, General Austin was adamant that senior leaders have to take responsibility for diversifying the senior ranks.

“People tend to choose the people to be around them that they’re comfortable with, and unless the leadership values diversity, this just doesn’t happen on its own,” General Austin said. “It kind of makes you believe that having goals and objectives is a nice thing, but having requirements might be better.”





No.35 article:
Ronald Lauder Gives Major Arms and Armor Gift to the Met

The group of galleries will be named for the collector, whose 91-object gift is the museum’s most significant since 1942.

For more than 40 years, Ronald S. Lauder collected knights in shining armor. Now he has decided to be one.

At a time when cultural institutions all over the world are struggling in the pandemic, the cosmetics magnate and philanthropist is giving 91 pieces of arms and armor to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which the New York institution is calling the most important donation of its kind in 80 years.

The Arms and Armor galleries have long been one of the museum’s main attractions, a gateway to culture for children captivated by the majestic warriors on horseback and an internationally renowned collection of chain mail, helmets and breastplates from Europe, Asia, America and the Middle East.

Those galleries will be named after Mr. Lauder.

“When I was collecting, I was collecting with the Met in mind,” he said in an interview. “Many of the things I bought were things the Met did not have.”

Mr. Lauder, who declined to disclose the donation’s value, said he decided to give at a time when so many museums were worried about the future. “It’s important to say, ‘We still care about institutions,’” he said. “It’s an important symbol.”

The donation, which includes funds to support gallery improvements and educational programs, features an armor made in Tuscany in a workshop patronized by the Medicis and another made in the royal court workshops at Greenwich as a gift to Friedrich Ulrich, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel — both from the 17th century.

“Ronald has had a long relationship with the Met,” said Max Hollein, the Met’s director. “He’s literally been the patron saint of the Arms and Armor department.”

Growing up in New York City, Mr. Lauder recalled being awed by the museum’s armor as a youth and said he continued to see those same expressions of wonder on children’s faces in the galleries. “The collection had a major effect on me,” he said. “I still have the excitement when I come to see it.”

Mr. Lauder began collecting arms and armor in 1976 and developed a close relationship with Stephen Vincent Grancsay, who served as the Met’s curator in charge of Arms and Armor from 1929 to 1964. “He started to get me interested in it,” Mr. Lauder said.

“I have swords dating back to the crusades,” he added. “They tell a history of various kings, fighting. It would not be as famous as Waterloo, but these were important battles of their time.”

The billionaire, who founded the Neue Galerie and collects deeply in 16 other categories — including 20th-century German and Austrian art and design as well as World War II memorabilia — said he viewed arms and armor as art.

“Some of the greatest artists and sculptors of the 15th and 16th century were working in arms and armor,” Mr. Lauder said. “These are not names that people know, but these were some of the greatest artists of their time.

“You have to be very, very good at what you’re doing,” he continued. “Remember, these helmets were usually pounded out of pieces of metal. To make them perfectly round takes great ability.”

Over the years, Mr. Lauder has built one of the leading armor collections in the world. Pierre Terjanian, who leads the Met’s department, which consists of 14,000 objects, said Mr. Lauder “has always been regarded as a giant in the field of collecting European arms and armor.”

“I knew of him long before I had the opportunity to meet him,” Mr. Terjanian added.

Two of Mr. Lauder’s pieces were included in the Met’s recent ambitious show “The Last Knight: The Art, Armor, and Ambition of Maximilian I,” which was organized by Mr. Terjanian with Mr. Lauder and his wife, Jo Carole, as lead sponsors.

As co-chairman of the department’s visiting committee, an advisory group, Mr. Lauder has also been part of the discussions about the Met’s arms and armor collection.

“He knows us well, because in those meetings we discuss our successes and our ambitions and sometimes our limitations,” Mr. Terjanian said. “He had many, many years to get to know us, and he has taken advantage of that position to help us.”

Several of the donated items fill holes in the Met’s collection and will allow the museum to present a more comprehensive narrative from the late Middle Ages through the Renaissance. The Greenwich armor’s matching gauntlets, for example, will be reunited with the armor to which they originally belonged — the now-complete outfit will be on view for six months starting early this month.

“We had unmistakable gaps where we just couldn’t show what happened at certain places at certain times,” Mr. Terjanian said. “Those complete armors can anchor groups of objects that we have had but just didn’t have much context for. It’s a very well-rounded ensemble of stories that the gift enables us to tell.”

While the group of 11 galleries will be named after Mr. Lauder, individual ones will retain their names,  including the central gallery, named after Michael R. Bloomberg’s daughters.

There will inevitably be some speculation that Mr. Lauder is trying to one-up his brother, Leonard A. Lauder, who in 2013 gave the Met his collection of 78 Cubist paintings, drawings and sculptures, valued at more than $1 billion.

But Ronald Lauder said there was nothing to this: “We both have collections in different areas.”

Mr. Hollein also disputed that there was any sibling rivalry at work. “Both of them are great lovers of art,” he said. “The museum is lucky to have two great patrons like Leonard and Ronald.”

Although the Met would not provide an estimate of what Ronald Lauder’s gift is worth, Mr. Terjanian said, “With all the money in the world, I would challenge you to find anything of the like.”

At the same time, Mr. Lauder acknowledged that arms and armor are not exactly a hot segment of the art market; when the odd crossbow or jousting lance comes up for sale, there isn’t a lot of competition.

“I’m the only armor collector,” Mr. Lauder joked. “There is no one else.”





No.36 article:
France Takes On Islamist Extremism With New Bill

The French government says draft legislation aimed at combating the extremist ideology that has taken many lives on French soil in recent years is a “law of freedom” necessary for peaceful coexistence.

PARIS — The French government, determined to combat an ideology it views as “the enemy of the Republic,” on Wednesday unveiled draft legislation to combat radical Islamism, calling the measure “a law of freedom” essential to peaceful coexistence in French society.

The law, which has been assailed by Turkey and other Muslim countries, and criticized as “heavy-handed” by the U.S. envoy on international religious freedom, reflects President Emmanuel Macron’s resolve to address a series of terror attacks that have left more than 260 people dead in France since 2015. Three such attacks in recent months, including the beheading of a history teacher, Samuel Paty, who had shown caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad to his class, have hardened positions around the legislation.

“This bill is not a text aimed against religions or against the Muslim religion in particular,” Prime Minister Jean Castex declared after the cabinet approved the draft law. “It is the reverse — it is a law of freedom, it is a law of protection, it is a law of emancipation against religious fundamentalism.”

Earlier, Mr. Castex told the French daily Le Monde that “The enemy of the Republic is an ideology that calls itself radical Islamism, whose objective is to divide French people from one another.”

The legislation would curb online hate speech of the kind that led to Mr. Paty’s killing; punish doctors who provide so-called “virginity certificates” for traditional religious marriages; clamp down on home-schooling for children over three years old; and rein in community associations by obliging them to sign declarations of allegiance to the “values of the republic” at the same time as imposing strict controls on their funding.

The words “Islamic” or “Islamist” do not appear in the legislation, but the government’s intent is clear: To get at the root of the separate culture of extremist groups holding the laws of Islam as superior to the laws of the Republic.

To its opponents, the draft law risks defeating itself. The danger of a conflation of Islam, the religion, and Islamism, a political movement, is evident. The bill could sharpen the sense of alienation felt by some, but far from all, French Muslims, who make up about 8 percent of the population. The ghettoization of Muslim immigrants of mainly North African origin in dismal projects on the outskirts of big cities is a longstanding social problem that successive governments have promised to address, with limited success.

The bill has gone through three name changes, reflecting its sensitivity, starting life as an “anti-separatism” law and ending up as a law “to reinforce Republican principles.” It will be presented to the National Assembly, or lower house of Parliament, in January.

Its genesis lay in a speech Mr. Macron made two months ago in which he vowed to defeat “Islamist separatism” and uphold French secularism, with its strict view that religion is an affair of the individual that has no place in politics. The speech was denounced as a “provocation” by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, a view rejected by many French people, who have suffered through successive attacks.

Ambassador Sam Brownback, the U.S. ambassador at large for international religious freedom, said this week that he was concerned by events in France. Referring to the draft law, he said, “When you get heavy-handed, the situation can get worse.”

France is unlikely to be much concerned by this view from a representative of the outgoing Trump administration. President Trump’s so-called “Muslim ban,” barring the entry of foreign nationals from seven Muslim-majority countries, was condemned widely in France and around the world.

Mr. Macron, facing an election 18 months from now, has been tacking to the political right, where, with the left in tatters, the center of gravity in French politics appears to lie. His tough line on Islamism and the introduction of a much-contested security bill form part of this strategic evolution.

In his October speech, Mr. Macron conceded that the French state had suffered from “its own form of separatism,” in failing to address the marginalization of some Muslims in France. He vowed to right this wrong, but there has been scant follow-up.

Mr. Castex, the prime minister, told reporters that France would “build more social housing, better distributed throughout the territory in order to break with the logic of ghettos.” That promises to be a long process with an outcome as uncertain as the attempt to legislate away the seeds of extremist Islamism.





No.37 article:
More Men Reach for Sewing Machines

Growing up in foster homes, Norris Dánta Ford, a fashion designer, cleverly used clothes to impress his future parents, dressing himself and his sister up in multiple outfits to show how stylish they were. Realizing the confidence that can come from clothes, Mr. Ford, 34, built a career as a stylist, working with celebrities including Prince and Matthew McConaughey, before realizing the creative potential in making his own garments. Now a men&#x27;s wear pattern designer and online sewing teacher in Atlanta, he is at the forefront of a new and growing movement of men embracing home sewing.

Sewists (the increasingly popular gender-neutral term) have long worked to shake the old-fashioned housewife imagery often associated with their hobby. Collective creative efforts ranging from the AIDS Memorial Quilt to knitting pussy hats have moved the home arts into the political and public sphere. And with DIYers able to show their stuff on platforms like Pinterest and Instagram, sewing and other handicrafts are surging in popularity.

Quarantine has accelerated this trend, with what CNN reports is a significant rise in sewing machine sales (and not just to make face masks). In lieu of traditional crafting circles, makers are connecting on social media to build community and promote diversity and inclusiveness: #vintagestylenotvintagevalues is a popular hashtag, with retro-style sewists disavowing regressive gender politics and racism.

Within these groups are an increasing number of men making clothes not only to break traditional gender stereotypes but also advocate for body acceptance, racial justice and more sustainable lifestyles.

Mr. Ford, who has over 37,000 Instagram followers, started sewing after he began dating his wife, Mimi Goodwin (commonly known as Mimi G), a well-known sewing blogger, creating eclectic garments in a retro streetwear meets business casual style. He quickly realized the limited offerings of men’s sewing patterns: While women’s patterns span vintage reproductions to the latest runway trends, men’s patterns are largely limited to a narrow range of classic silhouettes and many, many pajamas.

Working with the major pattern company Simplicity, Mr. Ford drafted and released his own patterns based on what he thought regular folks would want to wear. He and Ms. Goodwin also own SewItAcademy, an online sewing school.

Still, he is often the only man in a craft store. “The sewing notions, the tools, a lot of it is pink and girlie,” Mr. Ford said. “It’s not a comforting environment for the average guy.” So he started the hashtag #dopemensew, and a Facebook group with around 200 members, to promote the accomplishments of male sewists. “With social media, if you see a guy sewing and you see a clean suit or nice shirt, a guy’s first thought is, ‘Oh man that’s dope. Where can I buy that?’” he said, “And then they look and be like, ‘Oh he made it.’ Come on, you can make that.”

One regular user of the hashtag is Brad Schultz, 35, a first-grade teacher in Gainesville, Fla., who has sewn his own colorful, trend-driven clothes for over a decade. While he enjoys showing his students his creations, Mr. Schultz has no local friends who also sew. He remembered standing out at a sewing convention filled with women in Texas 10 years ago. More recently he has been able to meet fellow male sewists online.

“It’s the same feeling I get when I visit a bigger city, like, there’s more out there,” Mr. Schultz said. “I don’t feel as confined because I know that Instagram opens those doors and it allows me to connect and share.”

Often adapting women’s patterns to his measurements because they are generally more fashionable, Mr. Schultz said that he enjoys making clothes for the perfect fit that is difficult to find in commercial pieces.

“On one hand, the ability to sew and create whatever style I want, in the size I need, gives a huge amount of freedom,” he wrote in an email. “When I am making something I don’t feel as confined or affected by styles ‘meant’ for one gender or the other.”

Independent pattern companies are increasingly making men’s and unisex patterns. In April, Reese Cooper, a designer in Los Angeles, introduced a $98 kit to recreate his popular utilitarian-style coat, which sold out quickly. Mr. Cooper has also offered patches and DIY tie-dye T-shirt kits.

But mainstream sewing companies have moved slowly to market to men. Mr. Ford thinks there might be many men who sew, but don’t publicly share their creations, since the perception that this is “women’s work” has lingered.

Going back to the Middle Ages, men and women in Europe were both part of sewing trades, particularly when it came to embroidering garments for royalty and clergy, according to Clare Hunter, a textile artist and author of “Threads of Life: A History of the World Through the Eye of a Needle.” The Black Death pandemic wiped out much of their wealthy clientele, leaving the few jobs left to men who organized gender-exclusive guilds. It was mostly men who benefited from the development of eastern travel routes and new trade in silk and other fine textiles.

While men made luxurious garments for the court, women worked in more practical cottons and linens. With the advent of the sewing machine and industrialized clothing production in the 19th century, women, particularly immigrants, often took low paying factory jobs while male designers were at the helm of the first modern fashion houses.

Sewing and needlework were increasingly taught to girls in schools, becoming central to the concept of homemaking, said Sarah Gordon, author of “Make it Yourself: Home Sewing, Gender, and Culture, 1890-1930.” “The sewing training conveyed not only that this is a way to be a woman and a mother, but this is a way to be an American,” Ms. Gordon said.

By the 1920s, the rising availability of commercial garments decreased the demand for home sewing and consequently the value associated with it.

And as more women entered the work force, they no longer needed nor had the time to learn these skills. Home economics, which included sewing and other domestic arts, was increasingly left out of school curriculum. Over time, the skill of the craft became marginalized as market-driven fashion cycles intensified, with designs quickly going from runways to fashion retails within days.

Joe Ando-Hirsh, a sewist and actor in New York who is in his 20s, thinks this disconnection between the technical process and final garment has been further strengthened by the commercialization of fashion week, where the focus is largely on documenting the shows and celebrities and not what goes into making the collection. With TikTok, Mr. Ando-Hirsh tries to give sewing modern clout.

He was planning his senior fashion show at the Fashion Institute of Technology and organizing a summer internship when coronavirus hit. Mr. Ando-Hirsh moved from Brooklyn to his parents’ house on Long Island, setting up a studio in their garage. His girlfriend Niamh Adkins, a model, suggested he make a TikTok profile about sewing. On March 14, he shared the process of sewing a red jacket with heart details for her birthday. In the months since, he has gained over 800,000 followers, and also started posting tutorials on YouTube.

“I’m happy that these videos are giving some kids permission to pursue what they want to do, ”Mr. Ando-Hirsh said, “because there’s so many people who comment saying like, ‘Man I always had thought about doing fashion but I went to med school instead and I really regret it.’”

Currently inspired by mixing the cream colors of desert environments with the oversized, masculine style of 1970s Wall Street, Mr. Ando-Hirsh takes custom orders and hopes to start his own business focusing on unisex fashion. He hopes to appeal to younger generations that are more fluid with their clothing choices and particularly men who are increasingly willing to take fashion risks, experimenting with color and more form fitting styles.

“All of that is changing right now,” he said, “I think aside from the pandemic, it’s a really good and interesting time to be a designer because there’s more people out there who are open to what you’re doing.”

Brandon Hayden, 24, a sewist in Atlanta who runs Happily Dressed, a wellness brand, also has this mind-set. Mr. Hayden has a fraternal twin and wanted to distinguish himself by wearing thrifted outfits that mixed more masculine and feminine styles. Sewing enables him to envision garments beyond the narrow fashion choices for men, and also take a stand against environmentally damaging fast fashion cycles. He thrifts most of his fabrics, often using curtains, tablecloths and other unexpected materials: Upholstery fabric with safari animals became a cropped jacket and a Carhartt denim coat was transformed into a chain bag.

“Sewing has shown me that you can do whatever you put your mind to and not only that: the praise for your individuality and not having to spend an arm and a leg just to keep up with the trends,” Mr. Hayden said. “You become your own trend, which I think is the best way to live your life.”

His YouTube tutorials range from a tiered dress to a loose romper to a vest and pants set. This summer, he raffled off two sewing machines, with entries based on participating in the voting process or going to a protest, designating one for a person of color.

“Being a minority in America, it’s hard to feel capable when popular opinion doesn’t always portray people who look like you as capable,” said Mr. Hayden, who is Black. “Being able to sell and create things for a fraction of the price that they cost opened my mind to how boxed in other people’s opinions can be about who you can be, whether it’s skin color, race or gender.”

In recent months, sewists and other creatives formed Black Makers Matter, a coalition intended to transform the sewing community. Members have met with top sewing brands to discuss lack of diversity and highlight Black creators on their social media pages, including Michael Gardner, 36, a sewist in Philadelphia who for the last six years has dedicated his free time to making clothes for his daughter Ava, sharing his creations on the website and Instagram account Daddy Dressed Me by Michael Gardner.

Mr. Gardner said his own father was absent growing up, and that he was inspired by his sister to start sewing outfits for Ava when she was three, refashioning adult garments to fit her. Ava now helps select fabrics and style photo shoots. Mr. Gardner said sewing has become a way for them to bond, and builds her confidence, including after she experienced bullying at school. He said that other students didn’t believe her when she said that her father made her clothes and did her hair.

“For her it’s kind of all she knows, so she thinks other dads are doing it too,” he said. “But seeing her be proud about it, I just usually have a big smile on my face.”

Mr. Gardner recently sewed a blue sequined suit for Ava’s 9th birthday and a full set of outfits for the family to wear for his engagement to his fiancée. Despite having sewn over 200 garments for Ava, he’s just starting to make clothes for himself, and while he originally dedicated his social media to his relationship with Ava, he has increasingly included his perspective as a male sewist. He was recently named a brand ambassador for Janome, a sewing machine company.

And through #dopemensew, he has been connecting with beginner sewists, including one who bought a machine during quarantine and just made his first button-down shirt. “His mom actually DMed me when she saw the post where I shared him,” Mr. Gardner said, “and was like, ‘That’s my son. I’m so proud.’”





No.38 article:
Trump and Friends Got Coronavirus Care Many Others Couldn’t

Rudolph W. Giuliani became the latest in President Trump’s inner circle to boast about the treatment he received for Covid-19, as hospitals across the country ration care.

WASHINGTON — Ben Carson, Chris Christie and Donald J. Trump are not the sturdiest candidates to conquer the coronavirus: older, in some cases overweight, male and not particularly fit. Yet all seem to have gotten through Covid-19, and all have gotten an antibody treatment in such short supply that some hospitals and states are doling it out by lottery.

Now Rudolph W. Giuliani, the latest member of President Trump’s inner circle to contract Covid-19, has acknowledged that he received at least two of the same drugs the president received. He even conceded that his “celebrity” status had given him access to care that others did not have.

“If it wasn’t me, I wouldn’t have been put in a hospital frankly,” Mr. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, told WABC radio in New York. “Sometimes when you’re a celebrity, they’re worried if something happens to you they’re going to examine it more carefully, and do everything right.”

Mr. Giuliani’s candid admission once again exposes that Covid-19 has become a disease of the haves and the have-nots. The treatment given to Mr. Trump’s allies is raising alarms among medical ethicists as state officials and health system administrators grapple with gut-wrenching decisions about which patients get antibodies in a system that can only be described as rationing.

“We should not have Chris Christie and Ben Carson — and in the case of Carson with intervention by the president — get access,” said Arthur Caplan, a medical ethicist who works with drug companies on how to ration scarce medicines, referring to the secretary of housing and urban development’s admission that the president “cleared” him for the therapy. “That is not the way to secure public support for difficult rationing systems.”

The treatments — a monoclonal antibody developed by Eli Lilly and a cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies developed by Regeneron — won emergency use authorization, or an E.U.A., from the Food and Drug Administration last month for outpatients with “mild to moderate” disease who are at high risk for progressing to severe disease or for being hospitalized.

With cases soaring, the pool of potential patients is vast.

“One of the challenges is the E.U.A. criteria really are so broad, it could be half of the people with Covid could qualify, but there is clearly not enough,” said Erin Fox, the senior pharmacy director for University of Utah Health, who has helped her state draft criteria to determine who is eligible for the drugs. “Unfortunately, that leaves each hospital or each state to develop their own rationing criteria.”

Even some top officials at the F.D.A. — both career employees and political appointees — have privately expressed concern in recent months that people with connections to the White House appeared to be getting access to the antibody treatments, according to three senior administration officials.

Mr. Giuliani, 76, appeared unaware of the scarcity issues, telling interviewers that politicians have taken masks and business closures too far now that Covid-19 is “a treatable disease.”

In fact, the antibody treatments are so scarce that officials in Utah have developed a ranking system to determine who is most likely to benefit from the drugs, while Colorado is using a lottery system. Dr. Matthew Wynia, director of the Center of Bioethics and Humanities at the University of Colorado, said that giving the powerful access was patently unfair.

“That’s one of the reasons why we decided that we would allocate this only through the state and only through this random allocation process,” he said, “so that no one could get a leg up by virtue of their special connections.”

And there are other complicating factors keeping many people from getting the therapies as well. The infusions must be administered in outpatient settings, but infusion centers, which also care for immune-suppressed cancer patients, are loath to treat people who have an infectious disease. And many emergency rooms are so overrun that they do not have the space.

In Utah, Dr. Fox said her hospital had shipped much of the supply of antibodies to rural hospitals, which had more room. Both she and Dr. Wynia in Colorado expressed concern that the therapies might not be distributed equitably across racial and ethnic lines, with hard-hit minority communities not getting their fair share.

The scarcity is such a problem that the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine is holding a session next week to help medical professionals sort their way through rationing questions.

“We’ve been trying to get the word out so that as patients might get a positive test they could get information that they might qualify for treatment, but that only works for people with a lot of resources,” Dr. Fox said.

Politicians are not the only ones with resources getting access.

In an interview on Wednesday, one prominent businessman, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid harming his reputation, described his aggressive efforts to track down the Regeneron treatment — including calling friends who were hospital executives and hospital donors — after he tested positive last week.

Eventually he was directed to an emergency room in his city, which was expecting him. He was given an infusion of the drug on Monday. He is feeling much better, he said.

Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Christie, a longtime friend of his and former New Jersey governor, got the antibodies before they were approved by the F.D.A. Dr. Caplan, the medical ethicist, said he had no problem with Mr. Trump, 74, getting the therapy — he is, after all, the president, “a special person unto him- or herself.”

But Mr. Christie’s access appeared to be extraordinary. Mr. Christie, 58, was offered participation in a Regeneron clinical trial but turned it down, a person familiar with his treatment said, fearing he might receive a placebo. Instead, he received the Eli Lilly treatment. He is overweight and has asthma, and thus may have been a good candidate, Dr. Caplan said, though he wondered if similarly situated patients would have gotten the drug.

Dr. Carson, 69, got the Regeneron cocktail after it was approved, then took to Facebook last month to say he was “desperately ill” with the coronavirus until the president intervened.

“President Trump was following my condition and cleared me for the monoclonal antibody therapy that he had previously received, which I am convinced saved my life,” he wrote, adding that “we must prioritize getting comparable treatments and care to everyone as soon as possible.”

Mr. Giuliani’s treatment is less clear. Calling into ABC Radio from his hospital bed on Tuesday, he said specifically that he had received two drugs — remdesivir, which has F.D.A. approval for treatment of Covid-19, and dexamethasone, a steroid.

But he also said he had received the same treatment “cocktail” as the president: “Exactly the same, his doctor sent me here; he talked me into it,” Mr. Giuliani said of Mr. Trump’s physician, adding, “The minute I took the cocktail yesterday, I felt 100 percent better. It works very quickly, wow.”

The therapies are being allocated by the Department of Health and Human Services to states and jurisdictions based, the department’s website says, on a “percentage of the country’s total number of confirmed Covid-19 patients and the total number of confirmed hospitalized patients during a seven-day reporting period.”

California, for example, has been allocated 17,760 doses of the Eli Lilly therapy and 5,728 doses of the Regeneron cocktail (the Eli Lilly drug is in greater supply). Maine, with many fewer people and Covid-19 cases, has been allocated 330 and 98 doses of those therapies.

Health Secretary Alex M. Azar II told reporters on Wednesday that so far, 278,000 doses of the two therapies have been allocated. There were almost that many coronavirus cases (220,225) diagnosed in the United States on Tuesday alone.

Once state and local health agencies determine which hospitals or medical facilities should get the drugs, they are shipped out by a third-party distributor. Then it is up to health care providers to figure out what to do with them. Dr. Peter L. Slavin, the president of Massachusetts General Hospital, said in an interview Tuesday that access there would be by lottery.

“The notion that we are going to be able to treat a significant percentage of the people who qualify for the drug with the drug — it’s not going to happen,” he said.





